---

title: Identifying social network accounts belonging to the same user
abstract: A system and method for determining matching pairs between social networks is disclosed. The system comprises a matching module that includes an account retrieval engine, candidate pairing module, a match determination module, a social network engine, a personalizing engine and a graphical user interface engine. The candidate pairing module generates candidate pairs of accounts from different social networks that may represent the same user. The match pairing module generates scores for the pairs. The match determination module determines a subset of the pairs that most likely represent the same users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09098819&OS=09098819&RS=09098819
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09098819
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121018
---
The specification relates to identifying social network accounts belonging to the same user. In particular the specification relates to using known social network accounts to identify additional social network accounts associated with the same user.

Many users choose to have accounts on multiple social networks. Many social networks provide a feature to the user for explicitly connecting one account on a social network to another account on another social network. By connecting the accounts the user increases the social circle of each account and an enhanced user experience may be provided to the user. However many users do not connect their accounts on social networks for example because they are new to a social network or are unaware that there is a mechanism for connecting their accounts. Thus the enhanced user experience may not be provided to the users who do not have their accounts connected.

In general one innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this disclosure may be embodied in methods that include receiving social data associated with a first user from a first social network and from a second social network the social data including the first user s contacts and known matching pairs between the first and second social network generating first candidate pairs from the contacts and the known matching pairs determining a first score for each of the first candidate pairs determining matching accounts from the first candidate pairs based on the first score adding the matching accounts to the known matching pairs generating second candidate pairs from the contacts and the known matching pairs determining a second score for each of the second candidate pairs determining matching accounts from the second candidate pairs based on the second score and adding the matching accounts to the known matching pairs until a number of matching accounts falls below a threshold.

These and other implementations may each optionally include one or more of the following features. For instance the operations further include subsequent to adding the matching accounts to the known pairs performing the generating of the first candidate pairs determining the score determining the matching accounts and adding the matching accounts to the known matching pairs until a number of matching accounts falls below a threshold. In another instance the operations include generating a first set of pairs for the first social network that is uniquely identified by a first contact identifier for each contact generating a second set of pairs for the second social network that is uniquely identified by a second contact identifier for each contact joining account identifiers from the known matching pairs with the first contact identifiers from the first set of pairs to form a first joined result joining account identifiers from the known matching pairs with the second contact identifiers from the second set of pairs to form a second joined result merging the first joined result with the second joined result to form a set of quadruplets and identifying the candidate pairs from the set of quadruplets. In another instance generating the first candidate pairs further comprises generating a first set of pairs by pairing a first account identifier from the first social network with first contact identifiers from the second social network for each pair in the first set of pairs generating a second set of pairs by pairing a second account identifier for the second user in the pair from the second social network with second contact identifiers from the first social network and generating candidate pairs by grouping the set of pairs according to account identifiers for the second social network.

In other instances determining the matching account further comprises for each second social network account identifying the candidate pairs containing a first social network account and selecting a top N highest scored first candidate pairs discarding all the other first candidate pairs containing the second social network account for each first social network account identifying the remaining first candidate pairs containing the second social network account and selecting the top N highest scored first candidate pairs. In other instances determining the matching account further comprises constructing a bipartite graph with nodes representing first social network accounts on a first side and second social network accounts on a second side computing a maximum weight bipartite matching in the graph and identifying edges resulting from the maximum weight as known matching accounts.

In another instance the operations further include identifying that the first user is connected to a second user in the first social network and generating a suggestion for the first user to create a connection with the second user in the second social network based on the known matching pairs. In other instances the operations further include generating a suggestion for the first user associated with the first social network to associate the second social network with the first social network. In other instances the operations further include receiving a query associated with a first user from a server retrieving search results from other users that are connected to the first user in the first and second social networks and transmitting the search results to the server wherein the server associates the search results with content generated by the server. In some instances the search results are webpages that match the query. In other instances the features further include the social data including user profile information for each candidate and wherein the score is based on a similarity of user profile information in the first and second social networks.

The subject matter described in this disclosure advantageously provides methods and systems for identifying accounts of different social networks that belong to the same users. The identified accounts may be used in a suggestion for connecting the accounts. Also with more connections known between the social networks a user searching for content may be provided with more relevant content that friends provide on the social networks.

A system and method for identifying social network accounts belonging to the same user are described below.

The network can be a conventional type wired or wireless and may have any number of configurations such as a star configuration token ring configuration or other configurations. In some instances the network is any type of data network. For example the network may be a 3G or 4G network. Furthermore the network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and or any other interconnected data path across which multiple devices may communicate. In some instances the network may be a peer to peer network. The network may also be coupled to or includes portions of a telecommunications network for sending data in a variety of different communication protocols. In some instances the network includes Bluetooth communication networks or a cellular communications network for sending and receiving data such as via short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP email etc. In some instances the network can be a combination of one or more of the different network types described above.

The social network server is coupled to the network via signal line and comprises a matching module and storage for a social graph . The matching module maintains a social network on the social network server identifies social network accounts for a user stored on other social network servers and performs actions in response to the identification such as suggesting that the user s connections follow the user on the other social networks. The social network may be representative of one social network or there may be multiple social networks coupled to the network each having its own social network server and social graph . For example a first social network can be directed to business networking a second social network can be centered on academics a third social network can be directed to dating etc. A social network is any type of social structure where the users are connected by a common feature. The common feature includes friendship family work an interest etc. Other examples of a social network may include photo websites blog feeders blogs micro blogs personal websites forums and rating websites.

The social graph is a mapping of all users for example users . . . in a social network and how they are related to each other. Additionally a social graph may define links between an account on a first social network and an account on a second social network. The links may be explicitly generated to indicate that the two accounts represent the same user . For example users . . . may have accounts for any number of social networks provided by social network servers . . . . A user that has an account for a first social network may provide information to the first social network that the user also has another account on a second social network. The information may include user or account identification information a uniform resource locator and or social network name for example a handle . A social network application may store the information in social graph or as part of a user profile.

The user devices . . . in are used by way of example. While illustrates two user devices . . . the disclosure applies to any system architecture having one or more user devices . . . . Furthermore while only one network is coupled to the user devices the social network servers the search server and the third party server in practice any number of networks can be connected to the entities. Additionally while only one search server and third party server are shown the system could include multiple search servers and third party servers .

In some instances at least a part of the matching module may be stored on a user device which is connected to the network via signal line . For example the matching module can be a thin client application that retrieves information from the matching module on the social network server and displays the information on the user device . The user interacts with the user device via signal line . The user device . . . is any computing device. For example the user device . . . can be a personal computer PC a cell phone e.g. a smart phone a feature phone etc. a tablet computer or tablet PC a laptop etc. In some instances the user device . . . is a smart phone having a touch screen and the user . . . interacts with the smart phone via the touch screen.

The search server is connected to the network via signal line and includes a search engine for indexing multiple sources of content. For example the search engine includes indices for web pages images information and other types of files present on the Internet. The search engine collects parses and stores data to facilitate information retrieval. The search engine receives a search query and returns search results that match the search query. In some instances where the users consent to the use of such data the search engine incorporates information from the matching module into the search results. For example the matching module on the social network server includes an application programming interface API for transmitting social network account information in response to a request from the search engine stored on the search server . The search engine queries the matching module for social network account information to include in search results. For example a first user submits a search query to the search engine . The search engine retrieves search results that match the search query. The search engine also queries the matching module for social network account information that matches the first user s search query for example posts made by users that share a first degree connection with the first user. The search engine combines the social network account information with the search results so that the first user can see subject to the other users consent for example whether other users in the social network approve of a website have checked in at a particular location have posted images of an activity etc.

A third party server which is connected to the network via signal line is a computing device or system for providing various computing functionalities services and or resources to the other entities of the system . In one instance the third party server may be a server hosting a website module operable to provide the computing functionalities services and or resources and to send data to and receive data from the other entities of the network . For example the website module generates a website on a topic including for media distribution e.g. video music etc. business services news or any combination of the foregoing services. In some instances the website module may be an electronic encyclopedia that receives a search query and returns results in the electronic encyclopedia. In instances where the user consents to the use of such data the website module incorporates the social network account information into the website. For example with regard to the encyclopedia example above the website module receives a request from a first user for an entry about container gardening. The website module queries the matching module to receive information about a second user that is connected with the first user that wrote a micro blog post about her container garden. The matching module provides the information to the website module which incorporates the information into the website for example by including the name of the second user and an excerpt of the micro blog post on the website.

The matching module is code and routines for identifying social network accounts belonging to the same user . In some instances the matching module is implemented using hardware such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In other instances the matching module may be implemented using a combination of hardware and software. The matching module is described below in more detail with reference to .

Referring now to the matching module is shown in more detail. is a block diagram of a computing device that includes the matching module a processor a memory a communication unit and storage . In one instance the computing device is a social network server . In other instances the computing device is a user device a search server or a third party server .

The processor comprises an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and provide electronic display signals to a display device. The processor is coupled to the bus for communication with the other components via signal line . Processor processes data signals and may comprise various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although only a single processor is shown in multiple processors may be included. The processing capability may be limited to supporting the display of images and the capture and transmission of images. The processing capability might be enough to perform more complex tasks including various types of feature extraction and sampling. It will be obvious to one skilled in the art that other processors operating systems sensors displays and physical configurations are possible.

The memory stores instructions and or data that may be executed by processor . The memory is coupled to the bus for communication with the other components via signal line . The instructions and or data may comprise code for performing any and or all of the techniques described herein. The memory may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory device known in the art. In one instance the memory also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media such as a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device known in the art for storing information on a more permanent basis.

The communication unit receives data from the user devices the search server the third party server and or the social network server depending upon where the matching module is stored. The communication unit transmits the data to the matching module . The communication unit is coupled to the bus via signal line . In one instance the communication unit includes a port for direct physical connection to the network or to another communication channel. For example the communication unit includes a USB SD CAT 5 or similar port for wired communication with the network . In another instance the communication unit includes a wireless transceiver for exchanging data with the network or with another communication channel using one or more wireless communication methods such as IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.16 BLUETOOTH near field communication NFC or another suitable wireless communication method. In one instance the communication unit includes a NFC chip that generates a radio frequency RF for short range communication.

The storage device stores instructions and or data that may be executed by the processor . For example the storage device stores content data the social graph and profile data including information that links a plurality of first accounts of a first social network to a plurality of second accounts of a second social network. The storage device is communicatively coupled by the bus for communication with the other components of the computing device via signal line .

In the illustrated implementation the matching module includes a social network engine an account retrieval engine a candidate pairing module a match determination module a personalizing engine and a graphical user interface engine .

The social network engine may be software including routines for generating and managing a social network. In some instances the social network engine can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for generating a social network. In other instances the social network engine may be stored in the memory of the computing device and is accessible and executable by the processor . The social network engine may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device via signal line .

In some instances the social network engine manages registration of users creation of a user profile and creation of a social graph that may be stored in the storage . The social network engine also manages the association of different actions with the user profile including the publication of posts e.g. text links or media to a selected audience the publication of comments indications of acknowledgement e.g. approval or disapproval uploading of media e.g. photos videos etc. check ins to different locations and other actions associated with a social network.

The account retrieval engine may be software including routines for retrieving social data from a given social network. In one instance the account retrieval engine may be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for retrieving social data. In some instances the account retrieval engine can be stored in the memory of the computing device and may be accessible and executable by the processor . The account retrieval engine may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device via signal line .

In some instances the account retrieval engine requests social data from one or more social network servers . In some instances the social data is publicly available information. In some instances the user consents to the user of such data being retrieved. The social data includes any type of account information from the social networks. For example the account information includes full user names including synonyms or nicknames for matching account names a list of contacts for users in each social network social graphs and known matches between social networks. A known match includes explicit links e.g. ME links provided by users and matches made where the accounts have the same name. The explicit links are identified where a user in a first social network adds a link to the user s user profile that references the user s identity in a second social network.

In one instance the matching module may be stored on a social network server and the account retrieval engine retrieves the social data from the storage. In a same instance the account retrieval engine retrieves other social data from another social network server . In some instances the account retrieval engine stores the received social data in storage . In other instances the account retrieval engine transmits the social data to the candidate pairing module for processing.

In some instances the request and retrieval of social data may be performed by using the application programming interface API . The social network engine may provide a web service or API to provide the information that may be stored on social network server to the matching module . In some instances the social data can be provided in an Extensible Markup Language XML JavaScript Object Notation JSON or Comma Separated Values CSV format.

The candidate pairing module may be software including routines for pairing social network accounts from different social networks that may represent the same user . In one instance the candidate pairing module may be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for generating a set of candidate pairs between social networks. In some instances the candidate pairing module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and may be accessible and executable by the processor . The candidate pairing module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device via signal line .

The candidate pairing module receives social data for generating candidate pairs between the social networks. In some instances the user consents to the use of such data for generating the candidate pairs. In one instance the candidate pairing module receives a full user name an account name and contacts associated with a user from the account retrieval engine . In other instances the candidate pairing module retrieves one or more social graphs from the storage . Additionally the candidate pairing module receives known matching pairs that exist between the social networks or the candidate pairing module extracts the information from a social graph. Each pair in the known matching pairs may include identifiers that identify the user in each social network.

The candidate pairing module may use different algorithms to generate candidate pairs. In one instance the candidate pairing module generates candidate pairs by matching every account in a first social network with every account in a second social network. In some instances the candidate pairing module uses an algorithm that determines candidate pairs based on the relationships in each social network and known matching pairs that exist between the social networks.

For example the candidate pairing module generates a first set of candidate pairs for at least one account that is identified by a first contact identifier for each contact. A candidate pair in the first set includes user information for the at least one account and contact information for the contact. For example the user information may include an identification number or name a user name a full name and or a nickname for the at least one account. The contact information may include an identification number or name for the contact. The candidate pairing module generates a second set of candidate pairs that is identified by a second contact identifier for each contact. Similar to the first set a pair includes user information for the at least one account in the second social graph and contact information. The contact information may include an identification number or name for the contact.

The candidate pairing module generates the candidate pairs by merging the known matching pairs and the first and second set of pairs. In one instance merging includes performing a join on known matching pairs and the first and second sets to determine known matching pairs that have a matching contact in the first set and have a matching contact in the second set. The merge may generate results that include the known matching pair user information for a user in the first social network and user information for a user in the second social network. The candidate pairs include user information for each of the social networks. As used in the specification a contact of a user may be another user with whom the user has at least one relationship or affinity that is known by a system. An affinity between a first user and a second user may be data describing a degree of closeness between the first user and the second user. For example an affinity indicates that a first user and a second user have a close relationship because they follow each other in a social network. In some instances one or more other users may be connected to the first user. For example the one or more users can be friends of the first user. In another example users can belong to the same group.

In another example the candidate pairing module may use another algorithm that generates a set of pairs by associating contacts of known matching pairs between social networks. In one instance the candidate pairing module generates a first set of pairs by pairing known matching accounts from a first social network with contacts of the known matching account of the second social network. The candidate pairing module generates a second set of pairs by pairing each contact of the second social network in the first set of pairs with each contact of the paired account from the first social network in the first set of pairs. The candidate pairing module groups the second set of pairs by particular accounts of one of the social networks. The candidate pairing module generates candidate pairs by selecting one or more pairs from each group. In some instances the candidate pairs may include pairs that appear frequently in the group. For example a particular pair may have a number of copies in the group above a predetermined threshold. In some instances pairs that appear infrequently are deleted or not considered as candidate pairs.

In one instance the candidate pairing module stores the candidate pairs in storage . In other instances the candidate pairing module sends the candidate pairs to the pair scoring module for scoring the candidate pairs.

The match determination module may be software including routines for determining a subset of the candidate pairs that most likely represents the same user . In one instance the match determination module may be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for determining the candidate pairs that most likely represent the same user . In some instances the match determination module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and may be accessible and executable by the processor . The match determination module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device via signal line .

In one instance the match determination module receives the candidate pairs from the candidate pairing module . In another instance the match determination module retrieves the candidate pairs from storage .

The match determination module generates a score for the candidate pairs. In one instance the match determination module scores a pair by comparing user information of each account in the pair. The score for a pair may be based on having similar names including a full name user name account name or nicknames. The score may also be based on comparing the contacts associated with each account in the pair. In one instance the match determination module determines that contacts match based on matching names of the contacts. In other instances the match determination module determines that contacts match based on the explicit links. In some embodiments each candidate has a user profile that includes information such as employers schools geographic locations etc. The match determination module compares the user profiles for the contacts in each social network and generates a score based on the similarity of the user profile information. In some other embodiments the match determination module compares the similarity of other information for contacts in the social network for example the users can post similar status updates and photos to the different social networks. This can include when a user links a first social network with a second social network such that posts from the first social network are automatically published on the second social network. The match determination module may generate a higher score for matches based on explicit links than matches based on similar names.

In some instances for each second social network account the matching determination module identifies the candidate pairs containing a first social network account and selects the top N highest scored candidate pairs. In one instance N may be a small number for example three or less. The match determination module may discard the candidate pairs that are not top ranked candidate pairs. For each account of the first social network the match determination module identifies the remaining candidate pairs containing the second social network and selects the top N highest scored candidate pairs.

In another instance the match determination module generates a bipartite graph for the accounts in the candidate pairs. On one side of the graph nodes represent accounts of a first social network. On the other side nodes represent accounts of a second social network. Edges between nodes on each side include a value or weight that is a score for the pair. The match determination module computes a maximum weight bipartite matching in the graph. The maximum weight bipartite matching includes edges that form the matching pairs.

In one instance the match determination module may store the matching pairs in storage . In other instances the match determination module updates the known matches by adding the matching pairs to the known matches. In one instance the match determination module may repeat the process of finding matching pairs to find more matches between the social networks. The request may include the new version of the known matching pairs. In one instance the match determination module repeats the process based on additional high quality results for the candidate pairs that are determined to be matching pairs. For example the match determination module generates the request based on at least one of the scores being above a scoring threshold. In another example match determination module generates the request based on an average or mean of the scores being above a threshold. In other instances the match determination module sends the matching pairs to the graphical user interface engine for displaying the matching pairs or information related to the matching pairs. In another instance the match determination module sends the matching pairs to the graphical user interface for suggesting that a user connect or link accounts between social networks.

In other instances the match determination module generates a suggestion to create a connection between a first user and a second user based on the matching accounts. In this way users having accounts and a social affinity on a first social network may have the opportunity to connect on a second social network. The users may not be connected on the second social network for many reasons. For example one of the users may be a new user on the second social network. In another example at least one of the users may have an ambiguous handle or name that is not easily recognizable to other users.

The personalizing engine may be software including routines for allowing online services providers to retrieve personalized results for a user interacting on the online services. In some instances the personalizing engine can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality below for generating personalized results. In other instances the personalizing engine may be stored in the memory of the computing device and is accessible and executable by the processor . The personalizing engine may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device via signal line .

In instances where the matching module is stored on the social network server the personalizing engine receives a query associated with a first user from a server for example the third party server or search server . In the instances where the users consent to the use of such data the personalizing engine retrieves results from other users that are connected to the first user in the social network generated by the social network engine . In instances where the matching module is stored on the search server or the third party server the personalizing engine queries the social networks for search results associated with users for example through the user of an API. The personalizing engine uses the search results to add a social element to a webpage.

For example the search server receives a query from a first user for webpages about yogurt shops in Mountain View. The search server sends a query to the social network servers for social content that relate to yogurt shops in Mountain View e.g. posts photos videos check ins ratings etc. from other users associated with the first user e.g. other users that the first user follows or is friends with who consented to the use of such data. For example the first user might be more interested in visiting a yogurt shop that one of his connections visited and gave a high rating.

The graphical user interface engine may be software including routines for generating a user interface that displays information for presentation to a user . In some instances the graphical user interface engine can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for generating the user interface. In other instances the graphical user interface engine is stored in the memory of the computing device and is accessible and executable by the processor . The graphical user interface engine may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the computing device via signal line .

The user interface may include a remove button for removing a link between account of the social network and another account of another social network . The user interface may include a graphical representation for the account . In one instance the user interface includes suggested connections to give the user the option of connecting with the account of the social network. A suggestion may include a graphical representation of another account of another social network that the match determination module identified as being likely associated with the user. The suggestion may include add button for generating an explicit connection or link between the account and another account of another social network . In one instance the suggestion includes a not me button for reporting to the match determination module that account does not represent the same user as account of the social network. The match determination module updates the known matches accordingly.

Referring now to various examples for identifying accounts in different social networks belonging to the same user will be described.

The candidate pairing module generates candidate pairs from the contacts and known matching pairs. A match determination module determines a score for the candidate pairs. The match determination module determines matching accounts based on the score and adds the matching accounts to the known matching pairs.

In one instance the match determination module determines the matching account by A for each second social network account the match determination module identifies the candidate pairs containing the first social network account and selects the top N highest scored candidate pairs where N is a small number e.g. one two or three and discards all the other candidate pairs containing the second social network account and B for each first social network account the matching determination module identifies the remaining candidate pairs containing the second social network account and selects the top N highest scored candidate pairs where N is a small number.

In another instance the match determination module constructs a bipartite graph with nodes representing first social network accounts on one side and second social network accounts on the other side. There is an edge between node g on one side and node t on the other with a weight equal to the score for this pair of nodes. The matching determination module computes a maximum weight bipartite matching in the graph and outputs the resulting edges as known matching accounts.

The match determination module adds the matching accounts to the known matching pairs to generate a new set of known matching pairs. Then the match determination module determines whether to find more matching accounts. In one instance the match determination module determines to find more matching accounts based on the scores for the matching accounts. If the match determination module determines that more matching pairs should be found then the method moves to step . Otherwise the method ends.

An account retrieval engine receives social data for a first user for a first social network and a second social network. In social data for the first social network SN is included as a contact list for SN and account information for SN . Social data for the second social network SN is included as a contact list for SN and account information for SN .

The account retrieval engine identifies known matching pairs between the first and second social networks from the social data. In this example account information for SN includes an account identifier or user name a full name nickname and contacts for the user in the first social network. Account information for SN may have similar information on a second social network. The known matching pairs include for example a pair of account identifiers for both social networks such as a pair of email addresses for each social network. In a link between illustrates a known matching pair that is included in a set of known matching pairs .

The account retrieval engine transmits the known matching pairs to the candidate pairing module or the candidate pairing module retrieves the known matching pairs from storage . The candidate pairing module generates a first set of pairs for the first social network that is uniquely identified e.g. keyed by a first contact identifier for each contact. In this example the first set of pairs includes the contact ID for the first contact on the first social network and the user information for the user is the email address for Alice White on the second social network and the user information for John Doe . The first set of pairs also includes the contact ID for the second contact Chris Smith on the first social network and the user information for the user .

The candidate pairing module generates a second set of pairs for the second social network that is uniquely identified e.g. keyed by a second contact identifier for each contact. In this example the set of pairs the contact ID for the first contact on the second social network and the user information for the user is the email address for Alice White on the second social network and the user information for John Doe . The second set of pairs also includes the contact ID for the second contact Luke Smith on the second social network and the user information for the user .

The candidate pairing module joins account identifiers from the known matching pairs with the first contact identifiers from the first set of pairs to form a first joined result. The candidate pairing module joins the account identifiers from the known matching pairs with the second contact identifiers from the second set of pairs to form a second joined result. The candidate pairing module merges the first joined result with the second joined result to form a set of quadruplets and identifies the candidate pairs from the set of quadruplets.

A candidate pair may be generated by pairing the user information for an account on the first social network and user information for an account on a second social network from the join results. In this example account John.Doe of the first social network and account John.Doe of the second social network are paired based on Alice.White being included in the known matching pairs and being a contact of both accounts. By merging the first joined result with the second joined result the quadruplet is . The candidate pair containing the two John Doe accounts is identified in the quadruplet .

The candidate pairing module identifies known matching pairs between the first and second social networks from the social data. For example in John Doe and Luke Smith have known matching pairs between SN and SN. Links and between user contact lists and illustrate the connections. For example the known matching pairs include account identifiers for the matching pairs in the social networks . Using the example of John.Doe and Luke.Smith the account identifiers include and .

The candidate pairing module generates a first set of pairs by pairing a first account identifier from the first social network with first contact identifiers from the second social network . For example John Doe from the first social network has two contacts from the second social network Alice.White and Chris.Smith. The candidate pairing module generates a first set of pairs including Alice.White and Chris.Smith . Similarly if Luke.Smith from the first social network has a known matching pair with Luke.Smith in the second social network and Luke.Smith has Alice.White in the second social network as a contact the candidate pairing module generates a pair as .

For each pair in the first set of pairs the candidate pairing module generates a second set of pairs by pairing a second account identifier for the second user in the pair from the second social network with second contact identifiers from the first social network . In for example in the first set John Doe from the first social network is paired with Alice.White from the second social network. In the first social network account for John.Doe has contacts Alice.White and James.Brown. As a result contact Alice.White from the second social network is paired with contacts Alice.White and James.Brown from the first social network and included in the second set . Similarly Luke.Smith had the pair in the previous step. If in the first social network Luke.Smith has contacts Alice.White SN and Paul.Green SN the candidate pairing module generates and .

After this stage the candidate pairing module has three distinct pairs containing Alice.White SN. The pairs contain the first social network identifiers Alice.White SN James.Brown SN and Paul.Green SN. This means that Alice.White SN James.Brown SN and Paul.Green SN are candidate matching pairs for Alice.White SN. In this case one of these is a candidate corresponding to a true known matching pair and thus will have a high score in step of and two are candidates corresponding to different user accounts and thus will have low scores in step of . A key property of the steps in is that it is possible to have many copies of the same pair of . In fact the number of copies of a pair is equal to the number of known matching links between the respective contacts of a given pair. In this example the two Alice White accounts had two contacts in common John Doe and Luke Smith.

The candidate pairing module generates the candidate pairs for Alice by grouping the set of pairs according to account identifiers for the second social network. In the the candidate pairing module determines that there are two copies of Alice.White SN associated with the Alice.White SN one copy of the James.Brown SN and one copy of the Luke.Smith SN. Thus Alice.White SN is more likely to be the true known matching link.

In some instances pairs that appear infrequently are deleted or not considered as candidate pairs. In the example the pairs and are deleted because there is only one occurrence of that particular pair.

In the above description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the specification. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. For example the disclosure is described in one instance primarily with reference to user interfaces and particular hardware. However the disclosure applies to any type of computing device that can receive data and commands and any peripheral devices providing services.

Reference in the specification to one instance or an instance means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the instance is included in at least one instance of the description. The appearances of the phrase in one instance in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same instance.

Some portions of the detailed description are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The specification also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memories including USB keys with non volatile memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

The specification can take the form of an entirely hardware instance an entirely software instance or an instance containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred instance the specification is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the description can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Finally the algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description above. In addition the specification is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the specification as described herein.

The foregoing description of the instances of the specification has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the specification to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the disclosure be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As will be understood by those familiar with the art the specification may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the specification or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the disclosure can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the specification is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the disclosure is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the specification which is set forth in the following claims.

