---

title: Aminodiazepines as toll-like receptor modulators
abstract: Provided are compositions and methods useful for modulation signaling through the Toll-like receptor TLR8. The compositions and methods have use in the treatment of autoimmunity, inflammation allergy, asthma, graft rejection, graft versus host disease, infection, sepsis, cancer and immunodeficiency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08673898&OS=08673898&RS=08673898
owner: Array BioPharma Inc.
number: 08673898
owner_city: Boulder
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120412
---
This application is a divisional application corresponding to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 064 196 filed Feb. 19 2008 which is a National Stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2006 032099 having an international filing date of Aug. 17 2006 which published as WO 2007 040840 which claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 709 667 filed on Aug. 19 2005 the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention relates to methods and compositions for modulating immune function. More specifically this invention relates to compositions and methods for modulating TLR8 mediated signaling.

Stimulation of the immune system which includes stimulation of either or both innate immunity and adaptive immunity is a complex phenomenon that can result in either protective or adverse physiologic outcomes for the host. In recent years there has been increased interest in the mechanisms underlying innate immunity which is believed to initiate and support adaptive immunity. This interest has been fueled in part by the recent discovery of a family of highly conserved pattern recognition receptor proteins known as Toll like receptors TLRs believed to be involved in innate immunity as receptors for pathogen associated molecular patterns PAMPs . Compositions and methods useful for modulating innate immunity are therefore of great interest as they may affect therapeutic approaches to conditions involving autoimmunity inflammation allergy asthma graft rejection graft versus host disease GvHD infection cancer and immunodeficiency.

Toll like receptors TLRs are type I transmembrane proteins that allow organisms including mammals to detect microbes and initiate an innate immune response Beutler B. 2004 430 257 263 . They contain homologous cytoplasmic domains and leucine rich extracelluar domains and typically form homodimers that sense extracellular or internalized signals and subsequently initiate a signal transduction cascade via adaptor molecules such as MyD88 myeloid differentiation factor 88 . There is such high homology in the cytoplasmic domains of the TLRs that initially it was suggested that similar signaling pathways exist for all TLRs Re F. Strominger J. L. 2004 209 191 198 . Indeed all TLRs can activate NF kB and MAP kinases however the cytokine chemokine release profiles derived from TLR activation appears unique to each TLR. Additionally the signaling pathway that TLRs stimulate is very similar to the pathway induced by the cytokine receptor IL 1R. This may be due to the homology that these receptors share i.e. TIR Toll IL 1R homology domains. Once the TIR domain is activated in TLRs and MyD88 is recruited activation of the IRAK family of serine threonine kinases results which eventually promotes the degradation of Ik B and activation of NF kB Means T. K. et al. 2000 68 241 258 . While it appears that this cascade is designed to allow extracellular stimuli to promote intracellular events there is evidence that some TLRs migrate to endosomes where signaling can also be initiated. This process may allow for intimate contact with engulfed microbes and fits with the role that these receptors play in the innate immune response Underhill D. M. et al. 1999 401 811 815 . This process might also allow host nucleic acids released by damaged tissues for example in inflammatory disease or apoptosis to trigger a response via endosomal presentation. Among mammals there are 11 TLRs that coordinate this rapid response. A hypothesis put forward years ago Janeway C. A. Jr. 1989 54 1 13 that the innate immune response initiates the adaptive immune response through the pattern of TLR activation caused by microbes has now been substantiated. Thus the pathogen associated molecular patterns PAMPs presented by a diverse group of infectious organisms results in a innate immune response involving certain cytokines chemokines and growth factors followed by a precise adaptive immune response tailored to the infectious pathogen via antigen presentation resulting in antibody production and cytotoxic T cell generation.

Gram negative bacterial lipopolysaccharide LPS has long been appreciated as an adjuvant and immune stimulant and as a pharmacological tool for inducing an inflammatory reaction in mammals similar to septic shock. Using a genetic approach TLR4 was identified as the receptor for LPS. The discovery that LPS is an agonist of TLR4 illustrates the usefulness of TLR modulation for vaccine and human disease therapy Aderem A. Ulevitch R. J. 2000 406 782 787 . It is now appreciated that various TLR agonists can activate B cells neutrophils mast cells eosinophils endothelial cells and several types of epithelia in addition to regulating proliferation and apoptosis of certain cell types.

To date TLR7 and TLR8 which are somewhat similar have been characterized as receptors for single stranded RNA found in endosomal compartments and thus thought to be important for the immune response to viral challenge. Imiquimod an approved topical anti viral anti cancer drug has recently been described as a TLR7 agonist that has demonstrated clinical efficacy in certain skin disorders Miller R. L. et al. 1999 21 1 14 . This small molecule drug has been described as a structural mimetic of ssRNA. TLR8 was first described in 2000 Du X. et al. 2000 September 11 3 362 371 and was rapidly ascribed to being involved with the innate immune response to viral infection Miettinen M. et al. 2001 October 2 6 349 355 .

Recently it was reported that certain imidazoquinoline compounds having antiviral activity are ligands of TLR7 and TLR8 Hemmi H. et al. 2002 3 196 200 Jurk M. et al. 2002 3 499 . Imidazoquinolines are potent synthetic activators of immune cells with antiviral and antitumor properties. Using macrophages from wildtype and MyD88 deficient mice Hemmi et al. recently reported that two imidazoquinolines imiquimod and resiquimod R848 induce tumor necrosis factor TNF and interleukin 12 IL 12 and activate NF B only in wildtype cells consistent with activation through a TLR Hemmi H. et al. 2002 3 196 200 . Macrophages from mice deficient in TLR7 but not other TLRs produced no detectable cytokines in response to these imidazoquinolines. In addition the imidazoquinolines induced dose dependent proliferation of splenic B cells and the activation of intracellular signaling cascades in cells from wildtype but not TLR7 mice. Luciferase analysis established that expression of human TLR7 but not TLR2 or TLR4 in human embryonic kidney cells results in NF B activation in response to resiquimod. The findings of Hemmi et al. thus suggest that these imidazoquinoline compounds are non natural ligands of TLR7 that can induce signaling through TLR7. Recently it was reported that R848 is also a ligand for human TLR8 Jurk M. et al. 2002 3 499 .

The compositions described herein are useful for modulating immune responses in vitro and in vivo. Such compositions will find use in a number of clinical applications such as in methods for treating conditions involving unwanted immune activity including inflammatory and autoimmune disorders.

and metabolites solvates tautomers and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof wherein Z R R R R Rand n are as defined hereinbelow.

and metabolites solvates tautomers and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein Z R R R Rand Rare as defined hereinbelow.

The invention also relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of Formula I or II or a metabolite tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or salt thereof.

The inventive compounds may be used advantageously in combination with other known therapeutic agents. Accordingly this invention also relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or II or a metabolite tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or salt thereof in combination with a second therapeutic agent.

This invention further provides methods of modulating TLR8 mediated signaling comprising contacting a cell expressing TLR8 with an effective amount of a compound of Formula I or II or a metabolite tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or salt thereof. In one aspect the method inhibits TLR8 mediated immunostimulatory signaling.

This invention further provides methods of modulating TLR8 mediated immunostimulation in a subject comprising administering to a patient having or at risk of developing TLR8 mediated immunostimulation a compound of Formula I or II or a metabolite tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or salt thereof in an amount effective to inhibit or promote TLR8 mediated immunostimulation in the subject.

This invention further provides methods of treating a condition or disorder treatable by modulation of TLR8 mediated cellular activities comprising administering to a mammal for example a human having or at risk of developing said condition or disorder a compound of Formula I or II or a metabolite tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or salt thereof in an amount effective to treat said condition or disorder.

This invention further provides methods of modulating the immune system of a mammal comprising administering to a mammal a compound of Formula I or II or a metabolite tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or salt thereof in an amount effective to modulate said immune system.

Further provided is a compound of Formula I or II or a metabolite tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or salt thereof for use as a medicament in the treatment of the diseases or conditions described herein in a mammal for example a human suffering from such disease or condition. Also provided is the use of a compound of Formula I or II or a metabolite tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or salt thereof in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the diseases and conditions described herein in a human suffering from such disorder.

This invention further provides kits comprising one or more compounds of Formula I or II or a metabolite tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or salt thereof. The kit may further comprise a second compound or formulation comprising a second pharmaceutical agent.

Additional advantages and novel features of this invention shall be set forth in part in the description that follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following specification or may be learned by the practice of the invention. The advantages of the invention may be realized and attained by means of the instrumentalities combinations compositions and methods particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

In certain aspects the invention provides compositions and methods useful for modulating TLR8 mediated signaling. More specifically one aspect of this invention provides a compound of Formula I

and metabolites solvates tautomers and pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs and salts thereof wherein 

Z is H alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl ORor NRR wherein said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from alkyl alkenyl alkynyl F Cl Br I CN OR NRR C O R C O OR OC O R C O NRR C Calkyl amino CHOCHO ROC O CH CH NRSOR SRand SOR 

R R Rand Rare independently selected from H alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl wherein said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from alkyl alkenyl alkynyl F Cl Br I CN OR NRR C O R C O OR OC O R C O NRR C Calkyl amino CHOCHO ROC O CH CH NRSOR SRand SOR 

or Rand Rtogether with the atom to which they are attached form a saturated or partially unsaturated carbocyclic ring wherein said carbocyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from alkyl alkenyl alkynyl F Cl Br I CN OR NRR C O R C O OR OC O R C O NRR C Calkyl amino CHOCHO ROC O CH CH NRSOR SRand SOR 

Rand Rare independently selected from H alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl wherein said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from alkyl alkenyl alkynyl F Cl Br I CN OR NRR C O R C O OR OC O R C O NRR C Calkyl amino CHOCHO ROC O CH CH NRSOR SRand SOR 

or Rand Rtogether with the atom to which they are attached form a saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring wherein said heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from alkyl alkenyl alkynyl F Cl Br I CN OR NRR C O R C O OR OC O R C O NRR C Calkyl amino CHOCHO ROC O CH CH NRSOR SRand SOR and

and metabolites solvates tautomers and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof wherein 

Z is H alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl ORor NRR wherein said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from alkyl alkenyl alkynyl F Cl Br I CN OR NRR C O R C O OR OC O R C O NRR C Calkyl amino CHOCHO ROC O CH CH NRSOR SRand SOR 

R R Rand Rare independently selected from H alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl wherein said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from alkyl alkenyl alkynyl F Cl Br I CN OR NRR C O R C O OR OC O R C O NRR C Calkyl amino CHOCHO ROC O CH CH NRSOR SRand SOR 

or Rand Rtogether with the atom to which they are attached form a saturated or partially unsaturated carbocyclic ring wherein said carbocyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from alkyl alkenyl alkynyl F Cl Br I CN OR NRR C O R C O OR OC O R C O NRR C Calkyl amino CHOCHO ROC O CH CH NRSOR SRand SOR 

Rand Rare independently selected from H alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl wherein said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from alkyl alkenyl alkynyl F Cl Br I CN OR NRR C O R C O OR OC O R C O NRR C Calkyl amino CHOCHO ROC O CH CH NRSOR SRand SOR 

or Rand Rtogether with the atom to which they are attached form a saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring wherein said heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from alkyl alkenyl alkynyl F Cl Br I CN OR NRR C O R C O OR OC O R C O NRR C Calkyl amino CHOCHO ROC O CH CH NRSOR SRand SOR and

In certain embodiments Z is OR. In certain embodiments Ris alkyl such as 1 6C alkyl. In particular embodiments Ris ethyl propyl isopropyl or isobutyl.

In certain embodiments Z is NRR. In certain embodiments Rand Rare independently H or alkyl such as 1 6C alkyl. In particular embodiment Rand Rare ethyl.

In certain embodiments Ris H or alkyl such as 1 4C alkyl and Ris H. In certain embodiments Ris alkyl such as 1 4C alkyl. In particular embodiments Ris methyl. In other particular embodiments Ris H.

In certain embodiments Ris H or alkyl such as 1 4C alkyl and Ris H. In certain embodiments Ris alkyl. In particular embodiments Ris methyl. In other particular embodiments Ris H.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical having one to twelve including one to ten carbon atoms one to six carbon atoms and one to four carbon atoms wherein the alkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. Examples of alkyl radicals include C Chydrocarbon moieties such as but not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl i Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl and 1 octyl.

The term alkenyl refers to a linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical having two to 10 carbon atoms including two to six carbon atoms and two to four carbon atoms and at least one double bond and include but is not limited to ethenyl propenyl 1 but 3 enyl 1 pent 3 enyl 1 hex 5 enyl and the like wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. The term alkenyl includes allyl.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms including two to six carbon atoms and two to four carbon atoms containing at least one triple bond. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl propynyl butynyl pentyn 2 yl and the like wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl or cycloalkyl are used interchangeably herein and refer to saturated or partially unsaturated cyclic hydrocarbon radical having from three to twelve carbon atoms including from three to ten carbon atoms and from three to six carbon atoms. The term cycloalkyl includes monocyclic and polycyclic e.g. bicyclic and tricyclic cycloalkyl structures wherein the polycyclic structures optionally include a saturated or partially unsaturated cycloalkyl fused to a saturated or partially unsaturated cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl ring or an aryl or heteroaryl ring. Examples of cycloalkyl groups include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and the like. Bicyclic carbocycles have 7 to 12 ring atoms e.g. arranged as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system or 9 or 10 ring atoms arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. The cycloalkyl may be optionally substituted independently at one or more substitutable positions with one or more substituents described herein. Such cycloalkyl groups may be optionally substituted with for example one or more groups independently selected from C Calkyl C Calkoxy halogen hydroxy cyano nitro amino mono C C alkylamino di C C alkylamino C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Chaloalkyl C Chaloalkoxy amino C C alkyl mono C C alkylamino C C alkyl and di C C alkylamino C C alkyl.

The term cycloalkenyl refers to a partially unsaturated cyclic hydrocarbon radical having from three to ten carbon atoms including from three to six carbon atoms and having at least one double bond within the carbocycle.

The term heteroalkyl refers to saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms including from one to six carbon atoms and from one to four carbon atoms wherein at least one of the carbon atoms is replaced with a heteroatom selected from N O or S and wherein the radical may be a carbon radical or heteroatom radical i.e. the heteroatom may appear in the middle or at the end of the radical . The heteroalkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. The term heteroalkyl encompasses alkoxy and heteroalkoxy radicals.

The terms heterocycloalkyl heterocycle and hetercyclyl are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or partially unsaturated carbocyclic radical of 3 to 8 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. The radical may be a carbon radical or heteroatom radical. The term heterocycle includes heterocycloalkoxy. The term further includes fused ring systems which include a heterocycle fused to an aromatic group. Heterocycloalkyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with aromatic or heteroaromatic rings. Examples of heterocycloalkyl rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl 3H indolyl quinolizinyl and N pyridyl ureas. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. The foregoing groups as derived from the groups listed above may be C attached or N attached where such is possible. For instance a group derived from pyrrole may be pyrrol 1 yl N attached or pyrrol 3 yl C attached . Further a group derived from imidazole may be imidazol 1 yl N attached or imidazol 3 yl C attached . An example of a heterocyclic group wherein 2 ring carbon atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties is 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. The heterocycle groups herein are unsubstituted or as specified substituted in one or more substitutable positions with various groups. For example such heterocycle groups may be optionally substituted with for example one or more groups independently selected from C Calkyl C Calkoxy halogen hydroxy cyano nitro amino mono C C alkylamino di C C alkylamino C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Chaloalkyl C Chaloalkoxy amino C C alkyl mono C C alkylamino C C alkyl or di C C alkylamino C C alkyl. The term aryl refers to a monovalent aromatic carbocyclic radical having a single ring e.g. phenyl multiple rings e.g. biphenyl or multiple condensed rings in which at least one is aromatic e.g. 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl naphthyl etc. which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from for example halogen lower alkyl lower alkoxy trifluoromethyl aryl heteroaryl and hydroxy.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 6 or 7 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 10 atoms containing at least one and up to four heteroatoms selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl imidazolyl pyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Heteroaryl groups are optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from for example halogen lower alkyl lower alkoxy haloalkyl aryl heteroaryl and hydroxy.

In general the various moieties or functional groups of the compounds of Formula I or II may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents. Examples of substituents suitable for purposes of this invention include but are not limited to oxo halogen cyano nitro trifluoromethyl difluoromethoxy trifluoromethoxy azido NR SOR SONR R C O R C O OR OC O R NR C O OR NR C O R C O NR R NR R NR C O N R NR C NCN NR R OR aryl heteroaryl arylalkyl heteroarylalkyl heterocyclyl and heterocyclylalkyl where R R and R are independently H alkyl heteroalkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl or heteroaryl.

It is to be understood that in instances where two or more radicals are used in succession to define a substituent attached to a structure the first named radical is considered to be terminal and the last named radical is considered to be attached to the structure in question. Thus for example an arylalkyl radical is attached to the structure in question by the alkyl group.

The compounds of this invention may possess one or more asymmetric centers such compounds can therefore be produced as individual R or S stereoisomers or as mixtures thereof. Unless indicated otherwise the description or naming of a particular compound in the specification and claims is intended to include both individual enantiomers diastereomers mixtures racemic or otherwise thereof. Accordingly this invention also includes all such isomers including diastereomeric mixtures pure diastereomers and pure enantiomers of the compounds of Formulas I and II. Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods known to those skilled in the art for example by chromatography or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomer mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. alcohol separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column. Methods for the determination of stereochemistry and the separation of stereoisomers are well known in the art see discussion in Chapter 4 of Advanced Organic Chemistry 4th edition J. March John Wiley and Sons New York 1992 .

In the structures shown herein where the stereochemistry of any particular chiral atom is not specified then all stereoisomers are contemplated and included as the compounds of the invention. Where stereochemistry is specified by a solid wedge or dashed line representing a particular configuration then that stereoisomer is so specified and defined.

A single stereoisomer e.g. an enantiomer substantially free of its stereoisomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 Lochmuller C. H. 1975 113 3 283 302 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents separation of the diastereomers and conversion to the pure stereoisomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions. See Irving W. Wainer Ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1993 .

Under method 1 diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine methyl phenylethylamine amphetamine and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic functionality such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

Alternatively by method 2 the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 p. 322 . Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents such as menthyl derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the pure or enriched enantiomer. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters for example a menthyl ester such as menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base or Mosher ester methoxy trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate Jacob III 1982 47 4165 of the racemic mixture and analyzing the NMR spectrum for the presence of the two atropisomeric enantiomers or diastereomers. Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be separated and isolated by normal and reverse phase chromatography following methods for separation of atropisomeric naphthyl isoquinolines WO 96 15111 . By method 3 a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral stationary phase 1989 W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York Okamoto 1990 513 375 378 . Enriched or purified enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with asymmetric carbon atoms such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.

In addition to compounds of Formula I and II the invention also includes solvates pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs pharmaceutically active metabolites solvates and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of such compounds.

A pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug is a compound that may be converted under physiological conditions or by solvolysis to the specified compound or to a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of such compound. Prodrugs include compounds wherein an amino acid residue or a polypeptide chain of two or more e.g. two three or four amino acid residues is covalently joined through an amide or ester bond to a free amino hydroxy or carboxylic acid group of compounds of the present invention. The amino acid residues include but are not limited to the 20 naturally occurring amino acids commonly designated by three letter symbols and also includes phosphoserine phosphothreonine phosphotyrosine 4 hydroxyproline hydroxylysine demosine isodemosine gamma carboxyglutamate hippuric acid octahydroindole 2 carboxylic acid statine 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid penicillamine ornithine 3 methylhistidine norvaline beta alanine gamma aminobutyric acid cirtulline homocysteine homoserine methyl alanine para benzoylphenylalanine phenylglycine propargylglycine sarcosine methionine sulfone and tert butylglycine. Particular examples of prodrugs of this invention include a compound of Formula I or II covalently joined to a phosphate residue or a valine residue.

Additional types of prodrugs are also encompassed. For instance free carboxyl groups can be derivatized as amides or alkyl esters. As another example compounds of this invention comprising free hydroxy groups may be derivatized as prodrugs by converting the hydroxy group into groups such as but not limited to phosphate ester hemisuccinate dimethylaminoacetate or phosphoryloxymethyloxycarbonyl groups as outlined in 1996 19 115. Carbamate prodrugs of hydroxy and amino groups are also included as are carbonate prodrugs sulfonate esters and sulfate esters of hydroxy groups. Derivatization of hydroxy groups as acyloxy methyl and acyloxy ethyl ethers wherein the acyl group may be an alkyl ester optionally substituted with groups including but not limited to ether amine and carboxylic acid functionalities or where the acyl group is an amino acid ester as described above are also encompassed. Prodrugs of this type are described in . 1996 39 10. More specific examples include replacement of the hydrogen atom of the alcohol group with a group such as C C alkanoyloxymethyl 1 C C alkanoyloxy ethyl 1 methyl 1 C C alkanoyloxy ethyl C C alkoxycarbonyloxymethyl N C C alkoxycarbonylaminomethyl succinoyl C C alkanoyl amino C C alkanoyl arylacyl and aminoacyl or aminoacyl aminoacyl where each aminoacyl group is independently selected from the naturally occurring L amino acids P O OH P O O C C alkyl or glycosyl the radical resulting from the removal of a hydroxyl group of the hemiacetal form of a carbohydrate .

Free amines can also be derivatized as amides sulfonamides or phosphonamides. All of these prodrug moieties may incorporate groups including but not limited to ether amine and carboxylic acid functionalities. For example a prodrug can be formed by the replacement of a hydrogen atom in the amine group with a group such as R carbonyl RO carbonyl NRR carbonyl where R and R are each independently C C alkyl C C cycloalkyl benzyl or R carbonyl is a natural aminoacyl or natural aminoacyl natural aminoacyl C OH C O OY wherein Y is H C C alkyl or benzyl C OYO Ywherein Yis C C alkyl and Yis C C alkyl carboxy C C alkyl amino C C alkyl or mono N or di N N C C alkylaminoalkyl C Y Ywherein Yis H or methyl and Yis mono N or di N N C C alkylamino morpholino piperidin 1 yl or pyrrolidin 1 yl.

For additional examples of prodrug derivatives see for example a edited by H. Bundgaard Elsevier 1985 and Vol. 42 p. 309 396 edited by K. Widder et al. Academic Press 1985 b edited by Krogsgaard Larsen and H. Bundgaard Chapter 5 by H. Bundgaard p. 113 191 1991 c H. Bundgaard 1992 8 1 38 d H. Bundgaard et al. 1988 77 285 and e N. Kakeya et al. . 1984 32 692 each of which is specifically incorporated herein by reference.

A pharmaceutically active metabolite is a pharmacologically active product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein.

Prodrugs and active metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art.

A pharmaceutically acceptable salt unless otherwise indicated includes salts that retain the biological effectiveness of the free acids and bases of the specified compound and that are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. A compound of the invention may possess a sufficiently acidic a sufficiently basic or both functional groups and accordingly react with any of a number of inorganic or organic bases and inorganic and organic acids to form a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include those salts prepared by reaction of the compounds of the present invention with a mineral or organic acid or an inorganic base such salts including sulfates pyrosulfates bisulfates sulfites bisulfites phosphates monohydrogenphosphates dihydrogenphosphates metaphosphates pyrophosphates chlorides bromides iodides acetates propionates decanoates caprylates acrylates formates isobutyrates caproates heptanoates propiolates oxalates malonates succinates suberates sebacates fumarates maleates butyn 1 4 dioates hexyne 1 6 dioates benzoates chlorobenzoates methylbenzoates dinitrobenzoates hydroxybenzoates methoxybenzoates phthalates sulfonates xylenesulfonates pheylacetates phenylpropionates phenylbutyrates citrates lactates hydroxybutyrates glycollates tartrates methanesulfonates propanesulfonates naphthalene 1 sulfonates naphthalene 2 sulfonates and mandelates. Since a single compound of the present invention may include more than one acidic or basic moieties the compounds of the present invention may include mono di or tri salts in a single compound.

If the inventive compound is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an acidic compound particularly an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the inventive compound is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base. Examples of suitable inorganic salts include those formed with alkali and alkaline earth metals such as lithium sodium potassium barium and calcium. Examples of suitable organic base salts include for example ammonium dibenzylammonium benzylammonium 2 hydroxyethylammonium bis 2 hydroxyethyl ammonium phenylethylbenzylamine dibenzylethylenediamine and the like salts. Other salts of acidic moieties may include for example those salts formed with procaine quinine and N methylglucosamine plus salts formed with basic amino acids such as glycine ornithine histidine phenylglycine lysine and arginine.

The inventive compounds may be prepared using the reaction routes and synthesis schemes as described below employing the techniques available in the art using starting materials that are readily available or can be synthesized using methods known in the art.

In Scheme I compounds of Formula IV may be prepared from an aryl aldehyde of Formula III by treatment with an appropriately substituted aminoacetonitrile in the presence of a reducing agent such as NaCNBH. The reaction can be conducted at temperatures between about 0 C. and 100 C. in a suitable solvent such as MeOH or EtOH for a time between about 0.1 and 100 hours for example about 1 hour . Compounds of Formula V can be prepared from a compound of Formula IV using an acylating or sulfonylating agent in the presence of a suitable base such as pyridine. The reaction may be conducted at temperatures between about 0 C. and 200 C. for about 0.1 and 100 hours for example about 5 hours . Reduction followed by cyclization of a compound of Formula V provides a compound of Formula I. The cyclization may be conducted in the presence of a metal for example Fe and an acid for example acetic acid at temperatures between about 0 C. and 100 C. for a period of time between about 0.5 and 72 hours for example 5 hours .

It is noted that some of the preparations of compounds of Formulas I and II described herein may require protection of remote functionalities. The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the functionality and the conditions used in the preparation methods and can be readily determined by those skilled in the art. Such protection deprotection methods are well known to those skilled in the art.

The compounds of the invention find use in a variety of applications. For example in certain aspects the invention provides methods for modulating TLR8 mediated signaling. The methods of the invention are useful for example when it is desirable to alter TLR8 mediated signaling in response to a suitable TLR8 ligand or TLR8 signaling agonist. As used herein the terms TLR8 ligand and equivalently ligand for TLR8 and TLR8 signaling agonist refer to a molecule other than a compound of Formula I or II directly or indirectly with TLR8 through a TLR8 domain other than a TIR8 domain and induces TLR8 mediated signaling. In certain embodiment a TLR8 ligand is a natural ligand i.e. a TLR8 ligand that is found in nature. In certain embodiment a TLR8 ligand refers to a molecule other than a natural ligand of TLR8 e.g. a molecule prepared by human activity.

The term modulate as used herein with respect to the TLR8 receptor means the mediation of a pharmacodynamic response in a subject by i inhibiting or activating the receptor or ii directly or indirectly affecting the normal regulation of the receptor activity. Compounds that modulate receptor activity include agonists antagonists mixed agonists antagonists and compounds that directly or indirectly affect regulation of the receptor activity.

The term agonist as used herein refers to a compound that in combination with a receptor e.g. a TLR can produce a cellular response. An agonist may be a ligand that directly binds to the receptor. Alternatively an agonist may combine with a receptor indirectly by for example a forming a complex with another molecule that directly binds to the receptor or b otherwise resulting in the modification of another compound so that the other compound directly binds to the receptor. An agonist may be referred to as an agonist of a particular TLR e.g. a TLR8 agonist .

The term antagonist as used herein refers to a compound that competes with an agonist or inverse agonist for binding to a receptor thereby blocking the action of an agonist or inverse agonist on the receptor. However an antagonist also known as a neutral antagonist has no effect on constitutive receptor activity. More specifically an antagonist is a compound that inhibits the activity of TLR8 at the TLR8 receptor.

The term inhibit as used herein refers to any measurable reduction of biological activity. Thus as used herein inhibit or inhibition may be referred to as a percentage of a normal level of activity.

In one aspect of this invention a method of treating a condition or disorder treatable by modulation of TLR8 mediated cellular activities in a subject comprises administering to a subject having said condition or disorder a compound of Formula I or II in an amount effective to treat the condition or disorder. The term TLR8 mediated refers to a biological or biochemical activity that results from TLR8 function.

Conditions and disorders that can be treated by the methods of this invention include but are not limited to cancer immune complex associated diseases inflammatory disorders immunodeficiency graft rejection graft versus host disease allergies asthma infection and sepsis. More specifically methods useful in the treatment of conditions involving autoimmunity inflammation allergy asthma graft rejection and GvHD generally will employ a compound of Formulas I or II that inhibit TLR8 mediated signaling in response to a suitable TLR8 ligand or a suitable TLR8 signaling agonist. Alternatively methods useful in the treatment of conditions involving infection cancer and immunodeficiency generally will employ a compound of Formula I or II that augment TLR8 mediated signaling in response to a suitable TLR8 ligand. In some instances the compositions can be used to inhibit or promote TLR8 mediated signaling in response to a TLR8 ligand or a TLR8 signaling agonist. In other instances the compositions can be used to inhibit or promote TLR8 mediated immunostimulation in a subject.

The term treating as used herein unless otherwise indicated means at least the mitigation of a disease condition in a mammal such as a human and includes but is not limited to modulating and or inhibiting the disease condition and or alleviating the disease condition to which such term applies or one or more symptoms of such disorder or condition. The term treatment as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to the act of treating as treating is defined immediately above.

As used herein the terms autoimmune disease autoimmune disorder and autoimmunity refer to immunologically mediated acute or chronic injury to a tissue or organ derived from the host. The terms encompass both cellular and antibody mediated autoimmune phenomena as well as organ specific and organ nonspecific autoimmunity. Autoimmune diseases include insulin dependent diabetes mellitus rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus multiple sclerosis atherosclerosis and inflammatory bowel disease. Autoimmune diseases also include without limitation ankylosing spondylitis autoimmune hemolytic anemia Behget s syndrome Goodpasture s syndrome Graves disease Guillain Barre syndrome Hashimoto s thyroiditis idiopathic thrombocytopenia myasthenia gravis pernicious anemia polyarteritis nodosa polymyositis dermatomyositis primary biliary sclerosis psoriasis sarcoidosis sclerosing cholangitis Sjogren s syndrome systemic sclerosis scleroderma and CREST syndrome Takayasu s arteritis temporal arteritis and Wegener s granulomatosis. Autoimmune diseases also include certain immune complex associated diseases.

As used herein the terms cancer and tumor refer to a condition in which abnormally replicating cells of host origin are present in a detectable amount in a subject. The cancer can be a malignant or non malignant cancer. Cancers or tumors include but are not limited to biliary tract cancer brain cancer breast cancer cervical cancer choriocarcinoma colon cancer endometrial cancer esophageal cancer gastric stomach cancer intraepithelial neoplasms leukemias lymphomas liver cancer lung cancer e.g. small cell and non small cell melanoma neuroblastomas oral cancer ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer prostate cancer rectal cancer renal kidney cancer sarcomas skin cancer testicular cancer thyroid cancer as well as other carcinomas and sarcomas. Cancers can be primary or metastatic.

As used herein the term immune complex associated disease refers to any disease characterized by the production and or tissue deposition of immune complexes i.e. any conjugate including an antibody and an antigen specifically bound by the antibody including but not limited to systemic lupus erythematosus SLE and related connective tissue diseases rheumatoid arthritis hepatitis C and hepatitis B related immune complex disease e.g. cryoglobulinemia Behget s syndrome autoimmune glomerulonephritides and vasculopathy associated with the presence of LDL anti LDL immune complexes.

As used herein immunodeficiency refers to a disease or disorder in which the subject s immune system is not functioning in normal capacity or in which it would be useful to boost a subject s immune response for example to eliminate a tumor or cancer e.g. tumors of the brain lung e.g. small cell and non small cell ovary breast prostate colon as well as other carcinomas and sarcomas or an infection in a subject. The immunodeficiency can be acquired or it can be congenital.

As used herein graft rejection refers to immunologically mediated hyperacute acute or chronic injury to a tissue or organ derived from a source other than the host. The term thus encompasses both cellular and antibody mediated rejection as well as rejection of both allografts and xenografts.

 Graft versus host disease GvHD is a reaction of donated bone marrow against a patient s own tissue. GVHD is seen most often in cases where the blood marrow donor is unrelated to the patient or when the donor is related to the patient but not a perfect match. There are two forms of GVHD an early form called acute GVHD that occurs soon after the transplant when the white cells are on the rise and a late form called chronic GVHD.

T mediated atopic diseases include but are not limited to atopic dermatitis or eczema eosinophilia asthma allergy allergic rhinitis and Ommen s syndrome.

As used herein allergy refers to acquired hypersensitivity to a substance allergen . Allergic conditions include eczema allergic rhinitis or coryza hay fever asthma urticaria hives and food allergies and other atopic conditions.

As used herein asthma refers to a disorder of the respiratory system characterized by inflammation narrowing of the airways and increased reactivity of the airways to inhaled agents. Asthma is frequently although not exclusively associated with atopic or allergic symptoms. For example asthma can be precipitated by exposure to an allergen exposure to cold air respiratory infection and exertion.

As used herein the terms infection and equivalently infectious disease refer to a condition in which an infectious organism or agent is present in a detectable amount in the blood or in a normally sterile tissue or normally sterile compartment of a subject. Infectious organisms and agents include viruses bacteria fungi and parasites. The terms encompass both acute and chronic infections as well as sepsis.

As used herein the term sepsis refers to the presence of bacteria bacteremia or other infectious organisms or their toxins in the blood septicemia or in other tissue of the body.

Further provided is a compound of Formula I or II or a metabolite tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or salt thereof for use as a medicament in the treatment of the diseases or conditions described above in a warm blooded animal such as a mammal for example a human suffering from such disease or condition. Also provided is the use of a compound of Formula I or II or a metabolite tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or salt thereof in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the diseases and conditions described above in a warm blooded animal such as a mammal for example a human suffering from such disorder.

This invention also encompasses pharmaceutical compositions containing a compound of Formula I or II or a metabolite tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or salt thereof and methods of treating conditions and disorders treatable by modulation of TLR8 mediated cellular activities by administering a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I or II or a metabolite tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or salt thereof to a patient in need thereof.

In order to use a compound of Formula I or II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate metabolite or prodrug thereof for the therapeutic treatment including prophylactic treatment of mammals including humans it is normally formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice as a pharmaceutical composition. According to this aspect of the invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition that comprises a compound of Formula I or II or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate metabolite or prodrug thereof as defined hereinbefore in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier.

To prepare the pharmaceutical compositions according to this invention a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or II or a metabolite tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or salt thereof alone or together with an additional therapeutic agent as disclosed herein is intimately admixed for example with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier according to conventional pharmaceutical compounding techniques to produce a dose. A carrier may take a wide variety of forms depending on the form of preparation desired for administration e.g. oral or parenteral. Examples of suitable carriers include any and all solvents dispersion media adjuvants coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents sweeteners stabilizers to promote long term storage emulsifiers binding agents thickening agents salts preservatives solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents flavoring agents and miscellaneous materials such as buffers and absorbents that may be needed in order to prepare a particular therapeutic composition. The use of such media and agents with pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with a compound of Formula I or II its use in the therapeutic compositions and preparations is contemplated. Supplementary active ingredients can also be incorporated into the compositions and preparations as described herein.

The compositions of the invention may be in a form suitable for oral use for example as tablets lozenges hard or soft capsules aqueous or oily suspensions emulsions dispersible powders or granules syrups or elixirs for topical use for example as creams ointments gels or aqueous or oily solutions or suspensions for administration by inhalation for example as a finely divided powder or a liquid aerosol for administration by insufflation for example as a finely divided powder or for parenteral administration for example as a sterile aqueous or oily solution for intravenous subcutaneous or intramuscular dosing or as a suppository for rectal dosing . For example compositions intended for oral use may contain for example one or more coloring sweetening flavoring and or preservative agents.

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable excipients for a tablet formulation include for example inert diluents such as lactose sodium carbonate calcium phosphate or calcium carbonate granulating and disintegrating agents such as corn starch or algenic acid binding agents such as starch lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc preservative agents such as ethyl or propyl p hydroxybenzoate and anti oxidants such as ascorbic acid. Tablet formulations may be uncoated or coated either to modify their disintegration and the subsequent absorption of the active ingredient within the gastrointestinal tract or to improve their stability and or appearance in either case using conventional coating agents and procedures well known in the art.

Compositions for oral use may be in the form of hard gelatin capsules in which the active ingredient is mixed with an inert solid diluent for example calcium carbonate calcium phosphate or kaolin or as soft gelatin capsules in which the active ingredient is mixed with water or an oil such as peanut oil liquid paraffin or olive oil.

Aqueous suspensions generally contain the active ingredient in finely powdered form together with one or more suspending agents such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose hydroxypropylmethylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinyl pyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia dispersing or wetting agents such as lecithin or condensation products of an alkylene oxide with fatty acids for example polyoxethylene stearate or condensation products of ethylene oxide with long chain aliphatic alcohols for example heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and a hexitol such as polyoxyethylene sorbitol monooleate or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides for example polyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The aqueous suspensions may also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or propyl p hydroxybenzoate anti oxidants such as ascorbic acid coloring agents flavoring agents and or sweetening agents such as sucrose saccharine or aspartame .

Oily suspensions may be formulated by suspending the active ingredient in a vegetable oil such as arachis oil olive oil sesame oil or coconut oil or in a mineral oil such as liquid paraffin . The oily suspensions may also contain a thickening agent such as beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents such as those set out above and flavoring agents may be added to provide a palatable oral preparation. These compositions may be preserved by the addition of an anti oxidant such as ascorbic acid.

Dispersible powders and granules suitable for preparation of an aqueous suspension by the addition of water generally contain the active ingredient together with a dispersing or wetting agent suspending agent and one or more preservatives. Suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents are exemplified by those already mentioned above. Additional excipients such as sweetening flavoring and coloring agents may also be present.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may also be in the form of oil in water emulsions. The oily phase may be a vegetable oil such as olive oil or arachis oil or a mineral oil such as for example liquid paraffin or a mixture of any of these. Suitable emulsifying agents may be for example naturally occurring gums such as gum acacia or gum tragacanth naturally occurring phosphatides such as soya bean lecithin esters or partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides for example sorbitan monooleate and condensation products of the said partial esters with ethylene oxide such as polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The emulsions may also contain sweetening flavoring and preservative agents.

Syrups and elixirs may be formulated with sweetening agents such as glycerol propylene glycol sorbitol aspartame or sucrose and may also contain a demulcent preservative flavoring and or coloring agent.

The pharmaceutical compositions may also be in the form of a sterile injectable aqueous or oily suspension which may be formulated according to known procedures using one or more of the appropriate dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. For parenteral formulations the carrier will usually comprise sterile water aqueous sodium chloride solution 1 3 butanediol or any other suitable non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent. Other ingredients including those that aid dispersion may be included. Of course where sterile water is to be used and maintained as sterile the compositions and carriers must also be sterilized. Injectable suspensions may also be prepared in which case appropriate liquid carriers suspending agents and the like may be employed.

Suppository formulations may be prepared by mixing the active ingredient with a suitable non irritating excipient that is solid at ordinary temperatures but liquid at the rectal temperature and will therefore melt in the rectum to release the drug. Suitable excipients include for example cocoa butter and polyethylene glycols.

Topical formulations such as creams ointments gels and aqueous or oily solutions or suspensions may generally be obtained by formulating an active ingredient with a conventional topically acceptable vehicle or diluent using conventional procedures well known in the art.

Compositions for administration by insufflation may be in the form of a finely divided powder containing particles of average diameter of for example 30 m or much less the powder itself comprising either active ingredient alone or diluted with one or more physiologically acceptable carriers such as lactose. The powder for insufflation is then conveniently retained in a capsule containing for example 1 to 50 mg of active ingredient for use with a turbo inhaler device such as is used for insufflation of the known agent sodium cromoglycate.

Compositions for administration by inhalation may be in the form of a conventional pressurized aerosol arranged to dispense the active ingredient either as an aerosol containing finely divided solid or liquid droplets. Conventional aerosol propellants such as volatile fluorinated hydrocarbons or hydrocarbons may be used and the aerosol device is conveniently arranged to dispense a metered quantity of active ingredient.

Compositions for transdermal administration may be in the form of those transdermal skin patches that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Other delivery systems can include time release delayed release or sustained release delivery systems. Such systems can avoid repeated administrations of the compounds increasing convenience to the subject and the physician. Many types of release delivery systems are available and known to those of ordinary skill in the art. They include polymer base systems such as poly lactide glycolide copolyoxalates polycaprolactones polyesteramides polyorthoesters polyhydroxybutyric acid and polyanhydrides. Microcapsules of the foregoing polymers containing drugs are described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 109. Delivery systems also include non polymer systems that are lipids including sterols such as cholesterol cholesterol esters and fatty acids or neutral fats such as mono di and tri glycerides hydrogel release systems silastic systems peptide based systems wax coatings compressed tablets using conventional binders and excipients partially fused implants and the like. Specific examples include but are not limited to a erosional systems in which an agent of the invention is contained in a form within a matrix such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 452 775 4 675 189 and 5 736 152 and b diffusional systems in which an active component permeates at a controlled rate from a polymer such as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 854 480 5 133 974 and 5 407 686. In addition pump based hardware delivery systems can be used some of which are adapted for implantation.

For further information on formulations see Chapter 25.2 in Volume 5 of Comprehensive Medicinal Chemistry Corwin Hansch Chairman of Editorial Board Pergamon Press 1990 which is specifically incorporated herein by reference.

The amount of a compound of this invention that is combined with one or more excipients to produce a single dosage form will necessarily vary depending upon the subject treated the severity of the disorder or condition the rate of administration the disposition of the compound and the discretion of the prescribing physician. However an effective dosage is in the range of about 0.001 to about 100 mg per kg body weight per day for example about 0.5 to about 35 mg kg day in single or divided doses. For a 70 kg human this would amount to about 0.0035 to 2.5 g day such as about 0.05 to about 2.5 g day. In some instances dosage levels below the lower limit of the aforesaid range may be more than adequate while in other cases still larger doses may be employed without causing any harmful side effect provided that such larger doses are first divided into several small doses for administration throughout the day. For further information on routes of administration and dosage regimes see Chapter 25.3 in Volume 5 of Corwin Hansch Chairman of Editorial Board Pergamon Press 1990 which is specifically incorporated herein by reference.

The size of the dose for therapeutic or prophylactic purposes of a compound of Formula I or II will naturally vary according to the nature and severity of the conditions the age and sex of the animal or patient and the route of administration according to well known principles of medicine. It will be understood that the specific dosage level and frequency of dosage for any particular subject may be varied and will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the specific compound of Formula I or II the species age body weight general health sex and diet of the subject the mode and time of administration rate of excretion drug combination and severity of the particular condition but can nevertheless be routinely determined by one skilled in the art.

A compound of Formula I or II will in some embodiments be administered to an individual in combination e.g. in the same formulation or in separate formulations with another therapeutic agent combination therapy . The compound of Formula I or II can be administered in admixture with another therapeutic agent or can be administered in a separate formulation. When administered in separate formulations a compound of Formula I or II and another therapeutic agent can be administered substantially simultaneously or sequentially.

Such combination treatment may involve in addition to the compounds of the invention conventional surgery or radiotherapy or chemotherapy. Such chemotherapy may include one or more of the following categories of anti tumor agents i antiproliferative anti neoplastic drugs and combinations thereof ii cytostatic agents iii agents which inhibit cancer cell invasion iv inhibitors of growth factor function v antiangiogenic agents vi vascular damaging agents vii antisense therapies viii gene therapy approaches ix interferon and x immunotherapy approaches.

Therapeutic agents for treating respiratory diseases which may be administered in combination with a compound of Formula I or II in a subject method include but are not limited to beta adrenergics which include bronchodilators including albuterol isoproterenol sulfate metaproterenol sulfate terbutaline sulfate pirbuterol acetate and salmeterol formotorol steroids including beclomethasone dipropionate flunisolide fluticasone budesonide and triamcinolone acetonide. Anti inflammatory drugs used in connection with the treatment of respiratory diseases include steroids such as beclomethasone dipropionate triamcinolone acetonide flunisolide and fluticasone. Other anti inflammatory drugs include cromoglycates such as cromolyn sodium. Other respiratory drugs which would qualify as bronchodilators include anticholenergics including ipratropium bromide. Anti histamines include but are not limited to diphenhydramine carbinoxamine clemastine dimenhydrinate pryilamine tripelennamine chlorpheniramine brompheniramine hydroxyzine cyclizine meclizine chlorcyclizine promethazine doxylamine loratadine and terfenadine. Particular anti histamines include rhinolast Astelin claratyne Claritin claratyne D Claritin D telfast Allegra Zyrtec and beconase.

In some embodiments a compound of Formula I or II is administered as a combination therapy with interferon gamma IFN gamma a corticosteroid such as prednisone prednisolone methyl prednisolone hydrocortisone cortisone dexamethasone betamethasone etc. or a combination thereof for the treatment of interstitial lung disease e.g. idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

In some embodiments a compound of Formula I or II is administered in combination therapy with a known therapeutic agent used in the treatment of CF. Therapeutic agents used in the treatment of CF include but are not limited to antibiotics anti inflammatory agents DNAse e.g. recombinant human DNAse pulmozyme dornase alfa mucolytic agents e.g. N acetylcysteine Mucomyst Mucosil decongestants bronchodilators e.g. theophylline ipatropium bromide and the like.

In another embodiment of the invention an article of manufacture or kit containing materials useful for the treatment of the disorders described above is provided. In one embodiment the kit comprises a container comprising a composition of Formula I or II or a metabolite tautomer solvate or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug or salt thereof. In one embodiment the invention provides a kit for treating a TLR8 mediated disorder. In another embodiment the invention provides a kit for a condition or disorder treatable by modulating the immune system in a subject. The kit may further comprise a label or package insert on or associated with the container. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container holds a compound of Formula I or II or a pharmaceutical formulation thereof in an amount effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice. In one embodiment the label or package inserts indicates that the composition comprising a compound of Formula I or II can be used for example to treat a disorder treatable by modulation of TLR8 mediated cellular activities. The label or package insert may also indicate that the composition can be used to treat other disorders. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

The kit may further comprise directions for the administration of the compound of Formula I or II and if present the second pharmaceutical formulation. For example if the kit comprises a first composition comprising a compound of Formula I or II and a second pharmaceutical formulation the kit may further comprise directions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of the first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof.

In another embodiment the kits are suitable for the delivery of solid oral forms of a compound of Formula I or II such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit includes for example a number of unit dosages. Such kits can include a card having the dosages oriented in the order of their intended use. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms. If desired a memory aid can be provided for example in the form of numbers letters or other markings or with a calendar insert designating the days in the treatment schedule in which the dosages can be administered.

According to one embodiment the kit may comprise a a first container with a compound of Formula I or II contained therein and optionally b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a second compound which may be effective in treating a condition or disorder treatable by selective modulation of TLR8 mediated cellular activities. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

In certain other embodiments wherein the kit comprises a pharmaceutical formulation of a compound of Formula I or II and a second formulation comprising a second therapeutic agent the kit may comprise a container for containing the separate formulations such as a divided bottle or a divided foil packet however the separate compositions may also be contained within a single undivided container. Typically the kit comprises directions for the administration of the separate components. The kit form is particularly advantageous when the separate components are administered in different dosage forms e.g. oral and parenteral are administered at different dosage intervals or when titration of the individual components of the combination is desired by the prescribing physician.

In order to illustrate the invention the following examples are included. However it is to be understood that these examples do not limit the invention and are only meant to suggest a method of practicing the invention. Persons skilled in the art will recognize that the chemical reactions described may be readily adapted to prepare a number of other compounds of the invention and alternative methods for preparing the compounds of this invention are also deemed to be within the scope of this invention. For example the synthesis of non exemplified compounds according to the invention may be successfully performed by modifications apparent to those skilled in the art e.g. by appropriately protecting interfering groups by utilizing other suitable reagents known in the art other than those described and or by making routine modifications of reaction conditions. Alternatively other reactions disclosed herein or known in the art will be recognized as having applicability for preparing other compounds of the invention.

In the examples described below unless otherwise indicated all temperatures are set forth in degrees Celsius. Reagents were purchased from commercial suppliers such as Aldrich Chemical Company Lancaster TCI or Maybridge and were used without further purification unless otherwise indicated.

The reactions set forth below were done generally under a positive pressure of nitrogen or argon or with a drying tube unless otherwise stated in anhydrous solvents and the reaction flasks were typically fitted with rubber septa for the introduction of substrates and reagents via syringe. Glassware was oven dried and or heat dried.

Column chromatography was done on a Biotage system Manufacturer Dyax Corporation having a silica gel column or on a silica SepPak cartridge Waters . H NMR spectra were recorded on a Varian instrument operating at 400 MHz. H NMR spectra were obtained as CDClor DMSO dsolutions reported in ppm using chloroform as the reference standard 7.25 ppm . Other NMR solvents were used as needed. When peak multiplicities are reported the following abbreviations are used s singlet d doublet t triplet m multiplet br broadened dd doublet of doublets dt doublet of triplets . Coupling constants when given are reported in Hertz Hz .

Step A Preparation of 2 2 nitrobenzylamino acetonitrile 1 2 aminoacetonitrile hydrochloride salt 3.67 g 39.7 mmol was added to a solution of 2 nitrobenzaldehyde 5.00 g 33.1 mmol dissolved in anhydrous MeOH 30 mL . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 5 minutes to achieve solution. NaCNBH 2.08 g 33.1 was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure then diluted with EtOAc 50 mL . The organics phase was washed with saturated NaHCO 30 mL and brine 30 mL dried over NaSO and concentrated to give 4.20 g 22.0 mmol 66 yield of 2 2 nitrobenzylamino acetonitrile 1 as a tan oil 4.20 g 22.0 mmol 66 yield . The material was used without purification in the next step.

Step B Preparation of ethyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 2 Pyridine 151 mg 1.91 mmol was added to a CHClsolution 20 mL containing 2 2 nitrobenzylamino acetonitrile 1 122 mg 0.638 mmol . The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. under a nitrogen atmosphere and ethyl chloroformate 0.182 mL 1.914 was added dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and then washed with 1N HCl 50 mL and brine 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting oil was purified by column chromatography Biotage 40 m 100 CHCl to provide 97 mg 0.37 mmol 58 yield of ethyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 2 as a yellow oil.

Step C Preparation of E ethyl 2 amino 3H benzo e 1 4 diazepine 4 5H carboxylate 3 To a solution of ethyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 2 227 mg 0.862 mmol dissolved in acetic acid 5 mL under a nitrogen atmosphere was added Fe 289 mg 5.17 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated to 90 C. for 4 hours then cooled to room temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting brown oil was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and filtered over GF F paper rinsing with 10 mL of EtOAc . The organic phase was washed with saturated NaCO 20 mL and brine 20 mL dried over NaSO and concentrated. The resulting brown oil was purified by column chromatography 5 MeOH CHCl then 20 MeOH CHCl to provide 52 mg 0.223 mmol 26 yield of E ethyl 2 amino 3H benzo e 1 4 diazepine 4 5H carboxylate 3 as a tan solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.17 1.25 m 3H 3.81 s 2H 4.02 4.12 m 2H 4.23 s 2H 6.79 br s 1H 6.85 6.92 m 2H 7.18 7.24 m 2H .

Step A Preparation of 2 2 nitro 4 perfluoroethyl benzylamino acetonitrile 4 Compound 4 was prepared in a similar manner to that described in Example 1 Step A substituting 2 nitro 4 perfluoroethyl benzaldehyde for 2 nitrobenzaldehyde to provide 83 mg 0.27 mmol 42 yield of the desired product.

Step B Preparation of ethyl 2 nitro 4 perfluoroethyl benzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 5 Compound 5 was prepared in a similar manner to that described in Example 1 Step B substituting 2 2 nitro 4 perfluoroethyl benzylamino acetonitrile 4 for 2 2 nitrobenzylamino acetonitrile 1 to provide 69 mg 0.18 mmol 68 yield of the desired product.

Step C Preparation of E ethyl 2 amino 8 perfluoroethyl 3H benzo e 1 4 diazepine 4 5H carboxylate 6 Compound 6 was prepared in a similar manner to that describe in Example 1 Step C substituting ethyl 2 nitro 4 perfluoroethyl benzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 5 for ethyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 2 to provide 2.5 mg 4 yield of the desired product. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.26 1.37 m 3H 3.94 3.99 m 2H 4.21 4.22 m 2H 4.39 4.45 m 2H 5.00 br s 1H 7.24 7.36 m 3H .

Step A Preparation of 2 1 2 nitrophenyl ethylamino acetonitrile 7 This compound was prepared in a similar manner to that described in Example 1 Step A substituting 1 2 nitrophenyl ethanone for 2 nitrobenzaldehyde to provide 2.40 g 11.7 mmol 56 yield of the desired product.

Step B Preparation of ethyl cyanomethyl 1 2 nitrophenyl ethyl carbamate 8 This compound was prepared in a similar manner to that described in Example 1 Step B substituting 2 1 2 nitrophenyl ethylamino acetonitrile 7 for 2 2 nitrobenzylamino acetonitrile 1 to provide 75 mg 27 mmol 32 yield of the desired product.

Step C Preparation of E ethyl 2 amino 5 methyl 3H benzo e 1 4 diazepine 4 5H carboxylate 9 This compound was prepared in a similar manner to E ethyl 2 amino 3H benzo e 1 4 diazepine 4 5H carboxylate 3 substituting ethyl cyanomethyl 1 2 nitrophenyl ethyl carbamate 8 for ethyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 2 to provide 2.6 mg 0.011 mmol 13 yield of the desired product. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.26 br s 3H 1.40 d 3H 3.45 3.58 br s 1H 4.15 4.29 m 2H 4.44 br s 1H 4.97 br s 1H 7.03 7.06 m 2H 7.18 7.31 m 2H .

Step A Preparation of 2 2 nitrobenzylamino acetonitrile 1 Compound 1 was prepared as in Example 1 Step A.

Step B Isopropyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 10 Compound 1 was prepared in a similar manner to that described in Example 1 Step B substituting isopropyl chloroformate for ethyl chloroformate to provide 270 mg 0.974 mmol 41 yield of the desired product.

Step C E isopropyl 2 amino 3H benzo e 1 4 diazepine 4 5H carboxylate 11 This compound was prepared in a similar manner to that described in Example 1 Step C substituting isopropyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 10 for ethyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 2 to provide 3.2 mg 0.013 mmol 1 yield of the desired product. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.35 br s 6H 3.86 3.97 m 2H 4.36 4.45 m 2H 4.98 5.02 m 1H 7.02 7.08 m 2H 7.20 7.38 m 2H .

Step A Preparation of 2 2 nitrobenzylamino acetonitrile 1 Compound 1 was prepared as in Example 1 Step A.

Step B Preparation of n propyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 12 Compound 12 was prepared from compound 1 in a similar manner to that described in Example 1 Step B substituting n propyl chloroformate for ethyl chloroformate to provide 64 mg 0.23 mmol 36 yield of the desired product.

Step C Preparation of E propyl 2 amino 3H benzo e 1 4 diazepine 4 5H carboxylate 13 Compound 13 was prepared in a similar manner to that described in Example 1 Step C substituting n propyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 12 for ethyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 2 to provide 6.8 mg 0.028 mmol 13 yield of the desired product. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 0.87 0.94 m 3H 1.59 1.66 m 2H 4.03 4.05 m 2H 4.35 s 1H 4.50 br s 2H 4.59 s 1H 6.89 d 1H 7.09 7.15 m 1H 7.22 7.33 m 2H 7.62 br d 1H .

Step A Preparation of 2 2 nitrobenzylamino acetonitrile 1 Compound 1 was prepared as in Example 1 Step A.

Step B Preparation of isobutyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 14 Compound 14 was prepared in a similar manner to that described in Example 1 Step B substituting isobutyl chloroformate for ethyl chloroformate to provide 43.2 mg 0.148 mmol 14 yield of the desired product.

Step C Preparation of E isobutyl 2 amino 3H benzo e 1 4 diazepine 4 5H carboxylate 15 Compound 15 was prepared in a similar manner to that described in Example 1 Step C substituting isobutyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 14 for ethyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 2 to provide 2.8 mg 0.011 mmol 7 yield of the desired product. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 0.95 1.10 m 6H 2.00 m 1H 3.90 3.97 m 4H 4.37 4.41 m 2H 7.03 7.06 m 2H 7.20 7.39 m 2H .

Step A Preparation of 2 2 nitrobenzylamino acetonitrile 1 Compound 1 was prepared as in Example 1 Step A.

Step B Preparation of 1 2 nitrobenzyl 1 cyanomethyl 3 3 diethylurea 16 Compound 16 was prepared in a similar manner to that described in Example 1 Step B substituting diethylcarbamic chloride for ethyl chloroformate to provide 24.9 mg 0.0858 mmol 19 yield of the desired product.

Step C Preparation of E 2 amino N N diethyl 3H benzo e 1 4 diazepine 4 5H carboxamide 17 Compound 17 was prepared in a similar manner to that described in Example 1 Step C substituting 1 2 nitrobenzyl 1 cyanomethyl 3 3 diethylurea 16 for ethyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 2 to provide 2.6 mg 0.01 mmol 11 yield of the desired product. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.19 t 6H 3.33 q 4H 3.66 s 2H 4.11 s 2H 7.01 7.05 m 2H 7.18 d 1H 7.31 t 1H .

Step A Preparation of 2 1 2 nitrophenyl ethylamino acetonitrile 18 2 Nitrobenzylamine 513 mg 3.37 mmol was added to an acetonitrile 40 mL containing KCO 932 mg 6.74 mmol and 2 bromopropanitrile 677 mg 5.06 mmol under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction mixture was heated to 65 C. for 14 hours. The product 18 was used without purification or concentration in the next step.

Step B Preparation of ethyl cyanomethyl 1 2 nitrophenylethyl carbamate 19 To the acetonitrile solution containing 2 1 2 nitrophenyl ethylamino acetonitrile 18 from the previous step was added saturated NaHCO 5 mL and ethyl chloroformate 1.83 g 16.86 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at room temperature for 14 hours. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc 50 mL and washed with brine 40 mL . The separated organic phase was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purification Biotage 40 s 3 1 CHCl hexanes then 100 CHCl provided 37.1 mg 0.134 mmol 4 yield of ethyl cyanomethyl 1 2 nitrophenyl ethyl carbamate 19 as a light yellow oil.

Step C Preparation of E ethyl 2 amino 3 methyl 3H benzo e 1 4 diazepine 4 5H carboxylate 20 This compound was prepared in a similar manner to that described in Example 1 Step C substituting ethyl cyanomethyl 1 2 nitrophenyl ethyl carbamate 19 for ethyl 2 nitrobenzyl cyanomethyl carbamate 2 to provide 3.1 mg 0.013 mmol 9 yield of the desired product. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.01 d 3H 1.25 1.34 m 3H 4.13 4.23 m 3H 4.70 br d 2H 6.95 7.03 m 2H 7.20 d 1H 7.30 t 1H .

Human embryonic kidney HEK cells which stably express various human TLR genes including TLR8 and a NFkB luciferase reporter gene were incubated with various concentrations of compound overnight. The amount of induced luciferase was measured by reading the absorbance at 650 nm. Compounds of this invention have an MCof 100 M or less wherein MCis defined as the concentration at which 50 of maximum induction is seen.

Peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs from human blood were isolated using BD Vacutainer Cell Preparation Tubes with sodium citrate. Cells were incubated with compound overnight. TLR8 activity was assayed by measuring the amount of TNF in supernatants by ELISA. Compounds of this invention had an MCof 100 M or less wherein MCis the concentration at which 50 of the maximum induction is seen.

The foregoing description is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and process shown as described above. Accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope of the invention as defined by the claims that follow.

The words comprise comprising include including and includes when used in this specification and in the following claims are intended to specify the presence of stated features integers components or steps but they do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers components steps or groups thereof.

