---

title: Method and apparatus for sharing and managing resource availability
abstract: An example approach is provided for sharing and managing resource availability information. One or more resource availability information is received. Further, one or more requests to access the one or more resource availability messages are received from at least one consuming device. Access to the one or more resource availability messages is reserved based, at least in part, on the one or more requests.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600780&OS=09600780&RS=09600780
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 09600780
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20120330
---
This application is a continuation in part of prior application Ser. No. 12 955 877 filed Nov. 29 2010 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Service providers e.g. wireless and cellular services and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services and advancing the underlying technologies. One area of interest has been the development of services and technologies where users consumers could share information related to availability of one or more resources. Generally there are users who know of availability of the resources e.g. vehicle parking spaces picnic spaces at a park sport activity courts etc. and would like to share this information with other users and or with service providers. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical challenges to enabling the exchange of information regarding availability of resources.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for sharing managing and providing resource availability information from and to users.

According to one embodiment a method comprises receiving one or more resource availability messages from one or more contributing devices. The method also comprises receiving one or more requests to access the one or more resource availability messages from at least one consuming device. The method additionally comprises determining to reserve access to the one or more resource availability messages based at least in part on the one or more requests.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to receive one or more resource availability messages from one or more contributing devices. The apparatus is additionally caused to at least in part receive one or more requests to access the one or more resource availability messages from at least one consuming device. The apparatus is further caused to at least in part determine to reserve access to the one or more resource availability messages based at least in part on the one or more requests.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to receive one or more resource availability messages from one or more contributing devices. The apparatus is additionally causes to at least in part receive one or more requests to access the one or more resource availability messages from at least one consuming device. The apparatus is further caused to at least in part determine to reserve access to the one or more resource availability messages based at least in part on the one or more requests.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for receiving one or more resource availability messages from one or more contributing devices. The apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part receiving one or more requests to access the one or more resource availability messages from at least one consuming device. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part determining to reserve access to the one or more resource availability messages based at least in part on the one or more requests.

According to another embodiment a method comprises facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on one or more resource availability messages from one or more contributing devices and or one or more requests to access the one or more resource availability messages from at least one consuming device. The method also comprises at least one determination to reserve access to the one or more resource availability messages based at least in part on the one or more requests.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for sharing and managing resource availability information are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As certain resources are in high demand and or are difficult to locate one or more users can share availability and other information about one or more resources. In one embodiment of the approach described herein crowdsourcing in a community can be used by one or more users to share such resource availability information with one or more other users and or with a central management platform which can manage organize and share the information with the users. As used herein crowdsourcing refers generally to the process of submitting information problems queries etc. to a community of users and the receiving responses solutions etc. based on the collective information of the community. Sharing of such information can have many benefits for example reduced time and effort for the users to locate the one or more resources less environment impact e.g. reduced pollution smog traffic etc. improved user experience positive economic impact and or the like.

To facilitate sharing of such information a resource management platform as described in more detail below may be utilized for instance to coordinate the sharing of the information among one or more users who report and or request resource availability information. More specifically one or more of the participating users may report resource availability information and or request resource availability information. Further the resource management platform will receive the resource availability information receive requests for resource availability information coordinate manage and share the information with the users.

By way of example potential resources that can be managed by the resource management platform are parking spots or spaces. Generally a parking space in a crowded urban area is a precious resource that impacts driver stress levels daily productivity and the environment. Further the difference between supply and demand for parking spaces can cause a spectrum of environmental health and safety issues where drivers keep vehicles on the road in the process of circling usually slowly the areas where they want to locate a parking space which can lead to lengthy queues of vehicles that can block several streets. In addition increased acceleration deceleration and braking behavior while circling an area can significantly impact automobile emissions. Moreover parking issues also adds to driver stress levels which may lead to increased driver frustration road rage and accidents. Therefore a reservation system that would enable a user driver to buy reserve a parking space near at an intended destination prior to leaving user s current location and before arriving at the intended destination could significantly ease the user s concerns with locating a parking space when arriving at the intended destination. In one example a contributing CT user e.g. a seller can generate and or transmit a resource availability message to the resource management platform and or any number of the other users. Further the CT user may use a contributing device to communicate with the central management platform CMP one or more other user devices a service provider a communication network and the like. Furthermore a contributing device may communicate substantially automatically and or independently e.g. with and or without user participation with the central management platform another user device a service provider a communication network and the like. In one embodiment the resource availability message can at least include information on a location of the parking space identification ID information about the CT user s vehicle associated with the parking space and an estimated time as to when the parking space will become available. In one embodiment a CT user device can execute a client application e.g. HTML based to identify the parking location for example by capturing GPS coordinates identifying the location e.g. on a mapping application in combination with information from a device at the parking location etc. . Additionally the ID of the CT user vehicle can at least complement possible inaccuracy of GPS information for example where a GPS signal may be weak or difficult to obtain e.g. in a downtown full of high rise buildings in a garage structure etc. . Further we can use indoor positioning system based on for example Wi Fi RFID and the like technologies. Furthermore one or more other IDs e.g. license plate vehicle make color etc. may be used to assist the consumer CS e.g. a buyer user in locating the parking space. Moreover the CS user may use a consuming device to communicate with the central management platform one or more other user devices a service provider a communication network and the like. Furthermore a consuming device may communicate substantially automatically and or independently e.g. with and or without user participation with the central management platform another user device a service provider a communication network and the like.

In some embodiments the resource availability information is made available in exchange for for example virtual points game points monetary value points and or the like. In one scenario the RM platform rewards a CT user when the CT user generates and or reports a resource availability message. In one embodiment e.g. in the example with respect to parking spaces the resource availability message is referred to as a when to leave WTL message which specifies a particular resource or resources e.g. parking spaces and when those resources will be available e.g. when the CT user will leave or vacate the occupied resource . For example the rewards provided by the RM platform may include any form of reward. In one embodiment one or more points e.g. D points are awarded once the message is received at the RM platform and additional one or more e.g. S points are awarded once the message is sold or made available to a CS user. This example approach can lead the CS user to successfully find and utilize a parking space and report the successful utilization. It is noted that although various embodiments are discussed with respect to parking space resources it is contemplated that the various embodiments of the approach described herein are applicable to any resource that can be exchanged or transferred among users e.g. personal spaces sports courts seating space at a bar seating space at a sports stadium seating space at a concert etc. .

In certain embodiments a resource includes one or more resources such as location based resources that are limited in availability may or may not require previous reservation are available for a limited time and or are in demand by one or more users. Furthermore the location resources include geographic location based resources such as a vehicle parking space e.g. for an automobile a watercraft a motorcycle etc. a personal space e.g. a pick nick site at a park a beach spot a sporting court etc. . Moreover the location resources include resources at an establishment e.g. at a library at a bar at a sports arena at a sports complex at a sports park etc. located indoor and or outdoor reserved and or not reserved and the like. Furthermore the limited availability of the resources can be due to one or more factors. One such factor may be the total quantity of the resources of the sort e.g. there may be a certain number of vehicle parking spaces available at a parking lot . Another factor may include the availability of the resources at a particular time and or location e.g. a limited quantity of parking spaces or sports courts may be available at a particular location at a certain time . In many instances one or more available resources may be consumed utilized by one or more users in a relatively short amount of time.

In one scenario as previously discussed a user is utilizing a location based resource and will be releasing that resource within a short amount of time e.g. the resource will become available and the user can share that information with one or more other users and or with a central resource management platform . For example a user has a vehicle parked at a parking space which the user intends to release within a short amount of time. The user shares the information related to the parking space such as at least the parking space location time the parking space will become available and or other information related to the parking space. The CT user can include when to leave WTL time in the resource information shared with the resource management platform. The WTL can indicate at least in part an estimated time at which the CT user intends to release the resource e.g. a parking space . The WTL can assist the RM platform in sharing and managing the information with one or more CS users.

In certain scenarios it is more likely that a user may have a greater chance to acquire a resource which the user is interested in if the user has access to the resource availability information when compared to a user without access to such information. For example a user may be seeking a vehicle parking space near a beach on a busy day. The user can request parking space availability information near the user location and or near a known location from a RM platform . Further with the resource availability information the user has a better chance of locating and obtaining the parking space before other users do. Moreover a resource e.g. a parking space can be in an isolated location and difficult to find quickly but with the resource location information a user can locate the resource quickly. For example a parking space may be in a parking garage structure near a shopping center and isolated but with resource availability information a user can quickly find the parking space. In another example a pick nick site may be available near a lake however with many users seeking a pick nick site a user with resource availability information regarding the pick nick site can potentially locate and access the site before other users do.

Further in various embodiments a contributing CT device a consuming CS device and or the RM may substantially automatically communicate with each other for sending and receiving required information items in order to reduce efforts and involvement of a CT and or a CS user in a crowd sourced parking system. More specifically one or more client applications and or algorithms e.g. a crowd parking application may be executed e.g. in foreground or background on a device e.g. a CT device a CS device etc. to automatically detect a change of an event associated with a movement of a user and the device with accessing of a location based resource and provide associated information and reports to the RM platform . In one embodiment a client application consists of two views a CT user e.g. seller view and a CS user e.g. buyer view where the CT user view may contain various modules such as a reservation module a verification module e.g. ActCheck and the like. The reservation module may allow a CT user to submit messages for sale and reward to the CT user according to the reservation results. In one embodiment a WTL message lifetime may be tagged with one or more information items indicating state of the WTL message such as CREATED SOLD EXPIRED PARKED CONFIRMED and LOST where LOST could indicate that the parking space was is taken consumed by another driver e.g. a hidden driver. The verification module may utilize an activity recognition technique e.g. algorithms sensors accelerometer etc. on the user device e.g. a mobile phone to detect if activities performed by the CT user is consistent with one or more expected activities. For example a CT user may be expected to be walking between a WTL message submission and a leaving time and be within a moving vehicle after the leaving time. Furthermore the verification module may request and or receive an additional message from the CT user to indicate Leaving Now LN message that informs the system that the CT user is leaving at a particular time. Although the leaving time can be inferred from the activity an LN message can provide more explicit and accurate information to the system. System of introduces the capability of sharing managing and coordinating resource availability information among one or more users. In one embodiment user equipment UEs also collectively known as UEs may be utilized to share and access resource availability information via a resource management RM platform e.g. a central management platform over a communication network . In certain embodiments RM platform e.g. a computing device may be utilized to manage resources also collectively known as resources coordinate and facilitate communications between UEs and or with resources for sharing reporting and acquiring of resource availability information e.g. location of a resource availability time etc. . In one embodiment the RM platform may be deployed and or operated on one or more UEs .

Further the resources can communicate with one or more other resources UEs service platform one or more components of communication network . Users may execute one or more applications e.g. a mapping application client application a messaging application a resource acquisition application a resource availability information sharing application etc. on the UEs to access the resource management platform as well as other platforms such as service platform that may be accessible via the communication network . The service platform can provide one or more services e.g. location based services mapping information social networking services etc. to one or more users. Further in certain embodiments the UEs may be utilized to communicate via the communication network with RM platform to share and or acquire resource availability information. In other embodiments other devices e.g. a navigation device a navigation device of a vehicle etc. may be utilized to share and or acquire the resource availability information. Although various embodiments are described with respect to location resources it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other types of resources.

As noted above in certain embodiments the UE includes a resource availability sharing and acquisition application . Although various embodiments are described with respect to the resource availability application it is contemplated that the approaches described herein may be performed or partially performed by other applications e.g. location based services mapping social networking etc. . The application may be in certain scenarios a program that utilizes an application programming interface API to utilize one or more services of the resource management platform and or service platform . The resource availability application may further be a widget that can be installed and executed in a web page or a web runtime engine or a native program. Widgets are light weight applications and provide a convenient means for rendering information and accessing services.

In one embodiment the resource availability application enables the user to initiate resource availability information sharing and or request e.g. to share the location of an available parking space request for information on one or more available parking spaces . The resource availability application can send a message to the RM platform identifying one or more resources that the user wishes to identify as available and or that the user wishes to access. This information may be associated with resources . Then information about the one or more resources can be reported to the RM platform service platform and or to one or more other users. Further the user may provide resource information that may be utilized to specify the resource the user desires. It is noted that although some of the example embodiments refer to a vehicle parking space a resource can be any resource for example a sports court a seat at a bar a seat at a sports stadium a picnic space a seating space at a beach and the like.

In another embodiment the RM platform returns at least a list of nearby WTL messages within certain range specified by the CS user. Each list item is a WTL message overview which includes information such as location and hourly parking rate. In embodiments where the resource is another type of resource other than parking spaces the resource availability message e.g. the WTL message may specify one or more characteristics of the resource e.g. the capacity of a picnic table available amenities etc. . However the one or more WTL information are not disclosed to CS users until the CS user commits and requests to purchase the information. In another scenario the RM platform may show one or more WTL information based at least on or more criteria. For example one or more WTL messages can be listed sorted by amount of time from current timestamp.

In another embodiment a CS user accepts to purchase or otherwise retrieve one or more WTL messages. If a CS user purchases a WTL message one or more e.g. N points are deducted from the CS user account and deposited with the RM platform . The N points will then be used to reward the CT user for the one or more WTL messages.

In another embodiment the RM platform updates the status of the CT WTL message and the CS user request. For example the RM platform relays a leaving now message LN from the CT user to the CS user. The LN message indicates to the CS user that the parking space is and or will become available in the very near future. Further the RM platform relays a when to arrive WTA message from the CS user to the CT user. A WTA message can be generated by the CS user by the RM platform and or a combination thereof. For example a WTA message includes at least in part a CS user s estimated time of arrival to acquire consume or utilize one or more resources. Further a WTA message can be a resource use message generated at least in part by a CS user.

In another embodiment user privacy may be protected by not disclosing one or more parameters included in WTL information. For instance the WTL messages can be listed while concealing the absolute position information of the CT user and or the resource.

In another embodiment a CS user can confirm whether the parking space was successfully acquired. Once the confirmation is received at the RM platform the status of the resource availability message can be updated. If a CS user confirms that acquiring the parking space was successful RM platform rewards one or more S points to the CT user and one or more N S points back to the CS user as for example discount of buying the resource availability parking space information. However if the CS user confirms that acquiring the resource parking space was unsuccessful then the RM platform refunds one or more points R points out of the N points back to the CS user. Additionally the RM platform may deduct one or more T points from the CT user and or cause input to CT user account information e.g. at a social networking site reputation rating credibility etc. .

In one embodiment one or more incentives are provided to the CS user for providing actual feedback on utilization of the one or more resources whereby the actual feedback substantially indicates whether acquiring the one or more resources was successful or not. Further the RM platform controls awarding of N S R and T in order for the CS user to gain a substantial value for providing actual success feedback e.g. truthful to the RM platform For example the CS user can be awarded N S points when confirming one or more resource utilization and further one or more S points upon reselling the one or more resources which potentially can be greater than the R refund points for indicating that the CS user was unsuccessful in acquiring the one or more resources. In another example a CS user can have more incentives to provide substantially truthful feedback when compared to proving a false feedback for obtaining a refund of one or more points.

In another embodiment a CS user can confirm unsuccessful resource acquisition by providing one or more information. For example a CS user reported that a reserved parking space e.g. on third floor section C of a parking structure based on a WTL message is not available. Additionally if the CS user utilizes a different parking space on fourth floor section D and later provides a WTL message on the other parking space which proves to be an available resource by a second CS user then the CS user may receive a full refund of one or more N points instead of partial refund of one or more points R . In another embodiment a CS user can request a SpotCheck whereby the CS user can provide one or more evidence that the CS user did not utilize the one or more resources indicated the one or more WTL messages and can request a full refund. For example the CS user can send one or more pictures from one or more locations indicating location of the CS user the CS device the CS vehicle and the like.

In another embodiment CT users may be restricted to a number of attempts on selling one or more WTL messages so to at least prevent reduce the possibility of malicious CT users and or robots from spamming the RM platform . For example one or more restricting mechanism can be by time and by location of the CT user. In one instance a CT user may have at most 3 unsold confirmed failed WTL messages within a time window e.g. an hour . Further Ct user may have at most 3 unsold confirmed failed WTL messages within a range of 1 square mile in one day. Moreover another mechanism SpotCheck can be employed to enquire CT and CS users to provide information in scene proof that the CT and or the CS users are located at claimed locations e.g. to prove that a CT and or CS vehicle instead of a user device is at the claimed location at a claimed time. For example an in scene proof can include a geo tagged image of the car plate a Geo tagged message including an ID number retrieved from the vehicle system e.g. via Bluetooth and the like. Alternatively in another embodiment one or more WTL and or LN messages received at the RM platform can be compared to the location of the CT user and or the CT user device. For example one or more WTL messages can be compared to location of the CT user and or the CT user device to verify one or more criteria for example whether the CT user and or the CT user device are substantially at or near the resource identified in the WTL message the CT user and or the CT user device are non stationary e.g. movement detection via one or more user device sensors such as an accelerometer the CT user has reported one or more other WTL messages and the like. In another embodiment the LN message is analyzed against one or more criteria for example to determine the CT user and or the CT user device location and to determine whether the CT user and or the CT user device are moving e.g. movement detection via one or more user device sensors such as an accelerometer . In one scenario the CT user and or the CT user device e.g. a user vehicle are moving away from the location identified in the LN message.

In another embodiment if a CT user and or a CT user device are detected as moving e.g. in a vehicle activity recognition after sending the WTL and the LN messages it can be determined that the CT user and or the CT user device can potentially be a malicious user user device that randomly carelessly and or intentionally create one or more WTLs. Further once a user is detected being away from a user device e.g. a vehicle in both cases it can be determined that the user is potentially a malicious user creating one or more WTLs. Further once noted above technique is used potentially in conjunction with a geo tagged based technique it can reduce the frequency of using a geo tagged based technique. Moreover the activity recognition based technique can be used in conjunction with geo tagged location technique e.g. providing a geo tagged photo to avoid potential CT users from being mischaracterized in the RM platform service providers and or other users.

In another embodiment a CS user needs to deposit one or more N points with the RM platform to obtain a WTL message. For example a CS user wishes to find a parking space in 15 minutes and deposits one or more N points with the RM platform to know if there are any Ct users leaving in 15 minutes. If there is none the one or more N points are refunded immediately but if there is at least one the WTL information is presented to the CS user and blocked from view by other CS users.

In another embodiment rate of substantially successful resource acquisition e.g. obtain a parking space loose reservation system etc. can at least indicate how a crowdsourcing resource availability system performs. If the rate is close to 1 then the loose reservation system has close performance to an exclusive reservation system. One or more criteria at least in part influencing the success rate can be the time X when a CT user makes the resource available and the time Y when a CS user is available to acquire the resource. For example if Y is a less than but substantially close to X e.g. the CS user may see the CT user releasing the resource then the success rate may be substantially close to 1. Further if Y is greater than but substantially close to X then the success rate may still be substantially close to 1.

In another embodiment the RM platform can provide a service whereby one or more CT users CT user devices CS users and or CS user devices can substantially communicate with one or more of the aforementioned user and or devices in order to share one or more messages. The RM platform can perform as an intermediary service whereby the service can provide a mechanism for the users and or the user devices to exchange one or more messages e.g. WTL WTA LN and the like via one or more communications methods e.g. SMS MMS IM emails voice calls and the like . Furthermore the CT users devices CS users devices can choose accept to communicate directly with one or more of the aforementioned in order to exchange information messages and the like. Moreover the RM platform can provide one or more methods for the users and or the devices to establish and continue direct and or assisted communications while substantially maintaining anonymity and privacy. Assisted and or direct communications between the CT users devices and CS users device potentially can increase the success rate of sharing resource availability information and successful acquiring of the one or more available resources.

In certain embodiments the RM platform assumes that both X and Y follow a Gaussian distribution. In one embodiment the distributions of X and Y can be determined and or calculated from historical data. By way of example the RM platform builds the historical data using WTL messages LN messages WTA messages and CS s confirmation with respect to resources previously mediated by the RM platform . In one case the time difference between WTL and LN explains the standard deviation of X distribution while the time difference between WTA and confirmation denotes the standard deviation of Y distribution. Since the difference of two Gaussian distributions is still a Gaussian distribution the distribution of Y X can be determined as well according to for instance the following equations   2   2      2  2 

As discussed above in addition to rewarding users for sharing information associated with availability of a location based resource e.g. parking space automation and simplification of the reporting process is another important incentive wherein the users only need to launch an application e.g. a crowd parking application and keep it running e.g. in foreground or background. In one embodiment an activity recognition engine e.g. in the crowd parking application is executed and begins collecting samples e.g. sampling of an accelerometer sensor on the user device. In one example the sampling of the accelerometer is duty cycled e.g. 25 seconds active and 100 seconds sleep example sampling rate of 20 Hz so to reduce energy consumption at the user device.

In another embodiment accelerometer readings are utilized to determine e.g. infer whether or not a user device is in a driving mode e.g. a user carries a device in a driving vehicle. For example accelerometer data can be used to distinguish driving from other activities such as running walking or stationary. Further the accelerometer may be aligned e.g. remove a gravity component in sampling information such that the accelerometer sampling can be utilized to derive a user speed change. Furthermore a predetermined sampling time is utilized to remove any distortions e.g. jitter in the accelerometer sampling data. Moreover one or more processes are utilized e.g. low pass filter high pass filter Fourier Transform etc. to obtain low frequency and high frequency components for distinguishing driving activity from other activities.

In one use case scenario a GPS localization process is also duty cycled to reduce energy consumption at the user device. In one example of a GPS system utilizes an initialization time of about 30 seconds a GPS sampling process may also be duty cycled as one minute active and five minutes sleep. The GPS sampling process can also remove the false alarms from the accelerometer based driving state inference. In another embodiment the GPS sampling information are utilized to confirm verify a state inferred by sampling the accelerometer readings e.g. reducing eliminating false state inferences. In use case scenario if the GPS information and the accelerometer sensor readings do not substantially agree as to the user state e.g. driving then GPS sampling is not utilized again until another sampling of the accelerometer sensor indicates a new event e.g. driving. 

In one embodiment the activity recognition engine detects a change from a driving event to a non driving event e.g. walking stopped etc. Once the accelerometer sensor detects and or indicates a change from driving to non driving event then the GPS information is also utilized to confirm the change. Further if the GPS information e.g. speed confirms the change from driving to non driving and if the accelerometer sensor on the device detects a change from a stationary event to a walking event then the crowd parking application determines that the user potentially had a parking event e.g. parked the user vehicle at a parking space and further the crowd parking application determines e.g. via GPS via cellular network information via WLAN etc. a substantially accurate location of the parking space. Furthermore the crowd parking application may cause a transmission of one or more information items associated with the parking event including a time and parking space location to the RM platform . In another embodiment the user and or one or more other users may receive the one or more information items associated with the parking event and or view the information displayed on a map application. In one use case scenario the one or more other users may review the one or more information items e.g. elapsed time of parking associated with a parking event at a given parking space and estimate a possible time when the given parking space may become available and plan to be there at around that time.

In one embodiment a user may define in a user profile as to when where how and if the user wishes to participate in and utilize the crowd parking system. In another embodiment the crowd parking system may automatically determine a region a time of day a time of week a time month in conjunction with a user profile to determine if a user may wish to utilize the crowd parking system. For example the crowd parking system can determine that a user may require a parking space in a busy area e.g. downtown area in San Francisco during a weekend during a holiday and the like. In one embodiment once the activity recognition engine determines that the user is in a driving mode e.g. a user carries a device in a driving vehicle and will require assistance with locating a parking space the crowd parking application utilizes location information e.g. GPS to determine user location.

As discussed above the crowd sourced parking system can also provide an estimation of time on when a user may be releasing a specific parking space so that other users may accordingly plan to arrive at the specific parking space if they wish to utilize it. The users can also benefit by not having to search and or wait e.g. additional time buffer before the parking space may be available which can alleviate frustrations and wait times usually associated with locating a parking space is a crowded environment. In various embodiments the RM platform further automates estimation of leaving time associated with a user and a parking space being utilized by the user. The automation mechanism can significantly reduce the manual input and operation required of a user while reducing potential human error in estimating the leaving time. In various use scenarios it can be difficult and frustrating for users to provide an estimation of when the user may be releasing a parking space while there may be various factors which may cause unforeseen changes to the user schedule.

In one embodiment the system determines at least one geo fence e.g. one or more circular rings encompassing the one or more locations wherein the one or more resource availability messages are initiated based at least in part on a monitoring of location information associated with the one or more contributing devices with respect to the at least one geo fence. In one use case scenario the RM platform determines e.g. calculates a set of three geo fences e.g. circular rings hexagons octagons etc. wherein a parking space is a center point for the set. For example an inner most geo fence e.g. circular may have a radius of 50 meters which may correspond to about one minute of walking for a user. Further a second geo fence e.g. circular may have a radius of about 100 meters which may correspond to about two minutes of walking for a user. Furthermore an outermost geo fence has a radius of 200 meters which may correspond to about four minutes of walking for a user. In another embodiment the one or more activity states are based at least in part on one or more transportation events including at least in part a walking event a driving event a parking event or a combination thereof. For example one or more sensors on the device such as an accelerometer and GPS may be utilized to detect if a user is driving fast moving pedestrian walking stopped and the like. Further once a change of an event is detected e.g. driving stopping walking etc. the client application on the device may determine and transmit a GPS location and a timestamp of the event indicating that the user has begun walking driving bicycling stopped parked the user vehicle at a parking space and the like. In another embodiment the system may utilize one or more WLAN and or cellular network information items to determine the change of an event associated with the device.

In another embodiment a user parks a user vehicle and the RM platform begins the process to determine a movement direction of the user e.g. while carrying the device. Initially the user is in the innermost geo fence. Further the geo fence may have various numbers of elements e.g. many circles and once the user begins moving away from the vehicle and the parking space the user begins crossing the elements of the geo fence e.g. crossing first second third etc. circles away from the vehicle. Conversely once the user begins moving walking back toward the vehicle parking space the user will cross the elements of the geo fence for example crossing the outermost first then next one and next one and the like until the user is back in the innermost element e.g. at center of geo fence .

In various embodiments the RM platform and or a client application on the device may estimate a user leaving time as the user is walking back toward the parking space vehicle. For example one or more estimates may be for the crossing of each of the one or more geo fence elements. In another embodiment if a trace path from the outermost fence to the 2nd fence points to the parking space within an angle of less than 30 degree the estimation may be that the user is walking toward the parking space. In another example if the trace from the outer fence to the second fence cannot conclude anything the RM platform may continue tracking the trace from the second fence to the innermost fence. Further if the trace from the second fence to the innermost fence points to the parking space then the estimation may be that the user is walking toward the parking space. In another example if the trace from the outer geo fence ring to the second ring is not clear e.g. not sure then the system may continue tracking the user movement for more information.

In another embodiment the GPS sampling process may be suspended when the user reaches the outermost fence. Further an accelerometer based step counter may be initiated to begin counting of the displacement of the user. In one example if the GPS sampling is turned off for about 30 seconds when the user reaches outermost fence e.g. 30 seconds is about one half of the walking time from the outermost fence to the second fence and if the user decides to walk directly back to the parking space vehicle after just crossing the outermost fence there still will be sufficient time to trace the user location make an estimation of the user leaving time.

It is noted that the above discussion and descriptions are only example embodiments calculations and ratios where further methods may be utilized for similar results.

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UE resource management platform and service platform communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application headers layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the resource management platform includes a communication interface . The communication interface can be used to communicate with a UE . The resource management platform can receive information from the UE via the communication interface via methods such as internet protocol MMS SMS GPRS or any other available communication method. The UE can send information to the resource management platform for many reasons such as to update the status of applications executing on the UE as well as to update the acquisition status of the resource updating user data etc. Further the runtime module may utilize the communication interface to provide status updates to the UE . Further the runtime module may utilize the service API e.g. in conjunction with the communication interface to interact with applications and or other applications platforms and or the like.

The scheduling module may additionally be updated using the communication interface . The scheduling module may be utilized to schedule resource acquisition and or resource availability information. Schedules and or alerts may be stored in the memory and or user data . The scheduling module may change scheduling alerts based on user input. Further the scheduling module may use the communication interface to communicate with other services e.g. RM platform that may provide the runtime module with updates to the acquisition event. In this manner the runtime module may monitor changes to the acquisition event e.g. if the resource availability and or acquisition time changes .

The user status module can track the status of UEs . The status may be utilized to determine if one or more users have enough credits user location information user calendar information. Further the user status module may be utilized by the runtime module to provide alerts to the UEs via the communication interface to update the users of the status of the other users. In certain embodiments resource availability applications on the UEs may be configured to send a ready or online status message or confirmation to the service platform when the user is ready. The resource availability application may require that a user manually provide input that the user is ready to attempt to acquire the one or more resources. In other embodiments the user status module may request that UEs send a user status message e.g. via an internet connection via SMS via MMS or via another communication method . Further the user status module may additionally receive status updates from users indicating whether the user has been able to acquire one or more requested resources. During and or after the resource acquisition the runtime module may update the status of one or more resources based on updates from the users UEs .

In one embodiment the UE includes a power module . The power module provides power to the UE . The power module can include any type of power source e.g. battery plug in etc. . Additionally the power module can provide power to the components of the UE including processors memory and transmitters.

The communication interface may include multiple means of communication. For example the communication interface may be able to communicate over SMS internet protocol instant messaging voice sessions e.g. via a phone network or other types of communication. The communication interface can be used by the execution module to communicate with other UEs the resource management platform resources and other devices. In some examples the communication interface is used to transmit information e.g. resource availability information user status information etc. to the service platform .

In one embodiment a UE includes a user interface . The user interface can include various methods of communication. For example the user interface can have outputs including a visual component e.g. a screen an audio component a physical component e.g. vibrations and other methods of communication. User inputs can include a touch screen interface a scroll and click interface a button interface etc. In certain embodiments the user interface may additionally have a vocal user interface component. As such a text to speech mechanism may be utilized to provide textual information to the user. Further a speech to text mechanism may be utilized to receive vocal input and convert the vocal input into textual input. Moreover the user interface may be utilized to present status information as to the status of a resource and or resource availability information.

In certain embodiments a resource availability application may run on the execution module . The resource availability application may utilize the user interface to receive information regarding an available resource and or acquisition of the resource. Further this information may be transmitted via the communication interface to the RM platform . Moreover the information may be utilized by a resource availability module to alert the user about an available resource for acquisition. The resource availability module may additionally or alternatively utilize information from a RM platform e.g. a resource availability message for determining alerts. This information may be stored in the memory until utilized. The resource management module then returns the results of a request to the requesting UE via the output module and the service application programming interface API .

In one embodiment the output module facilitates a creation and or a modification of at least one device user interface element at least one device user interface functionality or a combination thereof based at least in part on information data messages and or signals resulting from any of the processes and or functions of the service platform and or any of its components or modules. By way of example a device user interface element can be a display window a prompt an icon and or any other discrete part of the user interface presented at for instance the UE . In addition device user interface functionality refers to any process action task routine etc. that supports or is triggered by one or more of the user interface elements. For example user interface functionality may enable speech to text recognition haptic feedback and the like. Moreover it is contemplated that the output module can operate based at least in part on processes steps functions actions etc. taken locally e.g. local with respect to a UE or remotely e.g. over another component of the communication network or other means of connectivity .

In one embodiment the location module can determine a user s location. The user s location can be determined by a triangulation system such as a global positioning system GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin wireless local area network triangulation or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use satellites to pinpoint the location e.g. longitude latitude and altitude of the UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . GPS coordinates can provide finer detail as to the location of the UE . As previously noted the location module may be utilized to determine location coordinates for use by the application . In another embodiment the UE may utilize a local area network e.g. WLAN connection to determine the UE location information for example from an Internet source e.g. a service provider .

At step the runtime module causes at least in part receive request to access the resource availability message. In an embodiment one or more users e.g. CS users send one or more requests for accessing resource availability information on one or more resources they desire. The request can include one or more data for example an estimated time that the CS user would need the resource. For example a driver of a vehicle is seeking a vehicle parking space at a venue and expects to be substantially near the venue at a certain time.

Moreover at step the RM platform at least in part determines to reserve access to the resource availability message. In one embodiment the RM platform may have one or more resource availability messages and one or more requests for access to one or more resource availability information whereby the RM platform needs to evaluate the one or more resource availability messages and the one or more requests for determining one or more options present the one or more options to the one or more CS users and reserve access to the resource availability message based at least in part on the evaluation and a CS user selection. For example a driver of a vehicle e.g. a CS user is seeking a vehicle parking space near a shopping mall and the RM platform may have one or more messages indicating that there are one or more spaces available near the CS users requested location. Then the RM platform evaluates the messages and presents one or more options e.g. messages to the CS user. The CS user responds to the RM platform indicating selection of one or more messages. The RM platform reserves the one or more messages for access by the CS user. In another embodiment the RM platform determines a message substantially meeting the requirements of the CS user indicates to the CS user that a resource is available and upon acceptance by the user the RM platform at least in part reserves the message for use by the CS user. Then at step the RM platform determines at least in part to transmit the resource availability message to the CS user.

In step the RM platform processes and or facilitates a processing of one or more sensor information associated with the one or more contributing devices to determine one or more locations associated with the location based resource. For example a UE can record capture and or report one or more GPS and or communication network e.g. cellular WLAN etc. information items in order to ascertain location information of a parking space which a user may be utilizing and or intends to utilize. In one example the user has parked a user vehicle in a parking space.

In step the RM platform determines at least one geo fence encompassing the one or more locations wherein the one or more resource availability messages are initiated based at least in part on a monitoring of location information associated with the one or more contributing devices with respect to the at least one geo fence. In one use case scenario the RM platform determines e.g. calculates a set of three geo fences e.g. circular rings hexagons octagons etc. wherein a parking space is a center point for the set. For example an inner most geo fence e.g. circular may have a radius of 50 meters which may correspond to about one minute of walking for a user. Further a second geo fence e.g. circular may have a radius of about 100 meters which may correspond to about two minutes of walking for a user. Furthermore an outer most geo fence e.g. circular has a radius of 200 meters which may correspond to about four minutes of walking for a user. In another embodiment the one or more activity states are based at least in part on one or more transportation events including at least in part a walking event a driving event a parking event or a combination thereof. For example one or more sensors on the device such as an accelerometer and GPS may be utilized to detect if a user is driving fast moving pedestrian walking stopped and the like. Further once a change of an event is detected e.g. driving stopping walking etc. the client application on the device may determine and transmit a GPS location and a timestamp of the event indicating that the user has begun walking driving bicycling stopped parked the user vehicle at a parking space and the like. In another embodiment the system may utilize one or more WLAN and or cellular network information items to determine the change of an event associated with the device.

In step the RM platform and or one or more applications on the UE process and or facilitate a processing of the one or more sensor information to determine one or more activity states one or more transitions between the one or more activity states or a combination thereof wherein the determination of the one or more locations the at least one geo fence or a combination thereof is further based at least in part on the one or more activity states. For example a CT device e.g. a mobile phone executes one or more algorithms in a client application e.g. a crowd parking application and utilizes one or more motion sensors e.g. an accelerometer and GPS information to detect one or more movement activities e.g. driving walking etc. associated with the CT device. In one use case scenario an activity recognition engine e.g. in the crowd parking application is executed and begins collecting samples e.g. sampling on an accelerometer sensor on the user device. In one embodiment the sampling of the accelerometer is duty cycled for example as 25 seconds active and 100 seconds sleep so to reduce energy consumption at the user device wherein an example sampling rate is 20 Hz.

In step the RM platform processes and or facilitates a processing of the one or more sensor information to determine a reentry of the one or more contributing devices within the at least one geo fence. In one example a geo fence includes two circular rings e.g. centered around a parking space vehicle wherein the user is on the outside of the outermost ring e.g. the second ring . Further the user walks toward the parking space e.g. the vehicle and crosses the boundary of the outermost ring wherein the RM platform is tracking the device movement and determines that the user device is approaching the parking space e.g. only 100 meters away .

In step the RM platform determines an estimated time from the reentry to an end of accessing of the location based resource by the one or more contributing devices. In one example the RM platform has determined that the user has crossed the outermost ring of the geo fence and therefore is about 100 meters away from the parking space. Further the RM platform and or one or more applications may estimate how long it may take for the user to reach the parking space access the user vehicle and release end access of the parking space e.g. it may take about two minutes for the user to release the parking space. In another embodiment the system may determine and or utilize information associated with an angle of approach of the user while crossing a geo fence boundary toward the parking space. For example if the user crosses the second ring with an angle of 30 degree the system may determine estimate that the user is walking toward the vehicle and the parking space. In another example if the trace from the outer geo fence ring to the second ring is not clear e.g. not sure then the system may continue tracking the user movement for more information. Further if an additional trace from the second geo fence ring to the innermost geo fence ring is directed toward the parking space then the system algorithm can estimate a leaving time for the user and a time when the parking space will become available which may be transmitted to the RM platform and or one or more other device.

In step the RM platform causes a transmission of a notification regarding the location based resource based at least in part on the estimated time. In one example the UE may transmit one or more messages indicating availability of the location based resource e.g. a parking space based on one or more information items determined at the UE and or at the RM platform . In another example the RM platform detects and or determines the availability of the location based resource e.g. a parking space and transmits one or more notifications to one or more users and or one or more service providers indicating potential availability parking space.

The processes represented in are the UE corresponding to the CT user the RM platform and the UE corresponding to the CS user.

In the process the CT user via UE sends a resource availability message to at least the RM platform . Once the RM platform receives the message the RM platform at at least causes assignment of one or more reward points to the CT user. At the RM platform receives a request from the CS user including information on one or more required resources time indicating when the resource is required location information of the required resources and or one or more other information related to the required resources and further deposits one or more credit points for example to the RM platform . Further the RM platform evaluates one or more resource availability messages and provides one or more resource availability information to the CS user of UE . At the RM platform provides to the CT user one or more information related to the CS user for example indicating when the CS user will be available to access the available resource. At the CT user sends one or more messages indicating for example that the resource is available now. At the RM platform sends one or more messages to the CS user at least indicating that the resource is available now. At the CS user sends a message to the RM platform indicating at least that the CS user has accessed the resource. At the RM platform assigns one or more credit points to the CT user. At the RM platform at least causes deduction of one or more points from the one or more credit points deposited by the CS user at and at least causes refund of one or more credit points to the CS user. At if the CS user indicates that the one or more resource indicated to be available is not available any longer and that the CS user is not able to access the one or more resources then the RM platform at least causes a partial refund to the CS user of the credit points deposited by the CS user at . However at if the one or more resources identified as available are confirmed to be unavailable then the RM platform at least causes full refund of the credit points back to the CS user.

At user interface includes an example interface utilized to share and or request one or more resource information. In one embodiment the CT user can share information on one or more resources which will be available in the near future. In another embodiment a CS user can request information on one or more resources which the CS user would like to access in the near future. In another embodiment a user can be a CT user and a CS user substantially at the same time. For example a user can provide resource availability information e.g. be a CT user and can request resource availability information e.g. be a CS user substantially at the same time. At user interface user of UE can manage one or more user accounts for example at RM platform at service platform at UE at a social network site and or the like. At user interface a user can exit the user interface.

Further user interface includes an example interface to provide additional information for example location information. At a CS user can specify one or more search options for example a distance to a destination of the CS user estimated time of arrival at the destination indicate type of resource required and the like. At the user may change one or more options and at the user e.g. a CS user may execute the request. At the user can cancel all or portion of one or more actions via the user interface .

Furthermore user interface is utilized to indicate additional information on one or more available resources. At one or more information can be sorted by time and at the information can be sorted by distance for example from a user location to the one or more available resources. At one or more resource information may be presented to the user and at the user can execute the request to receive the resource information for example to buy the information. At the user can review e.g. go back the one or more resource information and or user actions.

At examples of various user interfaces are utilized to indicate information on one or more available resources. Interface is utilized to indicate additional information on the one or more available resources. Indicator indicates location of the user for example on a mapping application and indicates destination location of the user. Indicator indicates the location of the available resource which the CS user has requested and will attempt to utilize. Additionally a resource can be identified for example by geographical location information geographical location address a designating number and the like.

Indicator presents a time when a resource will be available and indicates information for the CS user for example a suggested time for the CS user to be near and or at the location of the resource. Indicators and present one or more options for the CS user to indicate for example whether the one or more identified resources were utilized successfully. Furthermore the user can cause one or more requests for example request a refund via of one or more credits e.g. monetary credit gaming credit social network credit etc. and indicate one or more reasons via for the refund request.

At examples of various user interfaces are utilized to indicate information on one or more vehicle parking spaces. User interface is utilized to indicate location information of the parking space for example in a parking garage on a street in a parking lot etc. Further additional information can be indicated via menu options for example whether the parking space requires a fee a compact vehicle space a well lit space and the like. User interface is utilized to indicate for example when the parking space will be available. Indicators and allow a user to submit additional information related to the resource availability WTL and the like. User interface indicates further information on the parking space for example distance to the parking space parking section information and additional options to indicate the information on a mapping application. User interface allows the user to submit additional information for example type of vehicle color of vehicle credits required to obtain the resource availability information and the like.

With the above example approaches a coordinated system to share and manage resource availability information is provided. In this manner coordination between users to acquire resources and or resource availability information can be substantially automated and provided in real time. The coordination system allows for the real time access for sharing and managing resource availability information between users interested in sharing and or acquiring resource availability information. The real time access allows for the users to know when and where one or more resources may be available. Further the system provides for sharing managing and coordinating the resource availability information among users.

The processes described herein for sharing and managing resource availability information may be advantageously implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to sharing and managing resource availability information. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for sharing and managing resource availability information. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for sharing and managing resource availability information is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma screen or printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys or motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for the UE service platform RM platform and resources .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to share and manage resource availability information. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of sharing and managing resource availability information. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to share and manage resource availability information. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

