---

title: Sight-restoring visual prosthetic and method using infrared nerve-stimulation light
abstract: An improved prosthesis and method for stimulating vision nerves to obtain a vision sensation that is useful for the patient that has lost vision due to AMD, RP, and other diseases. The invention utilizes infrared light to cause action potentials in the retinal nerves similar to those which result from rods and cones stimulated by visible light in healthy retinas. In some embodiments, the invention provides a prosthesis that generates a stimulation pattern of infrared light from an external stimulator array through the eye and focusing the stimulation pattern of infrared light on the retina, especially the fovea. Some embodiments the invention provides improved resolution down to a group of nerves, or even the individual nerve level, with sufficient energy density so as to cause a desired action potential.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08945197&OS=08945197&RS=08945197
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 08945197
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120615
---
This application claims priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 514 894 filed Aug. 3 2011 by Michael E. Friend et al. titled SIGHT RESTORING VISUAL PROSTHETIC AND METHOD USING INFRARED NERVE STIMULATION LIGHT which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates generally to methods and apparatus for nerve stimulation and more particularly to image processing and emission of optical signals such as with pulsed infrared light for stimulation of nerves in a human s eyes to obtain a sensation of vision.

For many patients suffering from retinal degenerative diseases such as advanced or age related macular degeneration AMD and retinitis pigmentosa RP there has been little hope for maintaining vision. Every year 700 000 new cases of AMD in the U.S. are diagnosed and 10 of those patients will become legally blind. There are presently no cures for these debilitating diseases and at best current treatments only slow the disease progression. The overall social and economic impact of AMD and RP is immense and the importance of treating blindness is profound as this is a problem of significant scope and breadth. There is an unmet need to treat this ailment by developing a visual prosthetic with a large number e.g. thousands of stimulation channels to realistically restore sight using infrared light to stimulate the retinal nerves. Advanced macular degeneration and retinitis pigmentosa are both degenerative diseases that degrade vision in patients and eventually can lead to blindness.

Researchers have artificially stimulated various parts of the human nervous system for many years as a way to restore lost or damaged neural function of various systems in the human body. Neuroprosthetic devices circumvent non functioning physiological structures hair cells in the ear rods and cones in the eye which would normally transduce an external stimulus sound light into an action potential. Presently there are numerous efforts underway to develop neuroprostheses to restore sight at various interventional anatomical locations in the subretina the epiretina the optic nerve and in the visual cortex. These devices apply an electric current pulse to stimulate the neurons of the visual system which is inherently hindered by a lack of spatial selectivity. Electrical current spread leads to imprecise nerve stimulation and limits the ability of the neuroprosthesis to restore function. The limitation of spatial selectivity is based on fundamental physical principles of electrical stimulation. To date after 20 years of development electrical implants are just now hoping to make the jump to 64 channel systems from 16 channel systems. This is far less than the thousands of channels estimated to be needed for a good vision prosthetic. The technology is further limited by the fact that physical contact is required with tissue which can lead to damage over time. Implantation of a complex powered device in very close proximity to sensitive neural tissue forms a significant drawback to this approach making it impossible to update the technology without further risky surgeries.

There have been rudimentary attempts to stimulate the retinal nerves with electrical signals which are being conducted by various groups globally. For example the Argus II implantable device by Second Sight Medical Products Inc. 12744 San Fernando Road Building 3 Sylmar Calif. 91342 U.S.A. which is intended to treat profoundly blind people suffering from degenerative diseases such as RP. The Second Sight Medical Products Inc. Argus II system works by converting video images captured from a miniature camera housed in the patient s glasses into a series of small electrical pulses that are transmitted wirelessly to an epiretinal prosthesis array of electrodes implanted inside the eye on the retina. These pulses then stimulate the retina s remaining cells resulting in the corresponding perception of patterns of light in the brain. Patients supposedly learn to interpret these visual patterns thereby gaining some functional vision.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 079 900 issued Jul. 18 2006 to Greenberg et al. titled Electrode Array for Neural Stimulation is incorporated herein by reference. Greenberg et al. describe a retinal prosthesis to restore color vision by electrically stimulating areas of undamaged retinal cells which remain in patients with lost or degraded visual function. There are three main parts one is external to the eye the second part is internal to the eye and the third part communicates between those two parts. The external part has color imaging means CCD or CMOS video camera an eye tracker a head motion tracker a data processor a patient s controller a physician s local controller a physician s remote controller and a telemetry means. The color data is processed in the video data processing unit and encoded by time sequences of pulses separated by varying amounts of time and also with the pulse duration being varied in time. The basis for the color encoding is the individual color code reference. Direct color stimulation is another operational basis for providing color perception. The electrodes stimulate the target cells so as to create a color image for the patient corresponding to the original image as seen by the video camera. The physician s test unit can be used to set up or evaluate and test the implant during or soon after implantation.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 914 842 issued Mar. 29 2011 to Greenberg et al. titled Method of Manufacturing a Flexible Circuit Electrode Array is incorporated herein by reference. Greenberg et al. describe polymer materials and electrode array bodies for neural stimulation especially for retinal stimulation to create vision. The method lays down a polymer layer applies a metal layer to the polymer and pattern to create electrodes and leads and applies a second polymer layer over the metal layer and pattern to leave openings for electrodes. The array and its supply cable are a single body.

Electrical stimulation represents a major challenge in developing implantable devices with long term system performance while reducing their overall size. The Boston Retinal Implant Project has identified long term biocompatibility as one of the most significant challenges to be met in order to develop a successful retinal prosthesis. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 324 429 issued Nov. 27 2001 to Shire et al. titled Chronically Implantable Retinal Prosthesis is incorporated herein by reference. Shire et al. describe a chronically implantable retinal prosthesis for the blind which will restore some useful vision to patients over at least several degrees of their former field of view. These thin strong and flexible epiretinal devices are constructed of or encapsulated in known biocompatible materials which will have a long working life in the eye s saline environment. The function of the implants is to electrically stimulate the ganglion cell layer at the surface of the retina using controlled current sources. Due to the exceptionally low mass of the implant and its flexible nearly planar form patient discomfort and fluid drag caused by the implant minimized. These physical attributes also substantially reduce the potential of harm to the most delicate structure of the eye the retina and therefore enhance the long term safety and biocompatibility of the device. Since no micro cables are required to be attached to the device and its overall form and edges are rounded the device is not expected to stress the retina during chronic implantation. A provision is also made for nutrients to reach the retinal cells underneath the device for their long term health.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 908 010 issued Mar. 15 2011 to Greenberg et al. titled Retinal Prosthesis with Side Mounted Inductive Coil is incorporated herein by reference. Greenberg et al. describe a retinal prosthesis with an inductive coil mounted to the side of the eye by means of a strap around the eye. This allows for close coupling to an external coil and movement of the entire implanted portion with movement of the eyeball.

Electrical stimulation as described in the above devices and patents is limited since the spread of electricity does not allow separate or independent stimulation of individual retinal nerve cells or even small enough groups of nerve cells for sharp or clear vision. This electrical stimulation technology is severely limited as electricity spreads in human tissue and thus will severely limit the number of stimulation sites. Electrical stimulation thus greatly limits the number of sites that could be separately stimulated. Additionally the electrical stimulation approach will require implantation of a powered e.g. an electrically powered device which has significant difficult issues associated with obtaining power into the eye and using the power by devices in the eye.

An implant has been developed which refocuses the light normally aimed at the fovea region of the retina to the periphery of the retina. This approach is limited as there is a high degree of integration on the periphery of the fovea that again will severely limit resolution.

Other work is being done in the area of optogenetics wherein a virus is used to genetically sensitize nerve cells to certain wavelengths of light e.g. PCT publication WO 2010 011404 A2 titled Vectors for Delivery of Light Sensitive Proteins and Methods of Use which is incorporated herein by reference. Attempts have been made to sensitize nerve cells to optical light via injection of foreign DNA optogenetic engineering . This area may have some potential however it will require significant development work it involves injecting a virus into nerve tissue which may have significant side effects and FDA approval issues and the virus is only partially taken up by nerve cells.

Materials that are compatible with the eye are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 254 637 to Jin Hak Lee et al. titled Artificial Cornea and Implantation Thereof U.S. Pat. No. 6 391 055 to Yoshito Ikada et al. titled Artificial Cornea U.S. Pat. No. 6 976 997 to Noolandi et al. titled Artificial Cornea U.S. Pat. No. 7 857 849 to David Myung et al. titled Artificial corneal implant and U.S. Pat. No. 7 909 867 to David Myung et al. titled Interpenetrating Polymer Network Hydrogel Corneal Prosthesis each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Numerous digital light projection micro electro mechanical system MEMS devices exist. For example U.S. Pat. No. 4 566 935 issued to Hornbeck on Jan. 28 1986 titled Spatial Light Modulator and Method is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Hornbeck described methods of fabrication of spatial light modulators SLMs with deflectable beams by plasma etching after dicing of a substrate into chips each of the chips an SLM. Various architectures available with such plasma etching process were disclosed and include metal cloverleafs for substrate addressing metal flaps formed in a reflecting layer over a photoresist spacer layer and torsion hinged flaps in a reflecting layer.

As another MEMS display example U.S. Pat. No. 7 776 631 issued to Miles on Aug. 17 2010 titled MEMS Device and Method of Forming a MEMS Device and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Miles described light in the visible spectrum being modulated using an array of modulation elements and control circuitry connected to the array for controlling each of the modulation elements independently each of the modulation elements having a surface which is caused to exhibit a predetermined impedance characteristic to particular frequencies of light.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 177 081 issued to Tomita et al. on Feb. 13 2007 titled High Contrast Grating Light Valve Type Device and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Tomita et al. describe a grating light valve with a plurality of spaced reflective ribbons that are spatially arranged over a substrate with reflective surfaces. The grating light valve is configured to optimize the conditions for constructive and destructive interference with an incident light source having a wavelength . The grating light valve preferably has a set of movable active ribbons alternating between the set of stationary bias ribbons. In operation active ribbons are moved by a multiple of 4 to switch between the conditions for constructive and destructive interference.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 720 189 issued Jan. 19 1988 to Heynen et al. titled Eye Position Sensor is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Heynen et al. describe an eye position sensor for use in an eye activated optical transducer in which a spatial filter is used to modify light reflected from the eye to form a substantially rectangular pattern on a quadrantal array of contiguous sensors. This arrangement provides a substantially linear change in the output signal from the sensors in response to an equivalent movement of the eye.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 055 110 issued Apr. 25 2000 to Kintz et al. titled Compact Display System Controlled by Eye Position Sensor System is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Kintz et al. describe a virtual image display system is provided which is made thinner through the use of an immersed beam splitter and in one embodiment total internal reflection. The display system includes an imaging surface on which a source object is formed a first optical element having a reflective function and a magnification function a second optical element having a magnification function and an immersed beam splitting element positioned between the first and second optical elements the immersed beam splitting element including a beam splitter surrounded by an optically transparent material having a refractive index greater than air. An illumination source projects the source object formed at the imaging surface through the optically transparent material to the beam splitter. The beam splitter reflects the projected source object to the first optical element. The first optical element magnifies the projected source object and reflects a magnified virtual image of the projected source object to the beam splitter. The magnified virtual image traverses the beam splitter to the second optical element which magnifies the magnified virtual image to produce a compound magnified virtual image of the source object.

Yet there remains a need in the art for an improved prosthesis and method for stimulating vision nerves to obtain a vision sensation that is more useful for the person.

The present invention uses infrared nerve stimulation INS technology that exploits infrared light and or other optical wavelengths to cause action potentials in nerve cells in the eye. In recent years optical stimulation technology has been developed to stimulate nerves. This INS technology can achieve much higher precision and selectivity of stimulation than is possible using electrical current to trigger nerve action potentials. In some embodiments the present technology uses pulsed infrared lasers to excite the neural tissue next to the retina directly and without tissue damage. The advent of this technology represents a paradigm shift in artificial nerve stimulation because it allows a high degree of spatial selectivity of neural stimulation without the need for tissue contact.

The present invention provides a prosthetic system and method for restoring vision that was lost to advanced macular degeneration AMD retinitis pigmentosa RP or other causes. Infrared light nerve stimulation INS is a technology that uses infrared light to trigger nerve action potentials NAPs in various nerves of an animal. The cells being stimulated are not necessarily the retina cone and rod cells themselves which retina cone and rod cells are normally associated with receiving visible light having wavelengths in the range of about 400 nm to about 700 nm and that emit NAPs based on the visible light received to these cells. Instead the cells stimulated by the present invention are typically cells in and or near the nerves leading from the retina. The present invention leverages INS but applies it in a new manner. For the present invention INS is used to stimulate the retinal nerves those nerves between the light sensitive cones and rods of the retina the usual source of nerve action potentials for sight and the optic nerve that exits the eye of a person the patient . These retinal nerves are essentially insensitive to visible light however nerve action potential signals can be triggered by application of pulsed light particularly light that has an infrared wavelength in the range of about 1800 nm to about 1900 nm. In some embodiments images are first captured with a miniaturized camera and translated into infrared light stimulation signals i.e. changed from signals representing visible light colors and intensities at each of an array of pixel positions into a series of signal pulses having durations repetition frequencies and positions that may be different than the positions and temporal intensities that would directly correspond to the original image positions and intensities that are then transmitted into the eye from a two dimensional 2D vertical cavity surface emitting laser VCSEL array e.g. a grid of rows and columns of independently operable vertical cavity surface emitting lasers or other suitable light source s and imaging modalities.

In the present invention the wavelength s power s and or energy s of the light and or light pulses emitted from the laser elements in the VCSEL array and the locations toward which the light is directed are optimized in order to most efficiently stimulate the retinal nerves i.e. to obtain the desired nerve response without damaging the nerves being stimulated and without drawing too much power from the power supply of the prosthesis. In some embodiments the camera s processor s and VCSEL array s are all packaged into a pair of eyeglasses like device or other headwear that is worn by the person. In some embodiments in order to facilitate propagation of the infrared stimulation light to the retinal nerves a passive light focussing and transmitting implant e.g. a polymer conduit is surgically implanted within the eye of the patient. In some embodiments this implant is made of an acrylic or other suitable polymer glass or other material that transmits well in the infrared IR region and which is commonly used for certain ocular implants or specifically developed i.e. having the desired specific gravity focussing transparency bio compatibility characteristics and the like for use with the present invention. In some embodiments this ocular implant also includes one or more lenses and in order to appropriately focus and direct the path of the infrared stimulation light. In some embodiments the implant length extends a considerable distance through the posterior chamber of the eye such that the optical path distance of the stimulating light within vitreous humor is minimized in some embodiments while maintaining a sufficient layer or film of vitreous humor at the back of the eye for the proper physiological functioning of the retina and optic nerves . In some embodiments the implant is anchored in the region of the lens while in other embodiments a mount on one or more other surfaces of the eye is included.

In some embodiments the sources of infrared for stimulating nerves from the light sensing cells that no longer function and visible light for sending conventional visible light image information to the light sensing cells that continue to function are physically configured in a display that moves with the eye e.g. and which include electro mechanical actuators or the like to position the display s and camera s in different locations and angular directions or which include light beam scanners to sweep the infrared simulation sources and visible light sources adjusting the geometry of image acquisition and image projection left right angle up down longitudinal focus sensing a direction of gaze and adjusting stimulation light geometries accordingly. In some embodiments cylinder focus astigmatism is also corrected by the displays of the present invention e.g. in some embodiments by inserting a lens or other optics that provide the required correction .

In some embodiments the present invention provides one or more devices for focusing stimulation light. In some such embodiments the device s project onto and or into the eye visible points of light fiducials that are then imaged by a camera or other imager from outside the eye to assist the focusing of the stimulation light source to the desired nerves to be stimulated. In some such embodiments the device s project stimulation light onto the sclera of the outer surface of the eye and correlate this projection to infer where light would focus on the back of the eye and or to determine the direction of gaze.

In some such embodiments the device s project the stimulation light toward the back of the eye and the camera or other imager obtains images of the tissue at the back of the eye with the stimulation light projected thereon from outside the eye and these images are used to assist the focusing of the stimulation light source to the desired nerves to be stimulated or use a camera located on the headwear and imaging the side of the eye to observe and or follow some feature of the eye or fiducial device to assist the focusing of the stimulation light and or to determine the direction of gaze. In some such embodiments the device s project ultrasound signals e.g. chirps or pulses toward the eye and sense the return signal to assist the focusing of the stimulation light.

The infrared visual prosthetic IVP system of the present invention is an improved approach over conventional electrical stimulation or other methods conventionally used to stimulate vision nerves since the IVP increases the possible number of stimulation sites by at least an order of magnitude over electrical stimulation and the IVP does not require implantation into the patient of a powered device. Additionally if optogenetic technology is eventually successful technology of the IVP stimulation device may be directly applicable.

Although the following detailed description contains many specifics for the purpose of illustration a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many variations and alterations to the following details are within the scope of the invention. Very narrow and specific examples are used to illustrate particular embodiments however the invention described in the claims is not intended to be limited to only these examples but rather includes combinations and subcombinations of features shown in the various figures and descriptions. The invention includes the full scope of the attached claims. Accordingly the following preferred embodiments of the invention are set forth without any loss of generality to and without imposing limitations upon the claimed invention. Further in the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The leading digit s of reference numbers appearing in the Figures generally corresponds to the Figure number in which that component is first introduced such that the same reference number is used throughout to refer to an identical component which appears in multiple Figures. Signals and connections may be referred to by the same reference number or label and the actual meaning will be clear from its use in the context of the description.

In recent years a pioneering technology has been developed to stimulate nerves which can achieve much more precision and selectivity of stimulation than electric current. This technology uses pulsed infrared lasers to excite the neural tissue directly without tissue damage. The advent of this technology represents a paradigm shift in artificial nerve stimulation because it allows a high degree of spatial selectivity of neural stimulation without the need for tissue contact.

Research is in process of using infrared light nerve stimulation INS technology to provide hearing restoration using an implantable prosthetic in the cochlea and vestibular systems. In cochlear implants the higher spatial selectivity of INS allows the implant to better mimic the natural stimulation of the neurons which results in superior hearing fidelity. This approach also has added benefits over existing technologies including residual hearing preservation and faster healing from surgery because light can be directed through the round window. The enhancement achievable over electrical stimulation has only been demonstrated in animals. Additional work is necessary to provide safety and efficacy data and develop the device hardware and software for nerve stimulation such that it will be ready for clinical trials.

Transitioning INS technology to the retina has some unique challenges not found in the cochlea however along with those challenges are some unique opportunities. The higher level of specificity enabled by INS technology can potentially result in a prosthetic containing tens of thousands of channels. For the retina high quantities of channels are especially important for realistic sight restoration.

FIG. B is a much enlarged schematic representation of a small portion of an array of stimulation sources having both IR nerve stimulation light source s in some embodiments VCSELs that emit infrared light of one or more wavelengths that are effective to stimulate nerve action potential signals in nerves when applied as a pulse of sufficient energy and properly focussed and visible light source s in some embodiments VCSELs that emit visible light of one or more wavelengths such as red green and blue used by some embodiments of the present invention. In some embodiments array is fabricated as a VCSEL array on one or more chips wherein emitters of the various wavelengths are arranged in an array such as shown in this example which shows three IR wavelengths and three visible wavelengths interleaved with one another. In some embodiments more or fewer different IR wavelengths are used in some embodiments a single IR wavelength is used and in some embodiments more or fewer visible wavelengths are used. In some other embodiments such as described below in the description of a plurality of emitters such as diode or fiber lasers are used in a scanned projection system e.g. in some embodiments one two or three IR lasers and one two or three visible light lasers emit collimated light toward a system of MEMS deflection mirrors that create the spatial pattern of each wavelength that is projected into ocular implant see and then onto the retinal nerves and or retina of the patient . In such a system that combines both visible light emitters to stimulate those areas of the light sensitive rods and cones in the retina that remain functional in a patient with partial loss of vision and IR nerve stimulation light emitters that stimulate the nerves leading from the non functional rods and cones which nerves generally overlie rods and cones that may or may not still be functional these embodiments of the present invention provide the novel capability of stimulating both the remaining functional rod and cone cells that underlie the layer of nerve cells that conduct signals toward the optical nerve as well as the nerve cells leading from non functional rod and cone cells. In some embodiments the present invention provides the ability to test the effectiveness of each emitter or group of emitters and using the results of the testing to reprogram the controller to recalibrate the algorithms that convert image into stimulation signals and change which areas of the eye receive visible light signals and which areas of the eye receive IR light signals. These visible stimulation and IR stimulation areas can overlap to provide additional stimulation capabilities when desired or not overlap selectively turning off various of the stimulation sources particularly to save electrical power by not using emitters that provide no function providing little or no IR nerve stimulation to nerves from functioning visible light sensitive cells and little or no visible light to cells that have been found by testing to be non functioning and or to prevent overheating of tissue by reducing the frequency of nerve stimulation pulses to areas that have recently been stimulated to near a limit of the tissue s ability to dissipate local heating and or to turn off the stimulation when the patient blinks or closes their eyes . In some embodiments array is as described further in the description of FIG. B below.

FIG. B is an enlarged schematic representation of a larger portion of array of stimulation sources having both IR nerve stimulation VCSELs and visible light emitters. In some embodiments array includes a first plurality of IR nerve stimulation pixels IR1 pixels wherein the IR1 emitters are indicated with a clear background and are always OFF until configuration software enables them while the IR1 emitters are selectively enabled and indicated with a hashed background in a second plurality of IR nerve stimulation pixels IR2 pixels wherein the IR2 emitters are indicated with a clear background and are always OFF until configuration software enables them while the IR2 emitters are selectively enabled and indicated with a hashed background in and a third plurality of IR nerve stimulation pixels IR3 pixels wherein the IR3 emitters are indicated with a clear background and are always OFF inactivated for stimulation and not powered for extended periods of time until configuration software enables them while the IR3 emitters are ON activated for use and selectively enabled based on the input image and indicated with a hashed background in . In some embodiments array includes a plurality of IR1 pixels that are turned OFF inactivated for stimulation and not emitting regardless of the received image for extended periods of time e.g. until a recalibration and or change in stimulation mode and a plurality of IR1 pixels that are turned ON activated for use and selectively emitting depending on the received image and the image processing that may temporarily inhibit emitting based on heuristics in the image processing algorithm that enhance certain features such as edges and motion and or to prevent local overheating . In some embodiments array includes a plurality of IR2 pixels that are turned OFF not emitting regardless of the received image and a plurality of IR2 pixels that are turned ON selectively emitting depending on the factors described above . In some embodiments array includes a plurality of IR3 pixels that are turned OFF not emitting regardless of the received image and a plurality of IR3 pixels that are turned ON selectively emitting depending on the factors described above . In some embodiments array includes a plurality of visible red light pixels that are turned OFF not emitting regardless of the received image a plurality of visible red light pixels that are turned ON selectively emitting depending on the factors described above a plurality of visible green light pixels that are turned OFF not emitting regardless of the received image a plurality of visible green light pixels that are turned ON selectively emitting depending on the factors described above a plurality of visible blue light pixels that are turned OFF not emitting regardless of the received image and a plurality of visible blue light pixels that are turned ON selectively emitting depending on the factors described above . Note that in the example shown in FIG. B the processor has been programmed to turn off most of the visible light pixels in the center of this portion of the array such that these turned off pixels do not emit regardless of the received image and turn on selectively enable for light emission depending on the received image most of the visible light pixels around the edges of this portion of the array and the processor has been programmed to turn on selectively enable for light emission depending on the received image most of the IR light pixels in the center of this portion of the array and turn off such that these turned off pixels do not emit regardless of the received image most of the IR light pixels around the edges of this portion of the array . Such a configuration may be used for a patient with macular degeneration where the macula has stopped functioning. Note that even in such a situation there may be some cells in the mostly IR light stimulation area that are still functional as to visible light and thus selective ones of the visible light emitters are enabled and there may be nerves over the mostly visible light stimulation areas that one desired to stimulate and thus some of the IR emitters around the edges are then enabled for selective emission to stimulate those nerves.

In some embodiments the device of the present invention has a plurality of stimulation modes that can be selectively activated and different subsets of the emitters are activated for use in the different modes of operation. For example in some embodiments a first set of modes of operation can be optimized for reading and enhance the contrast of the image change the received text to black and white or other contrasting colors enhance edges and smooth edges and similar image processing that makes text images more readable and understandable in some embodiments the device can also be set to a text reading calibration mode and generate various test patterns and elicit and receive user input to customize the image processing algorithm to best suit the individual user for one or more different text reading situations such that the user can later select one of one or more different text reading modes based on the text to be read . In some embodiments one or more additional modes of operation can be calibrated and selectively activated based on the environment and or user input such that the image processing can pre process the video images to suit a particular activity such as recognizing various colors useful for cooking food and identifying types of food or defects in the food or for recognizing different denominations of money or for walking and bicycling outdoors or for participating in various social or business activities or for manipulating and assembling parts as part of a job or hobby. In some embodiments two or more image processing modes can be selectively activated at the same time such that the device of the present invention can simultaneously be suited for combined activities such as card playing which can benefit from both shape and text enhancement as well as color differentiation . In some embodiments the device can receive user input in conventional ways such as from voice commands or manual mode selection to select its operational mode and or by automatically recognizing the need for a particular mode such as by sensing when the eye direction gaze of the user is directed towards an area of the field of view that has text or particular symbols or that faces of people are in the field of view and the device then automatically changes its mode of operation to enhance image processing to suit that environment. Thus in some of the plurality of image processing modes different subsets of the visible light emitters and or and of the infrared light emitters and or can be activated or de activated based on the content of the environmental video images received and on the various areas of nerves to be stimulated where rods and cones are not properly functioning and areas of rod and cones to receive visible wavelengths of light.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a test and recalibration system for the patient to use by themselves or with the help of a care giver that provides an interactive test e.g. a program that goes through a set of images displayed on a personal computer such as a desktop computer iPad like tablet smart phone or the like and based on patient feedback of the perceptions of those images recalibrates which pixels are to be IR stimulation pixels and which are to be visible light emitters and also frequently recalibrates the image processing algorithms to optimize the perceived vision each week each day or each hour or on an activity by activity basis e.g. in some embodiments different algorithms are used for reading for household chores or for outdoor walking and the like . In some embodiments this recalibration program determines which nerves or areas of visual perception are stimulated by which IR stimulation pixel position and stores a set of mapping parameters that are used by the image processor for example in some embodiments a system and algorithm such as illustrated in described below to assist in mapping the received environmental image to particular ones of the nerves to be stimulated. For example in some embodiments the test program displays a set of images on the screen of a smart phone which is programmed to receive user input e.g. by touch screen input or voice input as to what the patient user perceives and the smart phone system of then wirelessly transmits mapping parameters to the externally worn device device of which uses the mapping parameters to convert the data from the received environmental image to particular ones of the stimulation sources to stimulate the desired nerves to achieve the vision sensations for the patient in subsequent use of the now recalibrated device . In other embodiments the device itself generates the series of test stimulation signals that include both visible light stimulation signals and IR light stimulation signals and device itself receives feedback input from the patient either directly such as by voice input motion input or touch input or indirectly by wireless signals from another device such as a smart phone or personal computer and device performs the necessary recalibration and re mapping functions and stores the parameters needed for future mapping in the device as used in a particular environment. In yet other embodiments the device itself generates the series of test stimulation signals that include both visible light stimulation signals and IR light stimulation signals and device itself receives feedback input from imaging the patient s eye e.g. optically sensing physiological nerve signals that are generated in various nerves as a result of the stimulation such as by the systems and methods described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2010 0016732 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 505 462 filed on Jul. 17 2009 titled Method and Apparatus for Neural Signal Capture to Drive Neuroprostheses or Control Bodily Function which is incorporated herein by reference and does the needed recalibration periodically or in real time on a periodic weekly daily hourly or based on a given activity such as reading versus walking outside or continuous basis throughout the day of usage .

In other embodiments not shown two or more chips of VCSEL arrays or other emitters for example one chip with an array of VCSELs all emitting just one wavelength of IR stimulation light signal and one chip with an array of MEMS mirrors used to reflect three visible wavelengths e.g. red green and blue or one chip with an array of VCSELs all emitting just one wavelength of IR stimulation light signal another chip with an array of VCSELs all emitting red stimulation light signal another chip with an array of VCSELs all emitting green stimulation light signal and another chip with an array of VCSELs all emitting blue stimulation light signal are provided e.g. side by side and projection optics are used to superimpose pixel images from the plurality of sources each including an array of one or more wavelengths of emitters. In some such embodiments the sources include both array emitters such as a two dimensional VCSEL array wherein each pixel of light of a given wavelength from that object the 2D source of light is imaged into the back of the eye such that each pixel of the image the 2D image of the object as projected into the back of the eye comes from a different VCSEL in the array and projection emitters wherein a plurality of the pixels of light imaged into the back of the eye all come from a single emitter e.g. a diode or fiber laser or a wavelength conversion device such as a non linear frequency doubler of 1064 nm IR light that is frequency doubled to 532 nm green light wherein the light from that single emitter is scanned to different pixel positions at the back of the eye by a system of MEMS mirrors for example as described below .

In some embodiments system includes an optometrist and or user control console computer that is programmable and that has a wireless transceiver that allows wireless control i.e. reprogramming of the remote microprocessors of the externally worn device which includes a programmed microcontroller that transmits pulsed laser nerve stimulation laser light signals to the passive implanted device ocular unit . In some embodiments application programs stored on a computer readable storage device e.g. optical disk CDROM DVD Blu ray Disc BD or the like magnetic or FLASH storage device e.g. floppy disk thumb drive SDHC Secure Digital High Capacity one type of FLASH memory memory card or the like and or a storage device connected to a remote computer that connects to computer across a local area network or a wide area network such as the internet contain instructions and or control structures such as look up tables control parameters databases and the like that are processed and or transmitted into the externally worn device to control its operation by methods of the present invention described herein. In some embodiments the applications programs are partially executed in the computer and or the externally worn device .

Accordingly in some embodiments an optometrist and or user can adjust parameters of the externally worn device to customize its operation to a much greater extent than is possible with a conventional electrical stimulation ocular implant because externally worn device has a far greater number of parameters that can be finely adjusted e.g. pulse width amplitude frequency wavelength polarization wavelength profile beam profile beam angle and the like . In some embodiments the applications programs contain a substantial amount of safety control code that runs in computer to guide the optometrist and or user to adjust the parameters of the externally worn device and to help prevent operation that might harm the patient or damage the externally worn device such as what might occur if too much optical energy were applied in a concentrated small area of the nerve layers of the retina or within too short a period of time or if overheating occurred in the device due to too many vertical cavity surface emitting lasers VCSELs next to one another being activated in a short period of time .

Although many of the embodiments herein have light emitting elements that include VCSELs vertical cavity surface emitting lasers implemented as electrically pumped semiconductor diode lasers other embodiments of the present invention use edge emitting semiconductor diode lasers optically pumped semiconductor lasers optically pumped optical fiber lasers light emitting diodes superluminescent devices or any other suitable light source. Some embodiments use wavelengths in the range of 1.75 microns to 2 microns other embodiments use any other suitable wavelengths.

Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computer environments where tasks are performed by remote processing and input output I O devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote storage devices.

As shown in in some embodiments the hardware and operating environment includes optometrist and or user control console computer or a server including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that operatively couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . In some embodiments there may be only one or in other embodiments there may be more than one processing unit such that the processor of computer comprises a single central processing unit CPU or a plurality of processing units commonly referred to as a multiprocessor or parallel processing environment. In various embodiments computer may be implemented using a conventional computer a distributed computer or any other type of computer including those embedded in cell phones personal data assistant devices or other form factors.

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory can also be referred to as simply the memory and includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM a basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer or server such as during start up may be stored in ROM . The computer further includes a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a magnetic hard disk a removable media drive or FLASH controller for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic floppy disk or FLASH storage device and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CDROM DVD Blu ray Disc BD or other optical media .

The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive couple with a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical disk drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide non volatile non ephemeral storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any type of computer readable media which can store data that is accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes FLASH memory cards digital video disks Bernoulli cartridges random access memories RAMs read only memories ROMs redundant arrays of independent disks e.g. RAID storage devices and the like can be used in the exemplary operating environment.

A plurality of program modules that implement the optimization methods of the present invention can be stored on the hard disk magnetic or FLASH storage device optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . A plug in program containing a security transmission engine for the present invention can be resident on any one or on a plurality of these computer readable media.

In some embodiments a user e.g. the optometrist or the patient enters commands and perception information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard pointing device or other suitable device such as a microphone not shown . Other input and or output devices not shown can include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner speaker headphones or the like. These other input and output devices are often connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB a monitor or other type of display device can also be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . The monitor can display a graphical user interface for the optometrist and or user. In addition to the monitor computers typically include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers.

In some embodiments the monitor or other image output device outputs calibration images and system elicits and receives user input e.g. as to perception sensations into the computer through keyboard or any other suitable input device for example such as described above. In some embodiments the calibration images include images having lines edges object movement colors and or other features at various angles positions and motions in the field of vision and the user input is used to map the regions of nerves that provide various visual sensations to the patient. This retinal map i.e. a map that indicates which sensations result from optical stimulation of each small area of the nerve layers of the retina is then stored in a computer readable data structure CRDS and used in the transformation of image information intensities and or colors at each pixel location into pulsed IR stimulation light at each of a plurality of areas on the nerve layers of the retina.

In some embodiments computer operates in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers or servers such as remote computer . These logical connections are achieved by a communication device coupled to or a part of the computer the invention is not limited to a particular type of communications device. The remote computer can be another computer a server a router a network PC a client a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only memory storage device and application programs have been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include local area network LAN and wide area network WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in office networks enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet which are all types of networks. In some embodiments the local computer has merely a user interface e.g. a browser to a remote system located remote from the user and accessed across the internet wherein the system performs the control and calculations of the calibration process. In some embodiments the method of the calibration process is embodied as instructions and or data structures stored on a computer readable storage medium that causes the method to be performed when the instructions are read and executed by a suitable information processing system.

When used in a local area networking LAN environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface modem or adapter which is one type of communications device. When used in a wide area networking WAN environment such as the internet the computer typically includes an adaptor or modem a type of communications device or any other type of communications device e.g. a wireless transceiver for establishing communications over the wide area network such as the internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the personal computer or portions thereof or those stored in the externally worn device or the implanted ocular unit can be stored in the remote memory storage device of remote computer or server and accessed over the internet or other communications mechanism. Note that the transitory signals on the internet may move stored program code from a non transitory storage medium at one location to a computer that executes the code at another location by the signals on one or more networks. The program instructions and data structures obtained from a network or the internet are not stored on the network itself but are stored in non transitory storage media that may be connected to the internet from time to time for access. It is appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and in some embodiments other mechanisms of and communications devices for establishing a communications link between the computers may be used including hybrid fiber coax connections T1 T3 lines DSL s OC 3 and or OC 12 TCP IP microwave WAP wireless application protocol and all other electronic media through standard switches routers outlets and power lines as the same are known and understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

The hardware and operating environment in conjunction with which embodiments of the invention may be practiced has been described. The computer in conjunction with which embodiments of the invention can be practiced can be a conventional computer a distributed computer or any other type of computer the invention is not so limited. Such a computer typically includes one or more processing units as its processor and a computer readable medium such as a memory. The computer can also include a communications device such as a network adapter or a modem so that it is able to communicatively couple to other computers servers or devices.

In some embodiments one or more parts of system elicits and receives input from a user and based on the input modifies adjusts or executes one or more of the methods of the present invention as described herein.

The INS technology as disclosed in the invention herein also enables the use of an external stimulator thus eliminating the need to implant a powered device only a passive implant device and allowing for easier upgrades as the stimulator technology advances since the active stimulator device is not implanted. Because the tissue of the eye normally absorbs at infrared light wavelengths a passive implant will have to be surgically placed in the eye to create a light pipe from the external stimulator array to the retina nerve cells. Infrared light from an external infrared stimulating array passes through an implanted light pipe that allows it to be imaged or focused on the retina especially the macula and fovea. In some embodiments the main light transmission material of the passive implant is an acrylic such as PMMA which is used today for ocular implants lenses. The implant allows the infrared light to reach the retina which would normally be highly absorbed by the fluid of the eye.

In some embodiments the system provides sight restoration to patients blinded by retinitis pigmentosa RP and age related or advanced macular degeneration AMD . It utilizes infrared nerve stimulation INS technology to cause action potentials in retinal nerve cells in the in the retina especially the macula and fovea regions. In some embodiments two 2D 2 dimensional VCSEL arrays one for each eye are used to generate the stimulation patterns at the stimulating infrared wavelength 1400 1900 nm . In some embodiments images are captured with miniaturized cameras and converted into stimulation patterns in an image processor. In order for the stimulating light to be able to reach the retinal nerves an ocular implant is placed in the eyeball. The ocular implant is made of a material that is both biocompatible and highly transmissive to the stimulating light. In some embodiments the ocular implant contains optics that serve to focus the light on the back on the retina. In some embodiments the VCSEL arrays camera processor and power supply are all packaged in a headset or set of eyeglasses to be worn by the patient. In some other embodiments portions of the system e.g. the power supply and or processor are packaged separate from the headset or glasses that include the VCSEL arrays.

In some embodiments the ocular unit includes a light transparent pathway or image pipe which includes an optional lens system and a transparent body for transmitting a stimulation pattern of infrared light from an external stimulator array through the eye along optical path the ocular unit having a light receiving anterior end closest to the eye s anterior surface and extending to a posterior end of image pipe closer to the fovea than to the eye s anterior surface transmitting light and or projecting image onto the retina including onto the macula and fovea . In some embodiments the curved anterior surface of image pipe acts as the anterior end focussing element and no separately formed lens is needed.

As used herein an image pipe is an optical device that forms an image just beyond its posterior end e.g. when an image pipe of the present invention is implanted in the eye the image is formed on the nerves at the anterior surface of the retina that is based on light entering the anterior end. In some embodiments an image pipe includes internal imaging components such as lenses holographs fiber optics or fiber optic bundles or the like which assist in providing a focussed image at the retina. In other embodiments the image pipe is simply a transparent path that allows external imaging components to form the image on the nerves at the front surface of the retina. Because some embodiments of the present invention use single wavelength infrared lasers holographic imagers are well suited to form images through such an image pipe.

In some embodiments the image pipe is substantially transparent to at least some infrared wavelengths of light between about 1000 nm and about 2000 nm and in particular is substantially transparent to those infrared wavelengths output by the source lasers of the stimulation apparatus. In some embodiments the image pipe has a substantially cylindrical shape such as shown in such that both ends of the image pipe have substantially the same diameter. In some embodiments the image pipe is formed from a biocompatible transparent thermoplastic material such as poly methyl methacrylate PMMA or the like. In some embodiments such as shown in the light receiving anterior end of ocular unit replaces at least a portion of the cornea of the eye and thus forms part of the anterior surface of the eye.

Poly methyl methacrylate PMMA is a transparent thermoplastic. PMMA has been sold under many different names including Plexiglas Lucite and Perspex . PMMA is substantially transparent i.e. a given thickness of about a centimeter or more passes a majority of incident light to visible light having wavelengths of 400 nm to 700 nm and infrared light IR having wavelengths from about 700 nm to about 2800 nm. Colored or tinted PMMA varieties allow specific IR wavelengths to pass while blocking visible light and or other IR wavelengths.

In some embodiments ocular unit is surgically secured in place to the cornea and or sclera in the eye with anchoring collar and hydrogel skirt . In some embodiments the implant is sewn or stapled or otherwise anchored to the ciliary muscle or secured to other internal parts of the eye to hold it securely in place. Ocular unit extends well into the vitreous humor which is less transparent than is image pipe to certain infrared light wavelengths useful for nerve stimulation.

The posterior end of the image pipe is closer to the fovea than the front of the eye. In some embodiments image pipe has a length such that the posterior end of the image pipe is near the retina in the region of the macula and fovea . In some embodiments the image pipe does not contact the retina in order to leave a pathway for the vitreous humor to circulate and nourish the cells of the retina. In some embodiments the posterior end is positioned close enough to the retina and fovea such that the remaining vitreous humor is thin enough and transparent enough that infrared light output from the posterior end of the image pipe will be sufficiently intense to cause retinal nerve stimulation i.e. triggering of nerve action potentials in the nerves of the retina due to impinging pulses of infrared light .

In some embodiments the ocular image pipe is solid material. PMMA has a higher density than the vitreous humor. To more closely match the density of the vitreous humor some embodiments of image pipe include at least one hollow portion such that the overall density of the image pipe is the same as the density of the surrounding vitreous humor and the center of mass of the image pipe coincides with the center of rotation of the eye in order that the image pipe does not tend to move relative to the eye with movement. In some embodiments the hollow portion is filled with an inert gas. In some embodiments the hollow portion is filled with a low pressure gas having a pressure of no more than about 1000 Torr. In some embodiments the hollow portion is in the light path of the light path and at least one end of the hollow portion is shaped to form a lens to focus the infrared light on nerves of the retina.

The placement size and shape of the hollow portion in the image pipe is used in some embodiments to not only match the density of the vitreous humor but to also control the center of gravity to help provide a more stable implant the is resistant to movement of the head or eyeball. In some embodiments the light transmitting portion of image pipe is solid material and the hollow portion is formed in a peripheral portion outside and surrounding the light transmitting path. This configuration reduces the number of optical interfaces in the light path. In some embodiments the light transmitting portion of image pipe is solid material and the hollow portion is formed symmetrically around a peripheral portion outside and surrounding the light transmitting path such that regardless of whether the person s head is upright or is lying on one side there is no rotational or other force acting to move the implant i.e. image pipe relative to the eye. In other embodiments the hollow portion is formed in or is very slightly larger in a top portion of image pipe in order to help keep the image pipe upright and in the desired position when the patient s head is upright.

In some embodiments one or both ends of the image pipe are shaped to focus the external stimulator array signals on the retina and fovea. In some embodiments there is an external light source that emits IR wavelength stimulation light . For example in some embodiments source includes a two dimensional array of vertical cavity surface emitting lasers VCSEL array that form an IR stimulator which provides IR light into the anterior end of the ocular implant . In some embodiments the user has an ocular unit implanted in each eye and the system provides there is a separate external two dimensional array IR stimulator source for each eye wherein the two separate images help provide three dimensional images to the brain through each eye s ocular unit . In some embodiments image pipe includes a lens or lens system with a different index of refraction than the rest of image pipe to focus the image on the retina . In some embodiments the lens system inverts the incoming image and focuses the image on the retina. In some other embodiments the lens system is non inverting and directs diverging collimated or converging light on the nerve tissue layer of the retina . In some embodiments the image pipe and its lens in combination with an external laser image generation device and its image processor s and one or more cameras in camera system produce an infrared image on the retina similar to the inverted optical wavelength image a normal human eye. Since the human brain will automatically accustom itself to any image consistently formed on the retina whether or not the image is inverted the camera system image processor and stimulation light sources can be configured to form the image as inverted or not according to the preferences of the user. In some embodiments camera system includes at least one camera directed toward the user s eye e.g. to determine the locations of indicia and or to determine the location and or direction of movement of the gaze of the user and this image of the eye or of the indicia is processed by image processor system in order to control the position of the stimulation light sources that are generating the stimulation light signals in order to position the projected pattern of stimulation light onto the desired locations on retina . In some embodiments the array of light sources themselves are physically moved to the desired position while in other embodiments different ones of the light sources that are already in the desired positions are activated.

In some embodiments the ocular unit has at least one indicia mark to facilitate detection of the eye s position. In some embodiments the ocular unit has at least one indicia mark on the anterior end to facilitate external detection of the position of the eye and the pointing directions. In some embodiments the ocular unit has at least one indicia mark on the posterior end to facilitate external detection of the position of the eye and the pointing directions. In some embodiments one or more indicia marks are placed on both the anterior end posterior end and or on one or more other locations on the ocular unit . In some embodiments the location and or orientation of the implant is determined for example by obtaining an image of or detecting reflected or fluorescent light from the indicia mark or marks and or and the external stimulator array signals are adjusted to compensate for the position of the eye e.g. the image or pattern is moved such that the desired nerve tissue continues to be stimulated . In some such embodiments an eye position processor in the external image processor uses an inward pointing camera in camera system i.e. a camera pointed toward the user to obtain an image of the eye and or indicia to detect movement or position of the user s eye s and generates control signals that direct an external camera view i.e. the direction in which the camera system is pointing or if a very wide angle lens and or multiple cameras are used which of the images obtained by camera system is used providing a more realistic sensation of looking around to the user instead of requiring movement of the user s entire head to obtain different images. In some embodiments a plurality of outward pointing cameras is included in camera system i.e. a plurality of cameras pointed toward different directions in the environment surrounding user to obtain a plurality of images from which to select based on the detected direction of the user s gaze .

In some embodiments e.g. the stimulation system includes a camera an image processor and a laser output device that outputs stimulation light signals into ocular implant . In some embodiments the image processor receives images signals from camera that represent pixel intensity values for light received at each of a plurality of pixels in a rectangular array of pixels. In some embodiments the rectangular array of pixels detected by camera includes a plurality of pixels for each of a plurality of colors each having a range of wavelengths .

In some embodiments such as the image processor receives the camera output and converts the image information into electrical signals that drive the IR stimulation light sources . The brightness of a particular pixel in the field of vision is not directly converted to the brightness of a particular IR stimulation signal. The individual stimulation signals that are transmitted into the eye are converted by the image processor from a series of image brightness signals for each pixel into pulse repetition patterns that represent brightness wherein the pulse repetition patterns stimulate the nerves of the retina to produce actions potentials. In some embodiments and individual stimulating laser signal is off or on at a below threshold level and then pulsed on in order to trigger the nerve action signal in the retina. The stimulation signals generated are pulse representations of the brightness of a pixel and the pulse intensity is not a representation of the brightness similar to how the nerves in a normal eye work. The image processor converts image pixel brightness and in some embodiments converts the image pixel color into what will become IR stimulating nerve pulse patterns where the pulse patterns are of substantially the same height and the same length sufficient to generate nerve axons but at different pulse rate frequencies and directed to different locations on the retina in order to accomplish the perception of vision to the patient. In some embodiments the perception of different colors is reproduced for the patient by stimulating particular nerve axons of the retina rather than by modifying the frequency of the IR stimulating light.

In some embodiments the nerve stimulating pulse repetition rate of the optical signal is about 1 to 2 pulses per second. In some embodiments the nerve stimulating pulse repetition rate of the optical signal is about two to five 2 to 5 pulses per second. In some embodiments the nerve stimulating pulse repetition rate of the optical signal is about five to ten 5 to 10 pulses per second. In some embodiments the nerve stimulating pulse repetition rate of the optical signal is about 10 to 20 pulses per second. In some embodiments the nerve stimulating pulse repetition rate of the optical signal is about 20 to 50 pulses per second. In some embodiments the nerve stimulating pulse repetition rate of the optical signal is about 50 to 100 pulses per second. In some embodiments the nerve stimulating pulse repetition rate of the optical signal is about 100 to 200 pulses per second. In some embodiments the nerve stimulating pulse repetition rate of the optical signal is about 200 to 500 pulses per second. In some embodiments the nerve stimulating pulse repetition rate of the optical signal is about 500 to 1000 pulses per second. In some embodiments the nerve stimulating pulse repetition rate of the optical signal is about 1000 to 2000 pulses per second. In some embodiments the nerve stimulating pulse repetition rate of the optical signal is more than about 2000 pulses per second.

In some embodiments of the apparatus the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a radiant exposure of the retina of no more than 4 J cmper nerve action potential NAP response generated. In some embodiments of the apparatus the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a radiant exposure of the retina of no more than 3 J cmper NAP response generated. In some embodiments of the apparatus the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a radiant exposure of the retina of no more than 2 J cmper NAP response generated.

In some embodiments of the apparatus the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a radiant exposure of the retina of between about 5 J cmand about 6 J cmper NAP response generated. In some embodiments of the apparatus the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a radiant exposure of the retina of between about 4 J cmand about 5 J cmper NAP response generated. In some embodiments of the apparatus the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a radiant exposure of the retina of between about 3 J cmand about 4 J cmper NAP response generated. In some embodiments of the apparatus the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a radiant exposure of the retina of between about 3 J cmand about 3.5 J cmper NAP response generated. In some embodiments of the apparatus the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a radiant exposure of the retina of between about 2.5 J cmand about 3 J cmper NAP response generated. In some embodiments of the apparatus the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a radiant exposure of the retina of between about 2 J cmand about 2.5 J cmper NAP response generated. In some embodiments of the apparatus the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a radiant exposure of the retina of between about 1.5 J cmand about 2 J cmper NAP response generated. In some embodiments of the apparatus the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a radiant exposure of the retina of between about 1 J cmand about 1.5 J cmper NAP response generated. In some embodiments of the apparatus the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a radiant exposure of the retina of between about 0.5 J cmand about 1 J cmper NAP response generated. In some embodiments of the apparatus the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a radiant exposure of the retina of between about 0.2 J cmand about 0.5 J cmper NAP response generated. In some embodiments of the apparatus the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a radiant exposure of the retina of between about 0.1 J cmand about 0.2 J cmper NAP response generated.

In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having an energy of less than about 2 mJ per pulse.

In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal providing an energy of less than about 2 mJ per pulse to the retina.

In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about ten microseconds 10 s and about five milliseconds 5 ms .

In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 1 s and about 10 s. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 10 s and about 20 s. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 20 s and about 50 s. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 20 s and about 40 s. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 40 s and about 80 s. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 80 s and about 160 s. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 50 s and about 100 s. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 100 s and about 200 s. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 200 s and about 500 s. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 200 s and about 400 s. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 400 s and about 800 s. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 800 s and about 1600 s. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 500 s and about 1000 s. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 1 millisecond ms and about 2 ms. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 2 ms and about 5 ms. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 2 ms and about 4 ms. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 4 ms and about 8 ms. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 8 ms and about 16 ms. In some embodiments the one or more lasers output an infrared signal having a pulse width of between about 5 ms and about 10 ms.

In some embodiments the image processor and associated power supply is mounted on or in the headset . In some other embodiments one or both of the image processor and associated power supply are remotely mounted e.g. on a belt worn around the patient s waist.

In some embodiments eye position sensors detect the position or movement of eye s and the image processor or other mechanisms e.g. see and described below are used to adjust the display s to compensate for the eye movement. In some embodiments the eye position sensors are mounted or imbedded on the display s .

In some embodiments the present invention further includes eye position cameras that track where in the visual field the patient s eye is pointed. Operation takes the eye position camera information from and generates control signals used in operation to re map VCSELs altering the portion of the scene transmitted by the VCSELs to the patient s retina. In other embodiments operation takes the eye position camera information from and generates control signals to move the VCSEL array to keep it positioned in front of the ocular implant as the gaze of the patient s eye changes as shown in and .

In some embodiments process includes a fail safe function in operation that immediately or after a short predetermined amount of time turns off all stimulation devices including lasers or other optical sources if and when communications are lost to the environment camera s .

In some embodiments of the present invention the image processor further includes an actuator controller . The actuator controller causes the actuator to move the light emitter from side to side keeping the light emitter in front of the ocular implant such that image projected by light emitter stays in substantially the same position on the retina of the patient s eye as the eye looks from side to side.

In some embodiments the image processor of the nerve stimulation system controls the light emitter such that the nerve stimulation light signals emitted correspond with the external scene in the direction the eye is pointing. This allows a patient to look in different directions without the need to actually rotate one s head. A nerve stimulation system with capability to allow a patient to see side to side simply by changing the direction in which one s eyes are pointing better simulates natural vision and provides an improved experience for the patient.

In some embodiments the external light source further includes an optical element between the light emitter and the eye . The optical element corrects for distortions in the IR light from the light emitter for further improve the accuracy of the nerve stimulation in the eye. In some embodiments the optical element moves with the light emitter along the carrier to provide consistent optical correction in all directions of viewing.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a vision system to aid in the treatment of a vision problem of an eye of a person wherein the eye has a retina having at least one functional nerve layer wherein an ocular implant is implanted in the eye of the person and wherein at least part of the vision system is immediately in front of the eye of the person the vision system including at least one imager that obtains a temporal sequence of images and converts the sequence of images into digital image signals an image processing unit that generates a series of laser driving signals based on the digital image signals and a laser unit that receives the laser driving signals and generates pulsed infrared light IR nerve stimulation laser signals and directs the pulsed IR nerve stimulation laser signals into the ocular implant in the eye of the person wherein the ocular implant transmits the IR nerve stimulation laser signals through an inner portion of the eye and onto the at least one functional nerve layer of the retina and wherein the IR nerve stimulation laser signals produce optical nerve action potentials directly in nerve cells other than rods or cones in order to produce a vision sensation to the person. In some embodiments the ocular implant is used to provide a transparent path for the nerve stimulation signals that are at wavelengths that are substantially absorbed by the cornea aqueous humor lens and or vitreous humor in the eye. In some other embodiments the present invention omits the ocular implant and generates pulsed light nerve stimulation laser signals at one or more wavelengths at which the cornea aqueous humor lens and vitreous humor are all relatively highly transparent but at which the nerve tissue at the back of the eye is sufficiently absorbent to be optically stimulated to trigger a nerve action potential in some embodiments the wavelength s are infrared e.g. between about 700 nm and about 1400 nm while in other embodiments one or more visible or ultraviolet wavelengths are used to trigger nerve action potential signals in nerve cells in the eye that are between the rod cells and the optic nerve and or to trigger nerve action potential signals in nerve cells in the eye that are between the cone cells and the optic nerve.

In some embodiments of the system the laser unit includes at least one array of infrared IR vertical cavity surface emitting lasers VCSELs having output wavelengths between about 1800 and about 1900 nm and wherein the at least one array of VCSELs are included in a wearable headpiece.

In some embodiments of the system the at least one image gathering unit obtains a temporal sequence of pairs of images of three dimensional 3 D scenes wherein the image processing unit generates a different series of laser driving signals for each eye of a person and wherein the at least one array of lasers generates different infrared light IR nerve stimulation signals directed into each of both eyes of the person i.e. one set of IR nerve stimulation signals that are projected into the user s left hand eye trigger nerve signals that convey a left hand eye visual scene to the user s brain while the other set of IR nerve stimulation signals that are projected into the user s right hand eye trigger nerve signals that convey a right hand eye visual scene to the user s brain in order to produce a 3 D vision sensation to the person.

Some embodiments of the system further include an eye position sensor wherein the image processing unit adjusts the generated series of laser driving signals to adjust positions of the stimulation emitters based on the current position s of the person s eye s for each of a plurality of successive times and positions of the person s eye s .

In some embodiments of the system the image processing unit preprocesses the sequence of images i.e. the sequence of frames to perform at least part of the image processing that normally occurs in the layers of the retina before image processing unit generates the series of laser driving signals based on the digital image signals. In some such embodiments the image processing unit preprocesses the sequence of images to determine edges on objects and generates the series of laser driving signals to stimulate edge detecting nerves in the retina. In some embodiments the image processing unit preprocesses the sequence of images to determine areas of increased brightness and generates the series of laser driving signals to stimulate increased brightness detecting nerves in the retina. In some embodiments the image processing unit preprocesses the sequence of images to determine areas of decreased brightness and generates the series of laser driving signals to stimulate decreased brightness detecting nerves in the retina.

In some embodiments of the system the image processing unit generates a series of laser driving signals based on motion of an object in a series of the digital image frames received over a period of time and generates the series of laser driving signals that stimulate the nerves of the retina that detect motion.

In some embodiments of the system the image processing unit that generates a series of laser driving signals based on the digital image signals received over a period of time and generates the series of laser driving signals modified to ensure nerves in the retina are not overheated by IR laser signals.

Some embodiments of the system further include the ocular implant implanted in the eye of the person.

In some embodiments the present invention includes a vision system to aid in the treatment of a vision problem of an eye of a person where the eye has a retina having at least one functional nerve layer an ocular implant is implanted in the eye of the person and at least part of the vision system is immediately in front of the eye of the person. The vision system includes at least one imager that obtains a temporal sequence of images of a scene and converts the sequence of images into digital image signals an image processing unit that is operatively coupled to the imager that processes the digital image signals and that generates a series of optical source driving signals based on the digital image signals and an optical source that receives the optical source driving signals and generates pulsed infrared light IR nerve stimulation optical signals and directs the pulsed IR nerve stimulation optical signals into the ocular implant in the eye of the person. In some embodiments the ocular implant transmits the IR nerve stimulation optical signals through an inner portion of the eye and onto the at least one functional nerve layer of the retina and the IR nerve stimulation optical signals produce optical nerve action potentials directly in nerve cells other than rods or cones in order to produce a vision sensation to the person.

Some embodiments omit the ocular implant and some such embodiments use one or more visible light wavelengths that are directed into the eye of the person in order to stimulate working portions of the retina to generate nerve action potentials that are sent to the brain for a vision sensation. Such a system can be useful for restoring vision to a person who has had a torn retina reattached but the retina pieces are no longer located at correct places in the eye in which case the remapping functionality of the present invention can map pieces of a received camera image to locations on the retina pieces in their reattached positions and project the remapped image into the eye. For example if a torn retina were reattached to the back of the eye with a gap between two edges the portions of a normal image formed by the lens of the eye that landed on the gap would not be sensed or seen but the present invention can split portions of the received camera image and remap to the locations of the retina and avoid losing image in the gap. These embodiments are useful for improving vision for other defects or injuries that would benefit from remapping a received image to other patterns such that the light sensitive regions of the patients eye s receive the various pieces of the image as remapped by the image processor of the present invention. In some such embodiments no infrared signals are projected into the eye but rather a visible image of remapped portions of the scene captured by video cameras of the present invention.

In some embodiments the optical unit includes at least one array of infrared IR vertical cavity surface emitting lasers VCSELs having output wavelengths between about 1800 and about 1900 nm. In some embodiments the at least one array of VCSELs are included in a wearable headpiece.

In some embodiments the at least one image gathering unit vision system of the present invention obtains a temporal sequence of pairs of images of three dimensional 3 D scenes the image processing unit generates a different series of laser driving signals for each eye of a person and the at least one array of lasers generates different 3 D infrared light IR nerve stimulation signals directed into each of both eyes of the person in order to produce a 3 D vision sensation to the person.

The vision system further includes in some embodiment an eye position sensor used by the image processing unit to adjust the generated series of optical driving signals based on a current position of the person s eye.

In some embodiments the image processing unit preprocesses the sequence of images to perform at least part of the image processing that normally occurs in the layers of the retina before image processing unit generates the series of optical driving signals based on the digital image signals. In other embodiments the image processing unit preprocesses the sequence of images to determine edges on objects and generates the series of optical driving signals to stimulate edge detecting nerves in the retina.

The present invention further includes the ocular implant implanted in the eye of the person in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the image processing unit generates a series of laser driving signals based on motion of an object in a series of the digital image frames received over a period of time and generates the series of laser driving signals that stimulate the nerves of the retina that detect motion.

In some embodiments the image processing unit generates a series of laser driving signals based on the digital image signals received over a period of time and generates the series of laser driving signals modified to ensure nerves in the retina are not overheated by IR laser signals.

In some embodiments the image processing unit identifies an edge of a contiguous area in the scene based on a plurality of pixels of the area and the optical source driving signals are pulsed signals configured to directly trigger nerve action potentials on an edge detection nerve. In some embodiments the image processing unit identifies a line in the scene based on a plurality of pixels in the scene and n the optical source driving signals are pulsed signals configured to directly trigger nerve action potentials on a line detection nerve. In some embodiments the image processing unit identifies motion in the scene based on a plurality of pixels in a plurality of frames of the scene and the optical source driving signals are pulsed signals configured to directly trigger nerve action potentials on a motion detection nerve.

In other embodiments the image processing unit identifies a first pattern in the scene based on a plurality of pixels in one or more frames in the scene and based on the first pattern generates optical source driving pulsed signals configured to directly trigger nerve action potentials on one or more excitatory nerves and the image processing unit identifies a second pattern in the scene based on a plurality of pixels in one or more frames in the scene and based on the second pattern generates optical source driving pulsed signals configured to directly trigger nerve action potentials on one or more inhibitory nerves.

In some embodiments the patterns in the scene are determined by a pattern recognition algorithm such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 504 970 issued Mar. 12 1985 titled Training Controller for Pattern Processing System U.S. Pat. No. 4 541 115 issued Sep. 10 1985 titled Pattern Processing System U.S. Pat. No. 4 550 431 issued Oct. 29 1985 titled Address Sequencer for Pattern Processing System U.S. Pat. No. 4 551 850 issued Nov. 5 1985 titled Response Detector for Pattern Processing System U.S. Pat. No. 5 473 707 issued Dec. 5 1995 titled Pattern Processing System with Weighted Training Codes and or U.S. Pat. No. 5 473 708 issued Dec. 5 1995 titled Pattern Processing System Using Minimum Length Address Loops each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In some embodiments the patterns determined from the scene are used to stimulate particular nerves or sets of nerves that would normally be triggered by visual stimulation by corresponding patterns if the eyes were functioning normally.

In some embodiments of the present invention the image processing unit is configured to transmit a sequential set of optical signals onto a patient s retina through the ocular implant determine the patient s perceived visual response to the optical signals and empirically produce a retinal map by correlating the perceived responses to the sequential set of optical signal stimuli.

In some embodiments of the present invention the image processing unit is configured to transmit a sequential set of optical signals onto a patient s retina through the ocular implant determine the patient s nerve action potential responses to the optical signals and empirically produce a retinal map by correlating the perceived responses to the sequential set of optical signal stimuli. In some such embodiments the nerve action potential responses are detected optically such as by the systems and methods described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2010 0016732 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 505 462 filed on Jul. 17 2009 titled Method and Apparatus for Neural Signal Capture to Drive Neuroprostheses or Control Bodily Function which is incorporated herein by reference.

In some embodiments the image processing unit is configured to transmit a sequential set of optical signals onto a patient s retina through the ocular implant determine the patient s perceived visual response to the optical signal and empirically produce a set of temporal and spatial optical signal patterns that when transmitted through the ocular implant directly trigger nerve action potentials that result in the visual perception of a line by the patient. In some embodiments the image processing unit is further configured to transmit a sequential set of optical signals onto a patient s retina through the ocular implant determine the patient s perceived visual response to the optical signal and empirically produce a set of temporal and spatial optical signal patterns that when transmitted through the ocular implant directly trigger nerve action potentials that result in the visual perception of an edge by the patient. In some embodiments the image processing unit is further configured to transmit a sequential set of optical signals onto a patient s retina through the ocular implant determine the patient s perceived visual response to the optical signal and empirically produce a set of temporal and spatial optical signal patterns that when transmitted through the ocular implant directly trigger nerve action potentials that result in the visual perception of motion by the patient In some embodiments the present invention is a method to aid in the treatment of a vision problem of an eye of a person where the eye has an anteroposterior axis extending from the eye s anterior surface to the eye s fovea. In some embodiments the method includes forming an infrared IR transparent optical path inside the person s eye imaging a temporal sequence of images of a scene and converting the sequence of images into digital image signals generating a series of optical source driving signals based on the digital image signals receiving the optical source driving signals and generating pulsed infrared light IR nerve stimulation optical signals and directing the pulsed IR nerve stimulation optical signals into the ocular implant in the eye of the person where the ocular implant transmits the IR nerve stimulation optical signals through an inner portion of the eye and onto the at least one functional nerve layer of the retina and the IR nerve stimulation optical signals produce optical nerve action potentials directly in nerve cells other than rods or cones in order to produce a vision sensation to the person.

In some embodiments the method further includes outputting optical signals from a laser unit wherein the laser unit includes at least one array of infrared IR vertical cavity surface emitting lasers VCSELs having output wavelengths between about 1800 and about 1900 nm and including the at least one array of VCSELs in a wearable headpiece.

In other embodiments imaging the scene includes obtaining a temporal sequence of pairs of images of three dimensional 3 D scenes where the image processing unit generates a different series of optical driving signals for each eye of a person and different 3 D infrared light IR nerve stimulation signals are directed into each of both eyes of the person in order to produce a 3 D vision sensation to the person.

In some embodiments further includes adjusting the generated series of laser driving signals based on a current position of the person s eye wherein the current position of the person s eye is determined by an eye position sensor.

The present invention in some embodiments includes preprocessing the sequence of images to perform at least part of the image processing that normally occurs in the layers of the retina before image processing unit generates the series of optical driving signals based on the digital image signals. In other embodiments the method includes preprocessing the sequence of images to determine edges on objects and generating the series of optical driving signals to stimulate edge detecting nerves in the retina.

In some embodiments the present invention includes generating a series of optical driving signals based on motion of an object in a series of the digital image frames received over a period of time and generating the series of optical driving signals that stimulate the nerves of the retina that detect motion.

In some embodiments the method includes generating a series of optical driving signals based on the digital image signals received over a period of time and generating the series of optical driving signals modified to ensure nerves in the retina are not overheated by IR laser signals.

In some embodiments the present invention includes identifying an edge of a contiguous area in the scene based on a plurality of pixels of the area and generating optical source driving pulsed signals configured to directly trigger nerve action potentials on an edge detection nerve. In some embodiments the method further includes identifying a line in the scene based on a plurality of pixels in the scene and generating optical source driving pulsed signals configured to directly trigger nerve action potentials on a line detection nerve. In some embodiments the method further includes identifying motion in the scene based on a plurality of pixels in a plurality of frames of the scene and generating optical source driving pulsed signals configured to directly trigger nerve action potentials on a motion detection nerve.

In some embodiments the present invention includes identifying a first pattern in the scene based on a plurality of pixels in one or more frames in the scene generating optical source driving pulsed signals based on the first pattern and configured to directly trigger nerve action potentials on one or more excitatory nerves identifying a second pattern in the scene based on a plurality of pixels in one or more frames in the scene and generating optical source driving pulsed signals based on the second pattern and configured to directly trigger nerve action potentials on one or more inhibitory nerves.

In some embodiments the method further includes transmitting a sequential set of optical signals onto a patient s retina through the ocular implant determining the patient s perceived visual response to the optical signal and empirically producing a retinal map by correlating the perceived responses to the sequential set of optical signal stimuli.

In some embodiments the present invention includes transmitting a sequential set of optical signals onto a patient s retina through the ocular implant determining the patient s perceived visual response to the optical signal and empirically producing a set of temporal and spatial optical signal patterns that when transmitted through the ocular implant directly trigger nerve action potentials that result in the visual perception of an edge by the patient. In some embodiments the method includes transmitting a sequential set of optical signals onto a patient s retina through the ocular implant determining the patient s perceived visual response to the optical signal and empirically producing a set of temporal and spatial optical signal patterns that when transmitted through the ocular implant directly trigger nerve action potentials that result in the visual perception of a line by the patient. In some embodiments the method includes transmitting a sequential set of optical signals onto a patient s retina through the ocular implant determining the patient s perceived visual response to the optical signal and empirically producing a set of temporal and spatial optical signal patterns that when transmitted through the ocular implant directly trigger nerve action potentials that result in the visual perception of motion by the patient.

In some embodiments the present invention is an apparatus to aid in the treatment of a vision problem of an eye of a person where the eye has an anteroposterior axis extending from the eye s anterior surface to the eye s fovea. The apparatus includes a means for forming an optical path inside the person s eye where the optical path is substantially transparent to at least some infrared wavelengths of light between about 1000 nm and about 2000 nm where the optical path has a light receiving anterior end closest to the eye s anterior surface and extends to a posterior end where the posterior end is closer to the fovea than to the eye s anterior surface and a means for shining the light.

In some embodiments the means for forming the optical path further includes a means for transmitting to the posterior end more than half of infrared light having wavelengths between about 1800 and about 2000 nm that is incident on the anterior end.

In some embodiments the means for forming the optical path includes a means for forming a substantially cylindrical shaped path of a transparent material from the anterior end to the posterior end and wherein the posterior end of the transparent material has a diameter substantially equal to a diameter of the anterior end of the transparent material.

In some embodiments the present invention provides an apparatus to aid in the treatment of a vision problem of an eye of a person wherein the eye has an anteroposterior axis extending from the eye s anterior surface to the eye s fovea. The apparatus includes an ocular implant inside the person s eye means for imaging a temporal sequence of images of a scene and for converting the sequence of images into digital image signals means for generating a series of optical source driving signals based on the digital image signals means for receiving the optical source driving signals and for generating pulsed infrared light IR nerve stimulation optical signals and means for directing the pulsed IR nerve stimulation optical signals into the ocular implant in the eye of the person wherein the ocular implant transmits the IR nerve stimulation optical signals through an inner portion of the eye and onto the at least one functional nerve layer of the retina and wherein the IR nerve stimulation optical signals produce optical nerve action potentials directly in nerve cells other than rods or cones in order to produce a vision sensation to the person. In some embodiments the means for imaging of the scene includes means for obtaining a temporal sequence of pairs of images of three dimensional 3 D scenes means for generating a different series of optical driving signals for each eye of a person and means for generating different 3 D infrared light IR nerve stimulation signals directed into each of both eyes of the person in order to produce a 3 D vision sensation to the person.

Some embodiments further include means for adjusting the generated series of laser driving signals based on a current position of the person s eye and means for in the current position of the person s eye is determined by an eye position sensor.

Some embodiments further include means for preprocessing the sequence of images to perform at least part of the image processing that normally occurs in the layers of the retina before generating the series of optical driving signals based on the digital image signals.

Some embodiments further include means for preprocessing the sequence of images to determine edges on objects and generating the series of optical driving signals to stimulate edge detecting nerves in the retina.

Some embodiments further include means for generating a series of optical driving signals based on motion of an object in a series of the digital image frames received over a period of time and means for generating the series of optical driving signals that stimulate the nerves of the retina that detect motion.

Some embodiments further include means for generating a series of optical driving signals based on the digital image signals received over a period of time and means for generating the series of optical driving signals modified to ensure nerves in the retina are not overheated by IR laser signals.

Some embodiments further include means for identifying an edge of a contiguous area in the scene based on a plurality of pixels of the area and wherein the optical source driving signals are pulsed signals configured to directly trigger nerve action potentials on an edge detection nerve.

Some embodiments further include means for identifying a line in the scene based on a plurality of pixels in the scene and wherein the optical source driving signals are pulsed signals configured to directly trigger nerve action potentials on a line detection nerve.

Some embodiments further include means for identifying motion in the scene based on a plurality of pixels in a plurality of frames of the scene and wherein the optical source driving signals are pulsed signals configured to directly trigger nerve action potentials on a motion detection nerve.

Some embodiments further include means for identifying a first pattern in the scene based on a plurality of pixels in one or more frames in the scene means for generating optical source driving pulsed signals based on the first pattern and configured to directly trigger nerve action potentials on one or more excitatory nerves means for identifying a second pattern in the scene based on a plurality of pixels in one or more frames in the scene and means for generating optical source driving pulsed signals based on the second pattern and configured to directly trigger nerve action potentials on one or more inhibitory nerves.

Some embodiments further include means for transmitting a sequential set of optical signals onto a patient s retina through the ocular implant determining the patient s perceived visual response to the optical signal and empirically producing a retinal map by correlating the perceived responses to the sequential set of optical signal stimuli.

Some embodiments further include means for transmitting a sequential set of optical signals onto a patient s retina through the ocular implant determining the patient s perceived visual response to the optical signal and empirically producing a set of temporal and spatial optical signal patterns that when transmitted through the ocular implant directly trigger nerve action potentials that result in the visual perception of an edge by the patient.

Some embodiments further include means for transmitting a sequential set of optical signals onto a patient s retina through the ocular implant determining the patient s perceived visual response to the optical signal and empirically producing a set of temporal and spatial optical signal patterns that when transmitted through the ocular implant directly trigger nerve action potentials that result in the visual perception of a line by the patient.

Some embodiments further include means for transmitting a sequential set of optical signals onto a patient s retina through the ocular implant determining the patient s perceived visual response to the optical signal and empirically producing a set of temporal and spatial optical signal patterns that when transmitted through the ocular implant directly trigger nerve action potentials that result in the visual perception of motion by the patient.

Some embodiments further include means for outputting optical signals from a laser unit wherein the laser unit includes at least one array of infrared IR vertical cavity surface emitting lasers VCSELs having output wavelengths between about 1800 and about 1900 nm wherein the at least one array of VCSELs is in a wearable headpiece.

Although the various figures and embodiments described herein explicitly show some combinations of the individual features of the present invention in combination other embodiments include any subset or all of the features in combination and it is specifically contemplated that features described in one embodiment herein ma be added to other embodiments and that not all features of any one described embodiments are required for other variations of that embodiment.

As discussed in par. 55 of Ser. No. 11 257 793 in some embodiments a laser diode emitting light with a 1.87 micron wavelength stimulates nerves. This wavelength is important because devices capable of generating this wavelength are more available than longer mid IR wavelengths. In some embodiments laser diode light of a 2.1 micron wavelength is used for nerve stimulation. Laser diodes that emit 2.1 micron wavelength light are currently in research and would most likely work as well as other wavelengths since this wavelength when generated by a lamp pumped solid state laser has been shown to be effective in stimulating nerves. In some embodiments a laser diode device having one or more emitters outputs light that is used for nerve stimulation wherein the light has a wavelength of between about 1.5 microns and about 6 microns in various embodiments for example the wavelength is in the far infrared at about 1.5 microns or about 1.51 microns about 1.52 microns about 1.53 microns about 1.54 microns about 1.55 microns about 1.56 microns about 1.57 microns about 1.58 microns about 1.59 microns about 1.6 microns about 1.61 microns about 1.62 microns about 1.63 microns about 1.64 microns about 1.65 microns about 1.66 microns about 1.67 microns about 1.68 microns about 1.69 microns about 1.7 microns about 1.71 microns about 1.72 microns about 1.73 microns about 1.74 microns about 1.75 microns about 1.76 microns about 1.77 microns about 1.78 microns about 1.79 microns about 1.8 microns about 1.81 microns about 1.82 microns about 1.83 microns about 1.84 microns about 1.85 microns about 1.86 microns about 1.87 microns about 1.88 microns about 1.89 microns about 1.9 microns about 1.91 microns about 1.92 microns about 1.93 microns about 1.94 microns about 1.95 microns about 1.96 microns about 1.97 microns about 1.98 microns about 1.99 microns about 2.0 microns about 2.01 microns about 2.02 microns about 2.03 microns about 2.04 microns about 2.05 microns about 2.06 microns about 2.07 microns about 2.08 microns about 2.09 microns about 2.1 microns about 2.11 microns about 2.12 microns about 2.13 microns about 2.14 microns about 2.15 microns about 2.16 microns about 2.17 microns about 2.18 microns about 2.19 microns about 2.2 microns about 2.21 microns about 2.22 microns about 2.23 microns about 2.24 microns about 2.25 microns about 2.26 microns about 2.27 microns about 2.28 microns about 2.29 microns about 2.3 microns about 2.31 microns about 2.32 microns about 2.33 microns about 2.34 microns about 2.35 microns about 2.36 microns about 2.37 microns about 2.38 microns about 2.39 microns about 2.4 microns about 2.5 microns about 2.6 microns about 2.7 microns about 2.8 microns about 2.9 microns about 3 microns about 3.1 microns about 3.2 microns about 3.3 microns about 3.4 microns about 3.5 microns about 3.6 microns about 3.7 microns about 3.8 microns about 3.9 microns about 4 microns about 4.1 microns about 4.2 microns about 4.3 microns about 4.4 microns about 4.5 microns about 4.6 microns about 4.7 microns about 4.8 microns about 4.9 microns about 5 microns about 5.1 microns about 5.2 microns about 5.3 microns about 5.4 microns about 5.5 microns about 5.6 microns about 5.7 microns about 5.8 microns about 5.9 microns or about 6.0 microns or in other embodiments in ranges between any two of the above values. In other embodiments an LED having output wavelengths centered in one of these ranges is used as a source of light to stimulate nerves.

As discussed in par. 99 of Ser. No. 12 191 301 in some embodiments the present invention provides a VCSEL array configured to output light pulses capable of optically stimulating neural tissue e.g. cochlear nerve tissue deep brain tissue white brain matter tissue gray brain matter tissue spinal cord tissue cardial nerve tissue central nervous system nerve tissue olfactory nerve tissue optic nerve tissue nerve bundles and the like . In some embodiments the stimulating lights pulses have a wavelength that results in the appropriate penetration depth for effective stimulation of the tissue of interest without causing tissue damage e.g. in some embodiments the wavelength of stimulating light pulses is in the range of about 1.8 microns to about 2.2 microns in some embodiments the wavelength of stimulating light pulses is in the range of about 1.85 microns to about 2.0 microns in some embodiments the wavelength of stimulating light pulses is about 1.87 microns in some other embodiments the wavelength of stimulating light pulses is in the range of about 4.0 microns to about 5.0 microns in some other embodiments the wavelength of stimulating light pulses is in the range of about 4.2 microns to about 4.8 microns in some other embodiments the wavelength of stimulating light pulses is in the range of about 4.4 microns to about 4.6 microns .

As discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 204 610 in some embodiments one or both ends of the image pipe are shaped to focus the externally generated stimulator array signals on the retina and fovea. In some embodiments the present invention includes an external two dimensional array VCSEL array IR stimulator providing IR light into the anterior end of the ocular implant. In other embodiments of any of the embodiments of the present invention other IR light sources are used such as LED array emitters or one or more single IR light sources that project light to an array modulator such as one or more grating light valves for example as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 177 081 titled High Contrast Grating Light Valve Type Device and or one or more digital light projector devices such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 566 935 issued to Hornbeck on Jan. 28 1986 titled Spatial light modulator and method or U.S. Pat. No. 7 776 631 titled MEMS Device and Method of Forming a MEMS Device wherein the array light modulator provides a modulated nerve stimulation signal to each of a plurality of locations on the patient s retina via the ocular implant. In yet other embodiments any other suitable sources of IR stimulation light are used including light sources emitting from a plurality of heights from their substrates such as LED arrays or MEMS minors configured to focus at a plurality of depths in the nerves of the retina .

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Although numerous characteristics and advantages of various embodiments as described herein have been set forth in the foregoing description together with details of the structure and function of various embodiments many other embodiments and changes to details will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the invention should be therefore determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

