---

title: Systems and methods for medical information analysis with deidentification and reidentification
abstract: A medical information navigation engine is useful in association with at least one electronic health record system. The engine decouples identifying information from clinical data from electronic health records. The clinical data includes clinical narrative having discrete data and textual data. The identifying information is stored. Additionally, the identifying information is associated with a token in the clinical data. The clinical data may then be indexed. The discrete data and the textual data in the clinical data may then be mined. Mining includes extracting at least one relevant event from the discrete data and the textual data. Next, the clinical data and identifying information may be reintegrated using the token. The event associated with the mined discrete data and textual data may then be exported. The system may also provide a validation tool for users, including clinicians, to search and view clinical data. The exported event may be used to alter treatment of a patient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08898798&OS=08898798&RS=08898798
owner: Apixio, Inc.
number: 08898798
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121019
---
This continuation in part application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 223 228 by Chaudhri et al. entitled MEDICAL INFORMATION NAVIGATION ENGINE MINE SYSTEM filed on Aug. 31 2011 which application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 379 228 by Ansari et al. entitled MEDICAL INFORMATION NAVIGATION ENGINE MINE SYSTEM filed on Sep. 1 2010 which applications are incorporated herein in their entirety by this reference.

Also this application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 682 217 by Rogers et al. entitled MEDICAL INFORMATION NAVIGATION ENGINE MINE SYSTEM filed on Aug. 11 2012 also incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference.

The present invention relates to medical information analysis systems and methods and particularly to management and consolidation of medical information.

Despite rapid growth of innovation in other fields in recent decades the world of medical information including patient medical records billing and a host of other information has enjoyed little to no useful consolidation reliability or ease of access leaving medical professionals hospitals clinics and even insurance companies with many issues such as unreliability of medical information uncertainty of diagnosis lack of standard and a slew of other related problems.

One of the challenges facing those in the medical or related areas is the number of sources of information the great amount of information from each source and consolidation of such information in a manner that renders it meaningful and useful to those in the field in addition to patients. Obviously this has contributed to increased medical costs and is perhaps largely attributed to the field suffering from an organized solution to better aid the medical professionals to better aid those requiring more reliable patient history and those requiring more control and access over such information.

Currently when a patient sees various medical professionals over the years there is no method for universally tracking recommendations thoughts prescriptions diagnosis. This hinders the job of insurance companies in making certain requisite determinations physicians making decisions that directly impact the health of the patient and hospitals and other medical institutions that similarly rely but do not have the benefit of the requisite information not to mention the patient.

Further there are problems in the current medical system that are associated with patient identity in that due to the exposure of a patient to various medical associations professionals over the years and the possibility of various ways of identifying the same patient patients records and identity are oftentimes compromised creating a slew of problems both for the patient as well as those treating the patient.

Further privacy of a patient s health records is not currently reliably maintained as there are too many cases of health record compromises. Additionally patient control of access to medical information is nearly nonexistent. Additionally secure and remote access of medical information is currently lacking.

It is therefore apparent that an urgent need exists for a method and apparatus for managing medical information in a manner that is beneficial reliable portable flexible and efficiently usable to those in the medical field including patients.

To achieve the foregoing in accordance with the present invention to overcome the limitations in the prior art described above and to overcome other limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification the present invention discloses a method and a corresponding structure for transacting medical information.

In some embodiments a medical information navigation engine is provided which is useful in association with at least one electronic health record system. The system may decouple identifying information from clinical data from electronic health records. The clinical data includes clinical narrative having discrete data and textual data. The identifying information is stored separately in an encrypted manner. Additionally the identifying information is associated with a token in the clinical data.

The clinical data may then be aggregated. The discrete data and the textual data in the clinical data may then be mined. Mining includes extracting at least one relevant quality measure from the discrete data and the textual data. The mining may also include extracting concepts and facts about the patient such as conditions or biometric values or facts about clinical services performed for the patient such as surgical procedures or from the discrete data and the textual data used for the computation of eligibility for a clinical quality or performance measure.

Next the clinical data and identifying information may be reintegrated using the token if required by the application. Reintegration may be employed if the application is involved with a particular patient versus a population. Moreover when additional information needs to be meta tagged for a specific patient or additional data needs to be added to a specific patient reintegration may be employed potentially followed by a subsequent deidentification decoupling of the patient identifying information from the clinical data step. The quality information associated with the mined discrete data and textual data may then be exported. The system may also provide a validation tool for users including clinicians to search and view clinical data. The exported quality information may be used to alter treatment or change the eligibility of a patient.

In addition it may be desirable to reintegrate a group of patients for a particular application. For example identifying a group of patients whose demographics e.g. age sex race genotypic e.g. genetic markers for pathologies or phenotypic e.g. medical conditions qualify them for a clinical trial.

The system may also provide a view including patient disease patient condition patient risk stratification patient care quality measure compliance and or patient actionable care gap. The patient risk stratification includes co morbidities associated with the patients. The system may identify at least one coding or documentation opportunity associated with patient conditions mined from unstructured clinical data where the patient condition has not yet been associated with one of the patient claims.

These and other objects and advantages of the invention will no doubt become apparent to those skilled in the art after having read the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments illustrated in the several figures of the drawing. Note that the various features described above may be practiced alone or in combination. These and other features will be described in more detail below in the detailed description of the invention and in conjunction with the following figures.

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to several embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order to not unnecessarily obscure the present invention. The features and advantages of embodiments may be better understood with reference to the drawings and discussions that follow.

While Healthcare organizations today are struggling with use of greater volumes of digitized patient data stored in various formats across disparate systems. Most data created in clinical applications is textual and not computable by information systems. The inability to efficiently retrieve knowledge not only limits efforts to improve patient safety and outcomes but also leads to missed quality and financial objectives.

In accordance with some embodiments the system disclosed herein may integrate and intelligently analyze structured and unstructured information that resides across a healthcare organization. A medical Information Navigation Engine MINE may include a virtual Health Information Exchange HIE platform and Clinical Knowledge Exchange CKX CKXREF thereby enabling healthcare organizations to fill the knowledge gaps created by disparate and poorly connected computer systems and clinical information largely represented in textual form. MINE also provides Semantic Tagging and Reconciling of an integrated patient data set by the CKX CKXREF to make information accessible and actionable by clinical administrative and financial systems.

In some embodiments Data access and analytics modules enabling organizations to improve the quality of patient care while lowering costs and optimizing reimbursements including modules such as a Patient Analyzer a Population Analyzer a Quality Optimizer and a HCC Optimizer.

The CKX platform CKXREF and its modules may be web based thereby reducing IT operations overhead for managing servers simplifying account activation reducing deployment times and user administration processes.

The Medical Information Navigation Engine offers a technology solution to the information overload problem by presenting a unique interface to both structured and unstructured data.

The proliferation of electronic health records among providers and government initiatives have caused explosive growth in the volume of clinical data. Large amounts of both structured data such as coded lab tests and procedures and unstructured data such as encounter notes and transcriptions is available to providers. Solutions for meaningful ways of navigating the data and preventing information overload are critical for health care providers to enhance care quality.

MINE enables providers to enter free text queries as they would with any search engine and returns medically relevant results across both structured data and unstructured data. Using advanced natural language processing NLP technology to understand the intent behind the queries typed by the user MINE is able to return the most relevant results to that query.

The following description of some embodiments will be provided in relation to numerous subsections. The use of subsections with headings is intended to provide greater clarity and structure to the present invention. In no way are the subsections intended to limit or constrain the disclosure contained therein. Thus disclosures in any one section are intended to apply to all other sections as is applicable.

Referring now to a medical system is provided in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The system is shown to include medical source a medical information navigation engine MINE and medical information consumers also referred to herein as output or medical output . The medical source are shown to include more than one electronic health record EHR and health information exchange HIE and a picture archiving and communication system PACS . The MINE is shown to include interface a backend medical processor and a front end medical processor . Depending on the implementation processors can be distributed e.g. using cloud computing. Processors can also be combined.

 Medical information as used herein refers to any health related information including but not limited to patient medical records patient entered information care team entered information healthcare or wellness device generated information and billing information.

The source generally generates and provides various medical information to the MINE . For example the EHRs and each may provide information such as medical records and billing the HIE may provide information such as medical records and the PACS may provide information such as diagnostic imaging and reports.

The medical information consumers which may be made of a host of entities or individuals such as patients clinics medical institutions health organization and any other medical related party use information that is provided by the processor of MINE and that can by way of example consist of patients medical systems medical organization administrators medical researchers and or EHR users. These medical information consumers may access information directly from MINE or indirectly via other third party systems. Examples of such third party systems include but not limited to quality reporting systems population management systems financial systems and so on. For example user customized processed medical information is provided by the processor to a number of users within the medical information consumers . In this case the processor generates user customized processed medical information to a plurality of users with at least a portion of the user customize processed medical information being provided to each of the users based on the relevancy of the portion being provided of each user s specific function or role and each user s associated security privileges.

The processor in some embodiments indexes identifies maps and consolidates medical information received from the interface and tags this information and determines to reconcile the tagged information. In some methods and embodiments information that is extracted from images is tagged to enhance recall of search queries. Indexing at least in part processes document and converts them into formats that allows for quick searching across a large collection of documents.

The information in the MINE is encrypted and secure both in transit and at rest via multiple security protocols to ensure privacy of sensitive medical information.

It is understood that the sources of includes merely some examples of the sources that communicate with the MINE and that other sources known to those in the field are contemplated. Similarly the output may be used by those or entities not discussed herein but that are contemplated and within the scope and spirit of the invention.

The interface serves to receive information that is in various forms such as but not limited to text html CCD CCR HL7 pdf documents word documents scanned documents images general XML documents and any other type or formatted information. The interface then provides to the processors and information as needed.

The processor receives some of the medical information that the interface processes and performs certain tasks to process it such as indexing semantic meta tagging and reconciliation. Indexing takes processed documents and converts them into formats that make it easy to quickly search across a large collection of documents. Semantic meta tagging embeds information into the medical information that is relevant thereto and that can be later used to search for certain information for the purpose of reconciliation and search among many others.

One aspect of consolidation reconciliation and deduplication generally refers to removing of redundant patient medical records such as multiple records for the same individual appearing as though the records are for different individuals or multiple data elements that are recorded similarly but slightly differently in the different sources. In this case the processor recognizes that the records belong to a single individual or are the same data and just recorded differently and automatically consolidates them. The patient or a user of the system may also manually perform reconciliation. Whether or not reconciliation is performed is advantageously determined by the processor .

The processor outputs the indexed tagged and reconciled information to the front end processor . The foregoing tasks are a generalization and further details of each are provided below.

The processor performs certain tasks on the information provided by the interface and the processor which include query search presentation and quality checking The output of the processor is the output of the MINE or output .

The MINE through the processor in some embodiments and methods invites members of a medical care team to join it thereby allowing distributed user organized care teams.

Querying as performed by the processor is the ability to receive as input a free text query from a user i.e. a query without any restrictions on the structure and converting the free text query into commands to a medical search engine such as Medical Lexical Search Engine and the MATRIX Medical Application Terminology Relationship IndeX Concept Search Engine using a sophisticated query processing engine optimized to work with medical queries. The results of the search engine are sent to the presentation display planner which decides the most relevant presentation given the user s organization and role e.g. the provider search query program a healthcare administrator a study administrator and the patient . The presentation discussed below receives such information. In some embodiments and methods the medical information or user information is processed to suggest relevant queries.

Search as performed by the processor is built around the concept of Zero Click Relevance or the ability to get to all the relevant information an actor in the healthcare system requires by typing in just a single query. The search engine within the processor performing the search comprises an indexing and searching as will become apparent shortly. Optionally search results may be securely embedded into third party programs. In some embodiments searching involves determining presenting also referred to herein as providing access to specific relevant data based on a search query the patient and the user s specific function and or role and security privileges. A user may be within the output and security privileges are either determined by the MINE or by the patient or both. Information uploaded to the MINE by users such as output in some embodiments is searched by the processor . The uploaded information may include information such as but not limited to status posts records and images. Such user uploaded information is routed automatically to the output as needed.

Some aspects of the search are now discussed relevant to an example. Assuming by way of example that general practitioner Dr. Smith s new patient Joan Sample has a complaint of chest pain. Joan has brought several CCDs and a 600 page pdf file of her chart. She has seen a cardiologist who uses NextGen and a G.I. specialist whose charts are in e MDs and has visited the emergency room. Dr. Smith uses the search of the various methods and embodiments of the invention to efficiently assemble the relevant information he needs. Dr. Smith selects Joan Sample as the patient and enters the clinical context chest pain in the search bar of a screen presented by the MINE . He is presented with relevant lab results such as CKMB and Amulase relevant diagnostic results such as EKG and chest CT scan and all progress notes and consult reports in which concepts relevant to chest pain like GERD and Holter monitor are mentioned. Two distinct types of searches are combined in accordance with some embodiments to retrieve information medically relevant to Joan s complaint 1 Lexical search where text in the patient record is searched for occurrences of the search term its variants and synonyms and 2 Medical concept search where data that is medically related to the search term is retrieved. Medical concept search finds relevant structured data with standardized codes such as lab results and text results such as progress notes which include terms medically related to the search term. In Joan s case a search for chest pain returns a CKMB lab result and a reference to a chest CT scan. Accordingly and advantageously the Lexical and Medical concept search solves Dr. Smiths information overload problem by returning information in the chart most relevant to Joan s chest pain complaint. Further in some embodiments the presentation discussed shortly presents a united view of Joan s history by reconciling and de duplicating data from multiple sources that may be coded and described differently. Redundant data is automatically reconciled even if it is described differently by differently sources.

Presentation as performed by the processor is displaying health information to the requesting user in a way that reduces the number of clicks and maximizes the amount of meaningful information delivered based on the interpreting the intent of the user query.

Quality checking as performed by the processor is checking of the quality of medical information provided by various sources i.e. source by the patients structured data and unstructured data in a Wiki like mannered setting whereby the users can help maintain and improve the quality of information displayed. The foregoing tasks performed by the processor are further described in detail below. Additionally the users or patients may make comments regarding medical information in a Wiki like manner.

In summary the MINE transacts medical information including the interface receiving medical information from a number of medical sources such as within the source for processing identifying mapping and consolidating by the medical processor providing access to specific relevant data based on a user s security privileges within the identified mapped and consolidated medical information based on user specific functions or roles performed by the processor and generating user customized processed medical information to a number of users such as within the output with at least a portion of the user customized processed medical information being provided to each of the users based on its relevancy to each user s specific function or role and each user s associated security privileges.

The processor is shown to include a presentation and quality checking module which may be a single module or broken out into two modules and a query and search module which also may be separate or combined modules. The modules and communicate with each other and with the modules of the processor . The interface communicates with modules of both processors and and is essentially a gateway into the MINE from the sources .

The foregoing modules may be software programs executed by a computer or computing engine of suitable sorts or may be implemented in hardware as will be described in greater detail below in reference to .

The interface in some embodiments is a software program that executes on one or more servers which can be a server of any kind of suitable computing engine such as personal computer PC . The servers receive secure information through the link from the sources . The processor in some embodiments includes a database and one or more servers which may be any suitable computing engine similar to the servers including but not limited to PCs or servers.

The database and servers perform the tasks discussed above relative to the processor and the display and servers perform the tasks discussed above relative to the processor though these processors may and often perform additional tasks related to medical information some examples of which are presented and discussed below and the rest of which are contemplated and achieve the various advantages results and functions presented herein.

The processor in some embodiments includes display and visualization executing on one or more servers which may be any suitable computing engine similar to the servers including but not limited to PCs or servers. The display is used to construct presentation and display information to users such as the patient s records billing information and other types of medical information. The display in some embodiments also performs processing of some of the functions of the processor .

As shown in the servers are coupled to the database and the servers and to the display and the servers and the database and servers are coupled to the display and the servers .

In some embodiments the interface servers database servers display and servers are remotely located relative to the sources and in some embodiments remotely located relative to one another. Further they are considered a part of the Internet cloud where performing their tasks in a manner known as cloud computing. However other manner of achieving the functions and advantages of the invention including various other of implementation not shown in or other figures herein and or not discussed are contemplated.

The system is shown to include medical sources MINE which is analogous to MINE of with additional details shown medical output medical source and medical input . The source is analogous to the source of except that it is shown to include electronic medical record HIE healthcare applications and an ad hoc data block . The output is analogous to the output of except that it is shown to include the patient the health care HC provider the EMR the HIE portal healthcare Apps Standards Orgs and Health Orgs Payers . The input is shown to include the medical terms and the medical knowledge which are input to the MINE .

The MINE is shown to include a standard parser a document uploader an ad hoc document parser a mapper a relevancy matrix a medical knowledge extractor a mapped data objects block a business intelligence block a template library manager block an Application Programming Interface API a search module and a visualizer module which are some of the blocks functions performed by the MINE while others are contemplated to achieve the various functions and advantages discussed herein.

The search module performs functions discussed hereinabove and other functions that will become further clear with subsequent discussions. Similarly the visualizer module performs the functions discussed above with further details provided in subsequent discussions. The parser the uploader and the parser provide the capability of the MINE to accept information in a variety of different formats such as a collection of medical records in standard and ad hoc forms by the source . For example the ad hoc data block may provide information to the MINE in ad hoc form which the parser decodes or parses for use by other blocks of the MINE .

The extractor the matrix and the mapper serve to collectively collect medical knowledge and identify extract and map multidimensional relationships within them. Multidimensional relationships are between different types of medical data such as concepts labs problems vital medications allergies as well as different types of relationships between the medical data such as has comorbidity with and cures for a drug. For example implicit to these multidimensional relationships may be drug relevancy to a particular pathology. For example it is known that Abilify may cause diabetes. These strengths of association may be utilized to build causality relevancy relationship models by the mapper . These relationships may then be stored in the relevancy matrix for later analysis. In some embodiments the system may select which relationships to return in a particular application. This may be adjusted by the system on the fly in order to provide a user with the most relevant analytics and information. For example a user querying a term like diabetes will likely return only tightly associated results because otherwise the search would be too broad and render it meaningless. However within labs and or medications looser associations may be permitted in order to improve the systems utility.

These multidimensional relationships are embodied in the relevancy matrix . The block serves to combine medical records with their relevancy to specific medical concepts. For example the specific medical concept of diabetes is related to the labs for hemoglobin al c and glucose results to the medical concept of diabetic retinopathy the diagnosis of foot sores the medications of Metformin and insulin among other things. The module serves to perform the functions of relevancy and reconciliation and presentation as described hereinabove. The business intelligence block can mine the collected data for trends and predictive capabilities that might be of interest to large health organizations and payers . The collected data can be mined analyzed observed reported on in aggregate form. Other organizations that could make use of the data are any organizations interested in monitoring or required to report quality metrics such as integrated delivery networks IDNs health plans and or accountable care organizations ACO . An example of business intelligence queries includes selecting an arbitrary cohort population for search of quality measures such as show me all patients information within my panel with diabetes with hemoglobin alc high in the last six months .

The sources provides medical information to the MINE through a secure link as noted previously. Within the medical information received by the MINE generally is medical data or medical records. Before it is received by the MINE medical data is created in a multitude of systems including the EMR healthcare applications and many other ad hoc data sources such as but not limited to the application Microsoft Word . The data which is typically aggregated in a HIE and EMRs can also be received by MINE . Structured data is increasingly becoming available in standard xml formats such as continuity of care records CCR continuity of care documents CCD clinical data architecture CDA and other HL7 related standards. Ad hoc data is available in multiple formats such as word pdf fax and image data. The collection of medical records from multiple sources creates a serious data duplication problem in the current medical environment. Much of the data from these sources may represent the same type of information or even the same instance of information with slightly different variations or completeness e.g. Patient name with and without the middle initial or a drug labeled as a generic or brand name with or without a start date . The MINE advantageously reconciles the same data instances for reconciliation purposes from different sources and identifies similar data instances for comparison purposes.

As opposed to typical health information exchange HIE where patient information is available to all the participants in the system in the system patient data is shared in a granular patient centric style to accommodate privacy and security on a per patient need to know basis based on the roles and needs of the users and their organizations. Examples of the need to know basis of information distribution include the following 1 Some organizations such as those with healthcare providers may receive patient demographics in addition to the other medical information. 2 Other organizations such as sponsors may receive only the problem that the healthcare provider is interested in. 3 Still other organizations such as study clients may just receive a count of patients that could fit a study candidate criteria and the be able to message those patients anonymously. The whole user interface presented by the presentation module can change based on the rights and type of user. Patient sharing is performed on a patient or even more granular basis. Examples of further granularity include type of data such as labs meds can share data with each other on an as needed basis this is similar in concept to sending a fax containing medical information for a given patient from one organization to another. The receiving party organization or healthcare provider health organization payers in can accept the sharing similar to filing the received data into an existing or new patient chart or reject the sharing request. In this manner patient care teams are created in an ad hoc distributed way based on care requirements for each particular patient. In embodiments where security is a concern the sharing is only performed between verified organizations where verification is provided by peer organizations is auditable by organization administrators and by the patients themselves. Patients also advantageously have the option to add remove members from their care teams which can also include their relatives PHRs and digital devices and applications that generate monitor or consume healthcare data PC2 .

The collection of medical records in the standard and ad hoc forms is made possible by the parser the uploader and the parser of the MINE . The document parser parses the ad hoc data and whenever possible intelligently categorizes elements of the ad hoc data into structured elements. In some embodiments natural language processing neural network user assisted templates and other techniques are employed to intelligently categorize these elements. Intelligent categorization is the process of taking a segment of input text and assigning data category and structure based on the data category probabilistically to the segment of text. For example the text alc was reported abnormal would be assigned the category lab result to the term alc and associate the term abnormal as the result flag to the term alc with some probability. Another example could be stress test reported no cardiac malfunction would associate the categories problem for the term stress and cardiac malfunction and the category procedure for the term stress test . It would also associate negation to the term cardiac malfunction . The document parser then optionally presents the user with its analysis of the potential structured data for review and editing through the output . The document parser creates a standard XML document such as CCD or CCR formats that can be uploaded to the rest of MINE through doc uploader . The document parser also can provide users with a graphics user interface GUI that will allow them to easily map identify structured elements in specific types of ad hoc documents to simplify the repeat processing of such documents. For an example a user could bring up a document on the document parser and highlight the tag PatID and indicate that the patient ID will follow this tag.

In some embodiments the document uploader is a computer program that is executed in any security domain. These security domains can be cloud based services a hospital a clinic a personal computer and other suitable forum. The document uploader receives standard XML documents such as CCD or CCR from the parser or directly from the medical sources and uses this information to verify user information and securely usually via SSL uploads the document to a desired destination within the MINE . MINE maintains two main public environments a product demonstration environment and a production environment and multiple engineering environments. The type of document uploader employed is optional and a design choice. For example the particular document uploader employed in the MINE depends upon the connectivity required. Documents can be sent to the document uploader via a variety of methods including but not limited to IHE protocols web services shared folders and drag n drop browser interfaces.

In some embodiment the standard parser is a computer program that is typically executed in a device in the Internet cloud but can in other embodiments be executed within a private network environment. The standard parser parses and categorizes standard elements from the XML and creates data objects for specific standard elements. Most uncategorized data is stored as plain text into an ad hoc document object.

Additionally the document parser and the standard parser advantageously identify and remove duplicate patients as well as duplicate documents. Identification of duplicate patients is done by comparing patient identification as received by parser from the source to known patients with the MINE and a determination of a threshold number of matches of the patient s received identification. For example a patient whose social security matches a known patient record within the MINE may be determined to be the same patient or a patient whose last name partially matches another last name and has other matching information may be declared a duplicate patient. Patients can be matched based on similarities between demographic clinical billing or any other relevant patient records within MINE .

The medical knowledge extractor saves medical terms medical dictionaries medical ontologies medical knowledge in digital formats and medical knowledge gathered from the mapped data objects . The medical knowledge extractor creates relationships between different medical concepts found in the medical knowledge. These relationships are stored in a series tables called relevancy matrix .

The relevancy matrix are a set of granular tables of medical terms their synonyms additional search terms that are of interest and a set of multidimensional relationships that indicate the relevancy of each of the terms apixions or events to other terms apixion event along various dimensions such as lab for cures has reported negative interaction etc. . . . to medical professionals. The elements in the columns and rows of these tables are called apixions or alternatively events also referred to herein as atomic healthcare related terms . As is appreciated the set of granular tables grows over time as additional medical terms are identified by the MINE .

The relevancy matrix includes tables that are organized at various information levels including but not limited to global information specialty specific information standards organization specific information user specific information disease or problem specific information and patient specific information. Advantageously users selectively and independently adjust their versions of the apixion table by performing a search and then adding or removing elements that they feel are relevant or not relevant to the intent of the search they conducted. The relevancy matrix can process aggregate and propagate these user inputs to the other information levels.

The mapper receives the structured and ad hoc medical information and the type e.g. medicine allergy labs notes . . . of information from the parser and uses the relevancy matrix to generate mapped data objects that include the medical information the type of medical information and granular terms to which they are related i.e. the related apixions . Apixions can be used to help identify the same data instances from different sources for reconciliation purposes and to identify similar data instances for comparison purposes. The mapper also consists of a set of flexible rules that can be used to identify exact matches of data instances and close matches of data instances. The mapper also records the result of these rules in the mapped data objects . Exact matches can be defined as mapped data objects that are identical in the defined fields of interest. Close matches can be defined as mapped data objects that meet some matching threshold on the fields of interest.

The search module is analogous to the search module of the module of and receives the mapped data objects the relevancy matrix and search input from the user to generate lists of items for each type of medical information. Federated cached or real time retrieved data from multiple sources data is assembled at run time to create a unified view of the patient s clinical history via a set of mappings or rules. Data from multiple sources are either collected in real time via standards or proprietary query mechanisms or are retrieved from a previously indexed cache of such data. The data from these multiple sources are then combined for a single unified view. What is shown in the unified view depends on and is formed by the data mapper via de duplication rules and the data mappings rules and visualizer which handles the organization rules rights and privacy rules and the user s role. The search module also ranks the list of items based on their relevancy to various factors such as the user input a query relevancy matrix past user behavior user role privacy settings of the patient data or knowledge gained from history of medical information. These results are passed onto both the visualizer and the API .

To summarize the data from multiple sources is indexed and meta tagged by the data mapper . This data set is then consumed by the visualizer . The visualizer presents the same data differently to different end users or output based on who the user is and what role the user plays in the healthcare spectrum.

In the API the document uploader and the ad hoc document parser are included in the interface of . The medical terms the medical knowledge the search the visualizer the mapped objects block the mapper the relevancy matrix the medical knowledge extractor and the business intelligence block are a part of the processor and the medical terms the medical knowledge the medical knowledge extractor the visualizer the mapped data objects the mapper the relevancy matrix the standard parser the ad hoc document parser and the template library manager are a part of the processor and the HIE the EMR the HC provider the patient and the health orgs payers are a part of the outputs .

Document and medical data object search ranking is now described. To make medical data objects matching search conditions Search results even more relevant MINE makes use of a mathematical concept we call Concept Proximity Model CPM . The CPM algorithm returns a numerical value indicating the relevancy between a pair of documents or medical data objects or between a medical concept and a medical data object . The relevancy value can be expressed in various fashions including but not limited to as an Euclidian distance between two points in a multi dimensional space or in angular distance from 1 to 1 indicating the cosine of the angle separating two vectors with the same dimensions.

To illustrate the use of CPM in relevancy ranking the following is an example of how a relevancy metric is computed and retuned by CPM that can then be used as part of the search strategy. For any given document CPM calculates a numeric address based on the medical terms Apixions in the Relevancy Matrix . The numerical address which can be expressed as a string of numbers or the coordinates of a point in a multi dimensional space can be calculated based on various attributes of the medical data in each document e.g. presence of conditions symptoms abnormal labs etc. as they relate to Apixions. For instance let us assume there are only the following three Apixions provided to CPM medical conditions A B and C. If a search string inputted by the user is semantically related to conditions A and C the search criteria can be expressed as a vector S 1 0 1 . A document that indicates a patient diagnosed with conditions B can be expressed at a vector D 0 1 0 . A second document that indicates a patient diagnosed with condition A can be expressed at a vector D 1 0 0 . The angular distance AD between each document pair can be expressed as a normalized dot product between each vector pairs. In case of the above three vectors the angular distance between vectors S and D would be greater than the angular distance between vectors D and D. This ranking strategy suggests that in case of the above search criteria document should receive higher ranking and hence be listed closer to the top of the list of search results than document . This ranking is particularly useful in cases where the keyword search indicates that condition A is found in both documents but is mentioned in document in a way that rules out the condition as opposed to document that indicates the diagnosis of the condition has been established. In this case a search strategy using only keywords may not accurately establish the relevance of each document to the search term and may list document above document . A simple example would be a document for a healthy patient explicitly listing negatives for each condition e.g. no chest pain no fever which would be incorrectly presented as being more relevant to these conditions than a document in which they are diagnosed positively for a condition.

For any given patient or document MINE can calculate a numeric address based on the medical terms Apixions in the Relevancy Matrix . The numerical address which can be expressed as a string of numbers or the coordinates of a point in a multi dimensional space can be calculated based on various attributes of the medical data e.g. presence of conditions symptoms abnormal labs etc. as they relate to Apixions. For instance let us assume MINE has only the following three Apixions medical conditions A B and C. A patient record R indicating that the patient has been diagnosed to have condition A and C can be expressed as a vector 1 0 1 . Another patient record R that indicates a patient diagnosed with conditions B and C can be expressed at a vector 0 1 1 . If we assume that 1 the patient records are comprehensive 2 all three medical conditions A B and C to have been accurately diagnosed and 3 the conditions are chronic then a system comparing the two vectors can conclude with a certain level of certainty that patient records R and R do not belong to the same patient even though the patients may share the same name.

Such a numerical address has a certain level of uniqueness for patients with a fair amount of data points particularly if the patient s record contains many data points that deviate from the norm healthy and therefore can be used as a parameter in addition to the patient s ID in order to establish a unique patient identification. The same strategy can potentially be applied to reconciling duplicate documents and data points.

Community based template review approval and sharing system is now described. As described above the template lib manager and the visualizer control the display position size and behavior of widgets based on pre defined default and also user customizable settings. Once an optimal display configuration has been reached the desired configuration referred to as a Template settings can be submitted to an online community for them to review test and if desired rate or even certify the Template. The profiles of the online community and their Template submissions can either be kept private or made public via configurable privacy settings. All users within a community network would have access to the submitted Templates and can test write reviews or rate the published templates. A decision body or board within a given user network has the ability to certify a Template making it visible to all users within the community that the Template has received certification. Certification description can have many attributes including date name of the certification body and other pertinent information.

The capability of Did You Know is now explained. The system searches the history of the patient and displays information that may indicate significant risk for the patient or may have a significant influence on the diagnostic process or treatment plan based on the patient s current circumstances . A patient s current circumstances includes the patient s current problems medications allergies available measured information labs diagnostics etc. and any active complaints or symptoms they may have. For example a patient who is complaining of sore throat and fever might have past splenectomy information displayed by the Did You Know feature since there is a relation between these circumstances and a serious complication due to past splenectomy.

The MINE may employ finite state transducer technology to identify a medical concept in a health record and is able to suggest possible completions. The MINE uses its Semantic Query Processing Engine capable of understanding medical language to tag medical concepts in the query. Using such tagged information MINE is able to search both the textual content and structured information present in the patient s history by using MATRIX Medical Application Terminology Relation IndeX a proprietary knowledge base of medical concepts and the semantic relations between them. Note that MATRIX can be external or internal with respect to MINE or combinations thereof.

For example in the query chest pain with palpitations the terms chest pain and palpitations are automatically tagged with concepts from MATRIX .

In some embodiments MATRIX knowledge base can include approximately four or more million primary medical concepts and tens of millions of relationships between the concepts. This extensive knowledge base can be constructed by a combination of various techniques. For example many of the commonly used clinical terminologies like ICD 9 CPT and LOINC have been integrated into MATRIX . Further content from a variety of large medical corpora like medical references and text from medical encounters is processed extract medical knowledge. Additional concepts abbreviations and synonyms are identified in this way. NLP technologies such as named entity recognition NER are used to recognize various medically relevant concepts within the text. This processed text is passed through a Statistical Semantic Analysis Engine ENGINEREF which has been optimized to predict the strength of relationship between two medical concepts. This combination of pre existing terminologies and new relationships mined from medical corpora creates a knowledge base that drives a Search Engine of MINE to return the most relevant structured data and unstructured content in response to any free text query.

The deep integration of MINE with the MATRIX knowledge base filters out irrelevant structured data and presents a care provider with the information most relevant to his needs. In one example the searcher will see that unrelated problems are filtered out and only the problems that might be related to the complaint are highlighted. Because of the MATRIX knowledge base MINE is able to highlight shoulder pain when the searcher is querying chest pain because it is strongly related to chest pain. MINE is also able to perform similar highlighting for lab tests and procedures.

Apart from providing sophisticated concept based search on structured data MINE uses state of the art indexing and search technologies to provide semantic searching capabilities for textual content found in encounter notes. MINE understands medical concepts and knows to search for chest pain and also for its synonyms such as chest pressure and chest discomfort . MINE can display easy to scan snippets for each medical concept found in the text giving the health care provider immediate access to relevant information.

MINE uses the knowledge available from existing medical terminologies and combines it with knowledge extracted using sophisticated semantic analysis techniques to provide health care providers the critical ability to access relevant information instantly at the point of care.

The document processor indexer and module are generally located within the processor in some embodiments. The engines and and the planner are located within the processor in some embodiments.

The document processor receives community patient data . and patient provided patient data .. for processing. The data . is provided from sources other than the patient whereas the data .. is provided by the patient.

The engine converts free form natural language queries free text query into calls to the engines and . The engine finds all objects having the keyword term match perfect or loose anywhere in the content of the medical data object and filters them using other keywords. The engine for a predetermined collection of medical terms finds a list of medically related terms identified through a knowledge base comprising medical terms semantic relations and strength of the relations. The collection of medical terms is dynamically changing according to user input and otherwise as the system gains medical knowledge. The planner converts the output of the engines and into a unified display plan for viewing by a user and this becomes the search results medical data objects that can be matched to either keyword or concepts.

Two data flows are shown in . Indexing flow follows the flow of data from the . and or .. to the processor the indexer and the module to the engines and . Search flow follows the flow of data from receipt of the query to the engine to the engines and to the planner to generate the search results .

In the search flow the engines and are used to process documents and convert them into formats that make them easy to quickly search and retrieve from a large collection of documents. The indexing flow allows for reliable and automatic replication of documents across multiple physical machines. Indexing also supports large throughput large number of documents getting indexed per minute because it can split the work load over a large number of machines such as multiple processors. The indexer converts the incoming healthcare data into a form that makes the querying faster. The indexer also stores the contents of the data in a completely encrypted format so that in case of data theft the protected health information PHI is not revealed.

The module stores patient data which it receives from the indexer in the form of an indexed document in an deidentified format that is also easily searchable and generates deidentified indices. There may be multiple deidentified indexes to allow for rapid searches for different kinds of queries. The Protected Health Information PHI removed may comport to HIPAA definitions of PHI including names dates particular results addresses etc. This deidentification protects patient data from data theft and supports compliance with HIPAA. In alternative embodiments the deidentified indices generated by the module may be stored in multiple processors and queried independently thus they are fault tolerant and protect PHI. The deidentified indices enable very high performance searching of records without having to decrypt previously encrypted data. Once the target population has been identified then the PHI can be decrypted efficiently to reintegrate the PHI with the clinical data.

As described previously relative to the search engine consists of two distinct components namely the indexing flow and the search flow. The indexing flow consumes patient data from the community in multiple formats including CDA templates CCR CCD PDF images etc. as well as data provided by the patients themselves. Patient provided data can come in the form of patient uploaded material such as status updates or images videos and documents or can be from health monitoring devices connected to the internet. The indexing flow processes each of the documents received by the system and converts them into structures that make the searching of this data efficient Indexer . . These structures are stored in a completely encrypted fashion to protect patient information.

The search flow takes as input a free text query i.e. a query without any restrictions on the structure and converts the free text query into commands to the Medical Lexical Search Engine and the MATRIX Medical Application Terminology Relationship IndeX Concept Search Engine using a sophisticated query processing engine optimized to work with medical queries. The results of the search engine are sent to the presentation display planner which decides the most relevant presentation given the users role and privileges and their organizations roles and privileges e.g. provider administrator quality manager and the patient and the search query.

Each interpretation is scored based on the surrounding context for example other words medical terms and relations present in the query or the knowledge provided by the application to the query processor such as the history of previous queries and user responses. After scoring all interpretations that are generated the interpretation with the highest score is chosen as the most likely interpretation of the query. The most likely interpretation of the query is translated into a lexical search query and a concept search query and sent to the lexical search engine and the concept search engine .

The most likely interpretation is then transformed into calls to the engines and for lexical and concept search respectively. Once the results are returned from the searches the query processing engine annotates the returned results with information about the query so that it can send it to the display planner to create an appropriate display plan.

The planner receives as input the annotated results for a query from the personalizer and converts them into an ordered ranked list of results to be presented to a user. The ranking component includes exhaustive medical knowledge available in MATRIX to decide the relevance of data objects. Each result can be different in its presentation. The planner also records user actions on the output of the search results such as user clicks and dwell times. This information is logged internally for computing relevancy metrics and to provide personalization. For example a result containing laboratory results can be displayed as a trend line over time whereas results containing problems can be displayed with special markers indicating the onset of the problems related medications and procedures for the problem. A problem or condition that has been cured can be displayed differently from a present problem to indicate that the problem is no longer active. Apart from creating display plans for each result determining its styling content and presentation for example graph vs. highlighted text the display planner also determines the global order of results. For certain types of queries for example queries about analytes and lab tests certain types of results might be prioritized over others.

The planner uses logged relevancy metrics along with user data to personalize the presentation for the user and the query. On every query and user this data is captured and stored. The personalizer may periodically analyze the relevancy metrics captured for each user and query and converts them internally to a personalization model which is applied when presenting the search results to the user at query time. This process creates a feedback loop increasing the relevancy of results returned for each user.

The engine is knowledge based and includes a table of medical terms concepts relational links between concepts and numeric values relevancy scores providing a quantitative measure of the strength of the relational links. This collection of numeric values is referred to herein as the relevancy matrix . The normalized relevancy score has a range between 0 and 1 with 0 being completely unrelated orthogonal and 1 been highly related e.g. synonymous . It is noted that in other embodiments the opposite or a different range may be employed for example 1 may be used to reference unrelated and 0 may denote highly related. The relevancy scores are obtained through a collection of machine learning algorithms that operate over collections of data obtained by a variety of sources including but not limited to data generated by experts and medical practitioners including clinical data stored within the system data obtained from usage statistics and data obtained by converting publicly available medical texts into knowledge usable within the matrix.

In order to identify all the concepts relevant to the search term the knowledge base is queried with the search term to find all the concepts that are related to the search term. When all the matching concepts are found the relevant items can be selected by filtering the list of returned concepts based on their relevancy score. The threshold for filtering is a relevancy search parameter that determines the stringency of the algorithm from selecting only synonyms to finding all remotely related concepts.

The identified list of relevant medical concepts is passed as an input to the medical query processing engine which is then able to generate relevant lexical queries for the lexical search engine to return the search results .

An additional level of complexity in identifying relations between medical terms is created by negative semantic constructs. For example occurrence of the words diabetes ruled out in the context of a medical document needs to be interpreted by the relevancy engine as a negative relevancy value for diabetes. From the semantic algorithm perspective two main problems associated with negations are detection and interpretation. Negation detection algorithm relies on the collection of negative semantic constructs found in the medical texts and falling into several categories from simple negation like no fever to more complex patterns like no sufficient evidence of infection . The negation detection algorithm uses a machine learning model to learn structural patterns in sentences to identify if the phrases in the sentence are negated or not.

Interpretation of negative relevance values depends on the specific use case. When application requires only detection of relations between concepts with no discrimination for their type negative relevancy values can be used as absolute values. However building decision support elements requires understanding of the semantic interactions between medical data objects so interpretation of negative relevancy values becomes critical.

As previously noted the MINE enables population wide data analysis. Healthcare reform has brought about initiatives such as accountable care sustainable health and shared savings. Participating organizations are challenged to decrease cost of care measure population health improve quality and demonstrate meaningful use. To comply they need to effectively leverage ALL their data whether that information exists within provider offices acute care settings or billing systems. Using data is further challenged since approximately two thirds or more of the key clinical information is typically found in free text notes and scanned documents which are inaccessible and unusable by today s healthcare technology solutions.

Healthcare organizations can use MINE as their data foundation to aggregate and unlock the full potential of their coded and unstructured data from across multiple sites. Clinical Knowledge Exchange CKX CKXREF approaches healthcare information exchange HIE with AI based processing. Typically an HIE needs to go beyond exchange of standard data to deliver actionable information. Accordingly the CKX CKXREF Data Interface is capable of importing data in many formats. Further MINE can include a Reconciliation and Deduplication Module for reconciling the imported data and MINE can also include an Indexing and Meta Tagging Module for tagging the imported data in a manner that makes the information ready for viewing and analysis. Hence MINE permits the use of coded data such as template entries and claims data and also makes useful unstructured data found in clinical narrative. If the clinical narrative is in scanned documents CKX CKXREF automatically extracts the textual information using Optical Character Recognition OCR . The post processed and original data can be stored in a High Performance Data Storage unit s locally or distributed resulting in queryable and computable with sub second response.

CKX CKXREF can also interoperate with EHRs HIEs PACS Quality and Billing Systems. For example MINE can receive and process many types of data from EHRs and PMs including coded data textual and image based documents by leveraging a combination of proprietary and standard data interfaces. Standard data interfaces supported include CCD CCR C32 X.12 and HL7 V2. MINE can also supports HL7 V2 and IHE XDS IHE XDR protocols for hospital and enterprise level integration.

In addition MINE can also inter operate with any application and bi directionally exchange clinical information using the API APIREF.

Data Security and Privacy can also be integral to MINE . To ensure data security and privacy MINE applies best practice standards and technology in data encryption. For example to ensure HIPAA compliance MINE limits clinical record access to only members of a patient s care team. Others not on the patient s care team such as in case of urgent care providers can gain immediate access to the patient record by breaking the glass . These transactions can be tracked and be fully reportable.

A data exchange module which handles output may transmit and receive data in using industry standard SSL connections and all Protected Health Information PHI may be encrypted. This module can also maintain detailed audit logs for all applications and users accessing data. The secure data access is optimized for web browser viewing on most platforms including Windows Macintosh Unix Linux iPad iPhone Android and Blackberry.

Many patients especially older individuals with many chronic diseases seek care from by multiple healthcare providers working in separate and diverse environments including private practices group practices and hospitals. Each of these sources generates data to describe and code the patient s medical information differently and will eventually create a distinct continuity of care document for each encounter. The MINE can analyze the patient s entire record organize it and present it to the healthcare provider in a format that can be efficiently viewed and interpreted. Reconciliation and de duplication of data are performed dynamically by the Reconciliation Deduplication Module for presentation using Presentation Quality Checking Module while data is also kept in its original form without data loss.

MINE can also include an Enterprise Master Patient Index technology EMPI EMPIREF. MINE can use an existing EMPI or leverage IHE PIX PDQ standard or operate independently. This EMPI can operate in two different modes 1 Automatically find matching patients based on organization specific rules or 2 the Presentation Quality Checking Module of MINE enables users to identify potential matches and merge records on demand. MINE can keep track of all patient merges and allow users to un merge records in case of an error. The Indexing Meta Tagging Module of MINE can also include fuzzy match algorithms that can be used for population analysis.

For software application vendors providing EHR HIE PHR PACS home monitoring or medical devices and those who are developing novel health applications the system API APIREF offers the unique ability to exchange data with the Clinical Knowledge Exchange CKXREF platform using a SOAP API APIREF. The medically intelligent search solution can also be embedded inside an application using a REST API APIREF.

Examples of sections and vocabularies supported by MINE include Problems free text ICD9 codes Office Notes full adhoc text in CCD Medications free text RxNorm codes Allergies free text Labs free text CPT codes Procedures free text and Immunizations free text .

In some embodiments the MINE system may also interoperate many other systems including EHRs HIEs PACS Quality and Billing Systems.

In some embodiments MINE also includes a Population Analyzer that provides an on demand and flexible solution for clinicians care managers and administrators to efficiently manage a group of patients and better target interventions to achieve better care experiences and population health improvement. This tool is an essential dashboard to help guide a performance driven organization to meet clinical and financial objectives.

Using the latest advances in big data science the MINE Population Analyzer can provide in real time very accurate views of a patient population at multiple levels including but not limited to 

The MINE Population Analyzer can intelligently mine and extract relevant data from the clinical narrative to enrich existing coded data all of which may be aggregated from multiple data sources. This greatly improves condition identification measure reporting risk assessment and other clinical analyses. The Population Analyzer results can be viewed according to the type of data used in the analysis coded data only versus coded data plus information mined from textual data. With Population Analyzer there is no need to create custom costly and time intensive reporting views or cubes.

The MINE Population Analyzer may be directly accessed within many clinical management platforms or electronic records via MINE application interface and an interface for the output . Furthermore the data and results can be queried by quality reporting and decision support systems.

The MINE population analyzer enables the user to request via text query API call GUI and other interfaces aggregated statistical information for a specific cohort of patients computed from structured data only AND computed from a combination of structured and unstructured data.

Such information includes but is not limited to males females diabetics other conditions of interest numerator denominator and compliance for specific measures of interest e.g. PQRS CORE ACO 33 HEDIS etc. 

A cohort can be any set of patients. Some cohorts of specific interest are patients enrolled in an ACO or other care management organization patients seen within an organization patients seen by a particular provider patients seen by a particular specialty within an organization patients covered by a particular health plan insurance or plan type. Many other cohorts can also be of interest.

Any group of patients that comprise a result value in a page of results e.g. organization results provider results etc. is a Result Cohort. The minimum cohort displays will be by organization and by provider.

MINE Population Analyzer can also enable the user to drill down to a page of specific results for each patient in a cohort or result set. Patient level results shall include results facts for specific clinical measures e.g. PQRS CORE HEDIS ACO 33 etc. and specific documents and information sources that were used to infer results or facts about the patient.

The analysis of care quality within any healthcare organization begins with understanding how well patients are being treated according to evidence based care measures. These results become the basis for managing populations targeting patient interventions and profiling physician performance. It is difficult to manage what cannot be readily measured. For many organizations the process of quality analysis can be time consuming and costly and often inaccurate.

As discussed above approximately two thirds or more of the data useful for quality measure sets in common use e.g. Medicare ACO PQRS and HEDIS is typically found in free text notes and scanned documents. This narrative information cannot be easily processed by quality reporting tools in use today. In addition the relevant data may be located in multiple systems across an organization. As a result these tools may under estimate performance or include ineligible patients into reporting and analysis decreasing overall accuracy.

The MINE can aggregate clinical and billing data from multiple systems within an organization. MINE can intelligently mine both discrete and textual data in an automated fashion for relevant quality measure concepts. MINE can apply terminology codes for relevant data found within the clinical narrative. MINE can export information to most quality tools including GPRO using application interfaces and . MINE can expose a validation tool for clinicians and others to view source documentation from which relevant concepts were found e.g. diabetic foot exam .

It can be demonstrated that as much as a two fold improvement in patient compliance with quality measures such as diabetic kidney disease screening could be achieved by simply including data mined from the clinical narrative in the measure calculation. There was no change in clinical workflow or care delivery.

The MINE Quality Optimizer QMREF more accurately uncovers services completed for a patient in an automated fashion without the need for a costly chart review. In addition a healthcare organization could potentially gain more revenue where measure performance is tied to reimbursement.

The de identified information may be indexed as described above and encrypted in some embodiments. The indexed data allows for very rapid searching. Additionally the deidentified information may be output to external entities such as academic institutions for research or analysis purposed without violating patient privacy.

The deidentified data may be aggregated by the MINE QMREF at and analyzed for relevant information at . Turning briefly to the process for data analysis is illustrated in further detail. Text is structured with concepts relevant to quality measurement diseases procedures measurements etc. . If manual validation is required at then the output is validated at . The confidence of the measure value is computed and presented at . The validation and confidence computation steps can be repeated as needed if it is determined that confidence is not sufficient at .

If manual validation is not required at or if the confidence is acceptable then structured data and extracted structure can be combined into structured output at . The outputted structured data may be analyzed by the MINE or may be output to a third party for analysis. Analysis of the deidentified indices may result in the identification of at least one relevant event . A clinical event is any granular clinical concept apixion associated with a timestamp of when it happened it may optionally have a where location and whom clinical actors . An example of a pair of event is a a myocardial infarction for patient X four years ago at home treated by the ER physician Y at the regional hospital . This can be decomposed into two events an MI for patient X at home four years ago relative to the document date and treatment of MI for patient X at the regional hospital by ER physician Y also four years ago relative to the document date .

Returning to after analysis the records may be reintegrated with the identifying information at . This reintegration ensures that the records may be shared with care providing organization. Further by reintegrating the identifying information after analysis the patients may still be able to take advantage of the analysis results. Reintegration may also be employed when additional information needs to be meta tagged for a specific patient or additional data needs to be added to a specific patient. It is also possible that the reintegrated patient information may be subsequently decoupled from the patient identifying information in order to update indexes.

Lastly when desired the reintegrated records may be output at for acting upon the findings at the patient level by the health provider organization. In some embodiments each patient s data is encrypted individually in order to ensure advanced security and compliance with privacy laws. The individual encryption may be generated and managed based upon information found in the patient s charts. As each chart is different this enables the system to ensure each record is encrypted uniquely. The system may also keep track of each encrypted record in order to enable decryption and data access at later times.

In some embodiments confidence level translates into a lower bound on the probability that a reported outcome e.g. a measure numerator is the actual outcome. Actual outcome is the value that would be determined in a complete manual audit a.k.a. 100 audit .

What is presented to the user is the value computed by the algorithm output adjusted by any validated results generated outcome and the outcome value that corresponds to a specific confidence level. For example as illustrated by the user may set the confidence level to a specific value such as 95 and see the outcome that this corresponds to. In these illustrations the outcomes using structured data are illustrated at and . By optimizing outcomes as illustrated at and respectively confidence intervals may likewise be calculated. Lastly full validation outcomes are illustrated at and respectively. The presentation and configuration of confidence intervals allows organizations to choose between 100 audits partial audits enough to support the confidence interval of choice and or full automated calculations if automated precision and recall are such that the desired confidence interface is automatically achieved .

In an exemplary computation Assume 100 audit yields an outcome p expressed as a rate from 0 1 . Then Hoeffding s inequality gives the equation 

Set Pr n to 0.05 for 95 confidence level put in n the number of patients tested for outcome and solve for to get outcome value corresponding to confidence level.

Other embodiments account for systematic errors which are introduced when precision and recall are less than 100 .

In the office visit note has been accessed. The example screenshot at displays the results of the office visit. In some embodiments medical concepts of importance relating to query may be highlighted for the user. All patient records may be analyzed via the processes described above in order to optimize patient care and identify correlations that through population analysis.

Processor is also coupled to a variety of input output devices such as Display Keyboard Mouse and Speakers . In general an input output device may be any of video displays track balls mice keyboards microphones touch sensitive displays transducer card readers magnetic or paper tape readers tablets styluses voice or handwriting recognizers biometrics readers or other computers. Processor optionally may be coupled to another computer or telecommunications network using Network Interface . With such a Network Interface it is contemplated that the Processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described medical records management and analysis. Furthermore method embodiments of the present invention may execute solely upon Processor or may execute over a network such as the Internet in conjunction with a remote CPU that shares a portion of the processing.

In addition embodiments of the present invention further relate to computer storage products with a computer readable medium that have computer code thereon for performing various computer implemented operations. The media and computer code may be those specially designed and constructed for the purposes of the present invention or they may be of the kind well known and available to those having skill in the computer software arts. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs and holographic devices magneto optical media such as floptical disks and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute program code such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer code include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter.

While this invention has been described in terms of several embodiments there are alterations modifications permutations and substitute equivalents which fall within the scope of this invention. Although sub section titles have been provided to aid in the description of the invention these titles are merely illustrative and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. It should also be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing the methods and apparatuses of the present invention. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims be interpreted as including all such alterations modifications permutations and substitute equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention.

