---

title: Ultra-fast boriding of metal surfaces for improved properties
abstract: A method of ultra-fast boriding of a metal surface. The method includes the step of providing a metal component, providing a molten electrolyte having boron components therein, providing an electrochemical boriding system including an induction furnace, operating the induction furnace to establish a high temperature for the molten electrolyte, and boriding the metal surface to achieve a boride layer on the metal surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08951402&OS=08951402&RS=08951402
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 08951402
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121101
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 470 360 filed May 21 2009 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 059 177 filed Jun. 5 2008. Both applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The United States Government has certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 between the United States Government and The University of Chicago and or pursuant to Contract No. DE AC02 06CH11357 between the United States Government and UChicago Argonne LLC representing Argonne National Laboratory.

This invention is directed to an ultra fast surface treatment method that results in hard wear corrosion and erosion resistant and low friction surface layers on metallic substrates. More particularly the present invention relates to an ultra fast electrochemical boriding technique which can lead to dramatic improvements in the mechanical and tribological properties of treated metal surfaces ferrous and non ferrous.

Most mechanical components used in a variety of rolling rotating or sliding bearing applications as well as those that are used in metal cutting and forming operations rely strongly on high hardness and low friction surface properties of base metals for high performance and durability during use. In a dusty sandy and corrosive environment high resistance to erosion and corrosion becomes important. There are numerous surface treatment methods that are currently used to enhance the near surface properties of engineering components. Some of these methods such as nitriding carburizing carbonitriding and boriding are theremo chemical in nature and based on thermal diffusion of carbon nitrogen and boron atoms into the near surface regions of these components at high temperatures. It typically takes about 8 to 10 hours to achieve case depths of 50 to 100 micrometers in the cases of nitriding and carburizing processes and as for boriding the case depths are much shallower typically 10 to 15 micrometers for the same processing time . Despite its ability to produce much harder surface layers than carburizing and nitriding boriding is not used as extensively as the other surface treatment techniques mentioned.

There are several other surface treatment methods based on the uses of laser beams such as laser shot peening glazing cladding as well as ion and electron beam processes such as ion beam deposition electron beam cladding and hardening that can also be used to achieve superior surface mechanical and tribological properties. Besides these methods there are plasma based physical and chemical vapor deposition techniques that can also produce hard surface coatings such as TiN TiC etc. on mechanical components for improved mechanical and tribological properties. Unfortunately all of these methods require long processing times and consume large amounts of energy.

Among the many thermal diffusion based surface treatment processes mentioned above nitriding and carburizing are used extensively by industry to achieve greater mechanical and tribological properties on all kinds of steel components. In the case of boriding though progress has been rather slow and at the moment this technique has limited uses. Just like nitriding and carburizing boriding is a surface hardening process in which boron atoms diffuse into the near surface region of a work piece and react with the metallic constituents to form hard borides. A deep diffusion layer also exists beneath the boride layers. At present there are several kinds of boriding methods available such as salt bath boriding fluidized bed boriding pack boriding paste boriding gas phase and plasma boriding for the production of borided surface layers. These methods are based on the uses of a variety of boron rich solid liquid or gaseous media. Fluidized bed pack and paste boriding methods use solid boron containing powders such as B4C amorphous boron ferro boron etc. and other compounds during the boriding process while plasma boriding uses gaseous boron compounds in a plasma environment.

All of the boriding methods mentioned above involve a high processing temperature typically ranging from 700 to 1000 C. . These boriding methods are most appropriate for the treatment of ferrous alloys but nonferrous and cermet based materials can also be treated. For example salt bath boriding of steel substrates can be done in a complex salt bath typically consisting of 60 to 70 wt borax 10 to 15 wt boric acid and 10 20 wt ferro silicon or boron at temperatures ranging from 800 to 1000 C. Boriding of a low carbon steel substrate for 5 to 7 hours in such a salt bath may result in 7 to 10 micrometer thick borided surface layers.

During boriding of steel and other metallic and alloy surfaces boron atoms diffuse into the material and form various types of metal borides. In the case of ferrous alloys most prominent borides are FeB and FeB. FeB may also form depending on the process parameters . Some of the boron atoms may dissolve in the structure interstitially without triggering any chemical reaction that can lead to boride formation. Iron borides i.e. FeB and FeB are chemically stable and mechanically hard and hence can substantially increase the resistant of base alloys to corrosion oxidation adhesive erosive or abrasive wear. Process conditions such as duration of boriding ambient temperature type of substrate material and boriding media may affect the chemistry and thickness of the borided surface layers. Due to the much harder nature of borided layers boriding has the potential to replace some of the other surface treatment methods like carburizing nitriding and nitrocarburizing.

Boride layers may achieve hardness values of more than 20 GPa depending on the chemical nature of the base materials. TiB2 that forms on the surface of borided titanium substrates may achieve hardness values as high as 30 GPa ReBthat forms on the surface of rhenium and its alloys may achieve hardness values as high as 50 GPa while the hardness of boride layers forming on steel or iron based alloys may vary between 14 GPa to 20 GPa. Such high hardness values provided by the boride layers are retained up to 650 C. Since there is no discrete or sharp interface between the boride layer and base material adhesion strengths of boride layers to base metals are excellent. With the traditional methods mentioned above boride layer thicknesses of up to 20 micrometer can be achieved after long periods of boriding time at much elevated temperatures. In addition to their excellent resistance to abrasive erosive and adhesive wear the boride layers can also resist oxidation and corrosion even at fairly elevated temperatures and in highly acidic or saline aqueous media.

Materials that are most suitable for boriding include all types of ferrous metals and alloys like low and high carbon steels low and high alloy steels tool steels bearing steels stainless steels precipitation hardening steels carburized nitrided and carbonitrided steels and cast irons. Non ferrous metals and their alloys like aluminum hafnium vanadium nickel chromium cobalt titanium tantalum zirconium tungsten niobium molybdenum rhenium magnesium and their alloys in particular nickel based and cobalt based superalloys cobalt chrome alloys tungsten and sintered carbides and or cermets can also be borided.

Because of their impressive mechanical tribological chemical and corrosion properties borided surface layers can be used in a large variety of industrial applications. In metal forming dies they can be used to protect the critical surface finish or profiles of all kinds of dies such as punching dies drawing dies bending dies hot forming and injection moulding dies forging dies die casting extrusion dies embossing dies deep drawing and impact extrusion dies . They can also be used in insertion pins rods plungers bushings botts nozzles pipe bending devices guide rings sleeves mandrels swirl elements clamping chucks guide box metal casting inserts orifices springs balls rollers discs valve components and fittings plugs chain components etc. They will be extremely well suited for stainless steel and other metallic based mechanical shaft seals used in pumping all kinds of fluids pulps powders slurries in chemical and mining industries. In the automotive or transportation fields they can prevent seizure galling and scuffing related failures under severe operating conditions and eliminate oxidative and corrosive degradation of a large variety of engine components. They can also be used in a variety of gear drives such as bevel gears screw and wheel gears helical gear wheels including gears ball and roller bearings tappets valves and valve guides power train components piston pins rings and liners fuel injector components for liquid gasoline and diesel and gaseous fuels like hydrogen propane natural gas and other types of mechanical components in all classes of moving mechanical systems that experience heavy loading high speeds erosive corrosive and oxidative media and elevated temperatures. Other potential applications include cold and hot forging tools extrusion tools press tools glass industry tools metal casting tools cutters razor blades and shaving machines impellers used in pumps mixers used in chemical and mining industries ball joints turbine and helicopter blades that are subject to sand erosion compressor parts and foil bearings invasive and implantable medical devices such as hip and knee joints made out of titanium zirconium cobalt chrome stainless steel and other specialty metals and their alloys. Because of the high boron content of their near surfaces borided surfaces can also provide an excellent substrate for the deposition of diamond and diamondlike carbon films on metallic substrates. In most cases diamond is difficult to deposit on steel substrates but after the boriding process such surfaces could be ideal for the nucleation and growth of crystalline diamond and amorphous diamondlike carbon films. Such duplex boride diamond or diamondlike carbon treated surfaces can be ideal in many machining metalforming sealing and biomedical implant applications.

Despite their abilities to produce much harder surface layers and superior components over other methods conventional boriding methods mentioned above are not used extensively by industry at the moment. There are substantial problems that hinder their wider use. Some of these problems include high cost long processing time toxic emissions byproducts mechanical and structural degradations and poor surface condition or finish after the boriding process. For all of these reasons it would be desirable to develop a new and improved boriding method that is fast inexpensive safe and applicable to a wide range of materials.

The present invention provides a method for producing metallic products with hard boride layers for a variety of mechanical and erosion resistant applications. The preferred method involves preparation of a molten electrolyte consisting of about 90 wt. borates of alkaline and alkaline earth elements such as borax and about 10 wt. carbonates of alkaline and alkaline earth elements such as sodium and or calcium carbonate or sodium chloride. Addition of small amounts 0.1 to 5 wt. of other halides chlorides fluorides and iodides etc. of alkaline and or alkaline earth elements like LiCl NaCl CaCl can have positive effects as electrolyte enhancers. Oxides hydroxides and carbonates of such elements may also be used to control the viscosity and melting point of the electrolyte. Furthermore using at least one of a high frequency induction furnace external agitation mixing of electrolyte or vibrating shaking of the work piece holder can help overcome diffusion barriers in the electrochemical process and thus help achieve fast boriding and thick boride layers about 100 micrometers or more in the case of low carbon steels with desirable mechanical properties in short processing times for example less than an hour . Such a procedure can also result in a more uniform boride layer thickness on the surfaces of odd shaped or intricate work pieces.

In electrochemical boriding graphite is often used as the crucible material. The same graphite crucible can also serve as the anode of the electrochemical cell. Due to the high temperature nature of the boriding process the graphite crucible or anode may undergo oxidation and hence thin down or wear out after repeated uses. As an alternative approach in our process we can also use the metallic and or borided forms of titanium aluminum zirconium hafnium vanadium niobium tantalum nickel molybdenum chromium tungsten cobalt iron and their alloys as anodes and or crucible materials. Specifically we can form a thin boride layer on the surface of these metals by reverse polarization i.e. by making the crucible a cathode and then switch back to the regular boriding practice by changing the polarity switching the cathode with the anode again. In particular the boride layers that form on titanium and its alloys have excellent resistance to high temperature corrosion and oxidation. They are also electrically conductive hence they can be an ideal choice for the industrial scale boriding operations. Alternatively iron and its alloys can also be borided first and then used as crucibles and or anodes. Iron borides are also electrically conductive this is why they form thick boride layers during our boriding process . In fact reverse polarization of anodes and or crucibles can be done as needed if the boride layer thickness on the crucible or the anode surface is reduced or there is a need for repair of a thinned down or worn area. Such a practice will ensure long durability and hence low cost.

The thickness and composition e.g. type of boride such as FeB or FeB or FeB diffusion layer of borided surface layers can be controlled to achieve performance and durability requirements of a given application. For certain applications FeB could be a preferred phase due to its superior strength and toughness. During the boriding process the boriding temperature and or current density may be maintained low to achieve only this phase over the other. Alternatively one can also keep the boriding duration short but leave the work pieces in the molten electrolyte for a longer duration to allow excess boron to diffuse or distribute evenly within the structure and hence stabilize the FeB phase over the FeB phase. Nano to micro scale boride phases can also be produced in a given surface region by selectively reacting diffusing boron atoms with secondary phases and or alloying elements within that region. This allows achieving multiple objectives such as improved mechanical properties without degrading thermal and or electrical properties of the base material. It is also possible to partially or selectively boride the surface or a region of a work piece by various masking methods as will be discussed in Examples.

These and other objects advantages and features of the invention together with the organization and manner of operation thereof will become more apparent from the following detailed descriptions and examples when taken in conjunction with the accompanying figures described below.

In a preferred embodiment ultra fast boriding is carried out in an electrochemical cell using high temperature salt bath electrolytes that typically consist of borax and a range of inorganic sodium potassium lithium compounds like NaCO CaCl NaOH etc. . Borax is a preferred source for boron in the electrolyte but other boron sources such a boron oxides boric acids potassium borofluoride KBF and the borates of alkaline and alkaline earth elements as well as various boron minerals including ulexite NaCaBO.8HO colemanite CaBO.5HO and kernite NaBO OH .3HO may also be used in the electrolyte. In a most preferred embodiment the composition of base electrolyte includes borax as the main ingredient with a source for boron most preferably between 30 to 95 wt. in combination with sodium carbonate between about 5 to 70 wt. as the other ingredient. In addition in a most preferred embodiment electrolytes enabling ultra fast boriding include some small amounts 0.1 to 5 wt. of alkaline and or alkaline earth halides such as CaCl NaCl etc. . Other halides chlorides fluorides and iodides etc. of alkaline and or alkaline earth elements can have positive effects as electrolyte enhancers. Oxides hydroxides and carbonates of such elements may also be used to control the viscosity and melting point of electrolyte. The addition of these halides into molten electrolytes results in a significant increase in the boriding rates and also refines the grain size and morphology of the borided surface layers. These halides release sufficient amounts of halide ions like Cl into the electrolyte bath and hence increase electrical conductivity and surface transport activities on metal surfaces and also increase boron intake or diffusion. While not required for operation of the invention it is believed that Cl ions also insure uniform current distribution across the electrolyte which can be helpful for achieving uniform case depth on intricate or odd shaped work pieces. The halide additives also make it easy to clean the work pieces after the boriding process since they are all water soluble. shows a schematic illustration of the main components of a typical electrochemical cell. The electrolysis principles apply to larger systems than shown in this figure and as long as the anode cathode and other components are designed and configured accordingly. The anode is made of graphite but can also be made of all kinds of other materials that are electrically conductive and compatible with high temperature electrolytes used in the boriding process . Cathodes can be made of any type of electrically conductive materials to which the work pieces to be borided are attached by an appropriate manner.

Using the system shown in a variety of electro chemical boriding treatments were performed to demonstrate the fast nature of the boriding technique. In these experiments square shaped substrates fabricated from a low carbon steel plate DIN EN 10130 99 DC04 0.004 Carbon were used. In one case a molten electrolyte was prepared composed of 10 wt NaCl 90 wt NaBO and a current density of 200 mA cmapplied to the steel substrates at 900 C. for a duration ranging from one minute to thirty minutes. Electron microscopy and X ray diffraction methods were used to analyze the structure and chemical nature of the borided steel surfaces. Micro hardness tests across the borided cross sections to determine the hardness profile as a function of depth from the top surface. As shown in a series of photomicrographs in even in one minute a fairly thick more than 10 micrometer boride layer is formed using the technique. After 5 minutes the thickness of the boride layer was 26 micrometers see after 15 minutes the layer thickness was 54 micrometers see and after 30 minutes the layer thickness reached 95 micrometers see . After the electrochemical boriding treatment the power to the electrodes may be switched off and the borided sample left in molton electrolyte for an additional time period e.g. as short as 10 minutes and as long as 2 hours resulting in elimination of the top FeB layer as shown in .

X ray diffraction analysis of the borided steel surfaces was performed using a Phillips diffractometer Model PW 3710 . As can be seen in at shorter boriding durations FeB is the most dominant phase but with longer boriding time FeB phase begins to dominate while FeB decreases in intensity. It is possible that near the interface the FeB phase is still dominant but X ray signals from such deep regions may have been weak or not available. Overall the thickness or proportion of each boride phase in the borided surface layers is dependent on several parameters. For example the thickness of the FeB phase can be controlled by the selection and manipulation of different process parameters including the temperature of the electrolyte current density and applied voltage the duration of the boriding process the chemical composition of the electrolyte and length of soak time in the molten electrolyte following the electrochemical boriding process. As shown in this layer can be totally eliminated by leaving the borided samples in the electrolyte for an additional time period.

As shown in the boride layer grows almost linearly with boriding time. Specifically the thickness of borided layers with respect to boriding time is 12 m after 1 minute 26 m after 5 minutes 54 m after 15 minutes and 95 m after 30 minutes. These data points can be represented in a formulae like d 2.8832 t 12.09 where d is the thickness in micrometers and t is the boriding time or duration in minutes.

In this boriding process the NaO BOratio was also optimized by using additional salts such as NaCOand CaCl in the electrolyte bath. The reduction of Na and or Ca ions on the cathode surface may be a key step through this reduction a significant amount of boron reduction in the molten salt bath is achieved and hence the diffusion of boron into the metal has been accelerated. Again as is clear from boriding depth increases linearly with time in the first 30 minutes. Similar results can be achieved on other metallic or alloy systems by preparing and using highly optimized salt bath compositions. In this example we used a high frequency induction furnace for not only heating but also mixing the electrolyte continuously during the boriding process. Heating or melting of the electrolyte can also be done by electrical resistance heating external gas fires or burners or any other means that can provide necessary heating to the electrolyte. Mixing of molten electrolyte can be done by vibration of the work piece holder or cathode or by ultrasonic magnetic or mechanical mixing of the electrolyte by an appropriate mixer. The rotation of the work piece or cathode may also provide sufficient mixing of the electrolyte and hence faster diffusion of boron atoms into the work pieces. An induction furnace can externally be used to provide mixing of the electrolyte as well while melting of the electrolyte is done by resistive or flame heating. Mixing or agitation of the electrolyte during boriding significantly influenced borided layer thickness and the proportion of each boride phase in the borided layer. For example without any type of mixing or vibrating after 2 hours of boriding a boride layer thickness of about 150 micrometers is achieved in a low carbon steel sample. When the steel sample is rotated at a speed of 50 rpm under the same process conditions and time the layer thickness reached 180 micrometers. If a high frequency induction furnace is used the layer thickness became 215 micrometers under the same process condition and duration.

Increasing the boriding time further say to 60 90 and 120 min the nearly linear relationship between borided layer thickness and boriding time is lost. At such longer boriding times the boride layer thickness continues to increase but not at a linear rate as shown in .

It has also been confirmed that the distance between the anode and cathode specimen or specimen holder is important. Specifically this distance has a dramatic effect on the boriding rate especially when an induction or electrical heating system is used. The results shown in were obtained from a set up where the distance between the anode and cathode was 2 cm and the electrolyte consisted of NaCl. However similar results are obtained with other halides and or carbonates of the alkali and alkaline earth metals. Further when this distance is reduced to 1 cm much faster boriding rates and boride thicknesses as shown in were achieved in an electrolyte which consisted of NaCO. In fact if boriding is continued for a duration of 4 hours the boride layer thickness becomes 230 micrometers in the same electrolyte. compares the results shown in for greater anode cathode distance and to shorter anode cathode distance .

In another aspect of the method of the invention stirring or agitation of electrolyte or vibrating and rotating the work pieces during the boriding process increased the boriding rate and insured a uniform layer thickness in intricate or odd shaped samples.

In another feature of the invention the boriding rate was determined to be a function of the ratio of BO NaO. This ratio can be adjusted and appropriately optimized by introducing additional compounds such as NaCOand CaCl. Reduction of Na cations on the cathode surface may be a key step for the release of boron atoms. Specifically through this reduction a significant amount of boron is reduced to elemental form which eventually diffuses into the work piece and thus accelerates the boriding process. As shown in as the BO NaO ratio decreases the thickness of the total boride and FeB layers increases substantially for the same duration in this case about 1 hour .

It was also determined that boriding temperature has a strong influence in the rate of boriding. As shown in for steel substrates the higher the boriding temperature the thicker the boride layer. Note that this trend may be different for different metals and alloys. At 800 C. the thickness of the boride layer is about 50 micrometers but when the temperature is increased to 1000 C. the boride layer thickness reaches more than 150 micrometers for the same boriding time. A 700 to 1100 C. temperature range is most appropriate for iron based alloys. At much higher temperatures there may be some complications related to process control handling and safety. Durability of anode materials may also degrade. Also certain steels may undergo undesirable structural chemical changes at such high temperatures. For high carbon or carburized steels borided work pieces may be quenched directly from such boriding temperatures to achieve a martensitic structure beneath the borided surface layers. Such a combination of a hard martensite phase with hard boride layer on top could be desirable for demanding mechanical applications.

The variable or high frequency induction furnaces can also be used for achieving a faster boriding rate in steel and other alloys. Such furnaces not only heat but also vigorously agitate or mix the molten electrolyte and hence increase the chances for free boron atoms to reach the surface of work pieces and hence diffusing into the structure.

Another feature of the invention for improved boriding is to maintain a clean surface particularly free of organic contaminants or oxide layers . A brief grinding with 200 to 800 grit emery papers seems to be effective in removing such contaminants and hence increasing the boriding rate. Sometimes applying a reverse polarity to work pieces e.g. making them the anode for a short period also seems to be effective in cleaning the work piece surfaces. Other important parameters that can influence the rate and quality of boriding are current density type of anode materials and their positions in the bath roughness and cleanliness of the work piece surfaces and geometric shape of the work piece.

Micro hardness testing of borided surfaces in cross section revealed a significant increase in their hardness. Specifically the typical measured hardness values of borided top layer were in the range of 1500 1900 HV whereas the hardness of un borided steel was 100 HV as shown in .

These and other objects advantages and features of the invention together with the organization and manner of operation thereof will become more apparent from the following non limiting examples when taken in conjunction with the figures described hereinbefore.

The following Tables I and II show the relationship between total boride and FeB layer thickness and boriding time. Electrolyte composition 10 NaCl 90 NaBO Current density 200 mA cm Temperature 900 C. . After the electrochemical boriding treatment by switching off the power to electrodes and leaving the borided sample in the molton electrolyte for an additional time period e.g. as short as 10 minutes and as long as 2 hours the top FeB layer may be eliminated.

In another example the relationship was determined between current density and total borided and FeB layer thickness as described in Table III below. Electrolyte composition 20 NaCl 80 NaBO Total process time 1 hour Temperature 900 C. . The graphical appearance of boride layer thickness versus current density is shown in .

The relationship between cell potential and the current density 20 NaCl 80 NaBO 1 hour 900 C. is illustrated in from a set of measurements and cross sectional micrographs of the boride layers produced at different current densities are shown in for various current densities for an electrolyte of 20 NaCl plus 80 NaBOat 1 hour and 900 C. Cell potential directly related with resistivity of electrolyte in general 1.5 6V cell potential is the expected range for the working current density applications. Depending on electrolyte resistance cell potential can be as high as 20V. In addition to direct current DC the cell potential may be applied in the radio frequency RF MHz range bi polar pulse DC Hz to kHz range different wave forms e.g. square sine triangle sawtooth etc. and high power impulse modes or any other modes available. In particular the use of pulse DC and RF may prevent any type of diffusion barriers forming on work piece surfaces and hence slowing down the boriding process.

The relationships between total borided and FeB layer thickness and electrolyte process temperature and micrographs Electrolyte 10 NaCl 90 NaBO Process time 1 hour Current density 200 mA cm are shown in Table IV and and A C.

The relationship between BO NaO ratio and boride layer thickness 900 C. 200 mA cm 1 hour is shown in Table V and A E.

Effect of different additives in electrolyte on thickness of borided layer 10 Additive 90 NaBO 200 mA cm 900 C. 1 hour and the results are shown in Table VI and VII and A F and . Hardness values of borided layers produced by using different additives the hardness values are measured on a cross sectional surface.

Bonded and FeB layer thickness dependence on NaCl additive concentration in electrolyte Electrolyte composition X NaCl 100 X NaBO process time was 1 hour and the current density was 200 mA cm and results shown in Table VIII and .

Effect of boriding time on borided layer thickness on a 99.7 pure titanium substrate is shown in . Process conditions and electrolyte compositions were 950 C. 300 mA cm 15 NaCOand 85 NaBO. The results with respect to borided time are shown in Table VIII and A H and .

As shown in metal surfaces can be masked selectively and only the areas that are not masked will be borided. In another method a burner flame can be used to melt an electrolyte in a preferred area and then an electrochemical cell can be established on that area to selectively boride the area where the electrolyte is present. As shown only the exposed surface was borided. The transition from the borided to the unborided surface is sharp 40 m . This sharp transition cannot be achieved by traditional boriding processes and could be important for some applications. Various coating methods such as electroless or electrochemical plating can be used to deposit thin layers of copper or other metals to mask the areas where boriding is not desired.

As demonstrated from the Examples provided above ultra fast boriding can be achieved in both the ferrous and non ferrous metals and alloys. These borided metals and alloys can be used in a variety of manufacturing earthmoving agricultural aerospace and transportation applications such as metal forming tools fuel injectors gears bearings and some of the power and drive train applications in cars and tracks blades and cutters used in agricultural forestry and earthmoving applications. Turbine and helicopter blades impellers mixers and other components subject to wind sand and solid particle slurry erosion or abrasion can also be treated by the new method and protected. More specifically these borided surface layers can prevent wear and scuffing between heavily loaded rolling rotating or sliding surfaces under lubricated sliding conditions which are typical of these mechanical components and others like chain links used in conveyor belts and other heavy machinery such as earth moving equipments etc . One of the most important features of these borided surfaces is their ability to function under severe loading conditions and provide low friction and wear with and without lubrication.

This new ultra fast boriding process can also be used to boride the pre carburized and nitrided surfaces. In the case of pre carburized steel surfaces a compound layer consisting of not only iron borides but also boron carbides free boron and carbon are also formed. In the case of pre nitrided surfaces a compound layer consisting of not only iron borides but also boron nitride and free boron are produced. Surfaces that are ion implanted or laser cladded and alloyed with various elements may also be borided by the new technique and the borides of such elements formed during boriding can then provide greater hardness and other desirable properties such as low friction and wear and greater protection against corrosion and erosion as well a better biocompatibility and or reactivity.

Ultra fast boriding is environmentally benign and there are no toxic raw materials involved and by products to discard or deal with after the boriding process. The process also does not produce any fumes or green house gases. In the other boriding processes new baths are needed and the old ones must be discarded properly and in the case of gas phase boriding there are some toxic gases that need to be handled carefully. One of the other advantages of the new process is that the electrolyte can be re used multiple times. There is no need to discard and re supply active ingredients except for the boron compounds . Again the new process is environmentally benign and there are no toxic by products to discard or deal with. In the new process there is little deposit to clean from the borided surface remaining deposits mainly salts are washed away in running water or removed by mechanical brushes or tumbling in a sand box.

While several different features and embodiments are described above it is understood that changes and modifications can be made to the invention without departing from the invention s broader aspects. Therefore the present invention is not limited to the described and illustrated embodiments but only by the scope and spirit of the independent and dependent claims.

