---

title: Proximate beacon identification
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems are disclosed for identifying a proximate beacon to a mobile device. One or more first received signal strengths (RSSs), relative to the mobile device, may be received and used to determine a first average signal strength (RSS) and a first average RSS deviation for a first beacon during an observation period. An average RSS deviation for the observation period can be determined using the first average RSS deviation (e.g., and other average RSS deviations). If the average RSS deviation meets a desired deviation threshold, the first beacon may be identified as the proximate beacon. In this manner, if the user of the mobile device consents to the same, the user may be provided with relevant information (e.g., advertisements) on the mobile device while in a locale (e.g., store) corresponding to the (known) location of the beacon, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08862067&OS=08862067&RS=08862067
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08862067
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120327
---
Computing devices have become more portable and mobile devices have become more interactive with a user s surroundings. For example a mapping application running on the user s mobile device e.g. smartphone may allow the user to identify their approximate location on a map displayed on the mobile device. Further points of interest retails establishments entertainment venues and more can be indicated on such a map for example which can be searched for and or identified as the user moves through an area. Typically mobile devices use global positioning systems GPS which utilize satellite triangulation or some sort of signal triangulation e.g. mobile phone signal to identify the approximate location of the user. This location information can be used by various applications on the user s device such as to provide appropriate and relevant local information identify the user s location for social networking and more.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Current global positioning systems GPS and or other location identification services used on mobile devices may not provide needed fidelity for some user experiences such as applications running on the mobile device and or information provided to mobile device data providers. For example the GPS systems can have an error range of thirty to fifty feet which may not provide needed fidelity when the user experience needs the user to be immediately or at least substantially proximate to a specific location.

Further while the GPS and mobile signal triangulation can provide an approximate position of the user relative to a mapped point a distance from the user to a particular object may not meet granularity requirements to properly interact such as identifying a location from several overlapping locations. Additionally GPS type location tracking loses reliability when a mobile device is inside a building or under cover e.g. parking garage . Even in optimal conditions a GPS may not be able tell that the user is inside a particular building standing in front of a particular display in a store etc.

Accordingly among other things one or more techniques and or systems are provided that utilize a signal transmissions from one or more local beacons to identify a potential location of a mobile device e.g. and thus an associated user using the mobile device . For example the mobile device may detect signals e.g. wireless signals from one or more beacons respectively positioned in different locations e.g. stores throughout a building etc. of a larger area. The received signals can be analyzed and filtered to identify a set of signals from a proximate beacon e.g. closest to the mobile device . Further if the user is non stationary e.g. moving through a shopping center a non stationary condition can be detected and a proximate beacon may not be identified e.g. as the user may be proximate to several beacons while moving . The location awareness provided herein can help determine a potential location of the mobile device user relative to a known location e.g. the proximate beacon may be known to be installed in a particular store . In this way rich content e.g. relative to the user s location can be provided to the user e.g. on the fly on the mobile device .

In one embodiment of identifying a proximate beacon to a mobile device a first average received signal strength RSS can be determined for a first beacon and a first average RSS deviation can be determined for the first beacon. The determinations may be based at least upon a received first RSS that is relative to a mobile device over a desired observation period. Further an average RSS deviation can be determined for the desired observation period using at least the first average RSS deviation. If the average RSS deviation meets a desired deviation threshold the first beacon can be identified as a proximate beacon using the first average RSS.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

As provided herein a method may be devised that can provide for identifying a location of a mobile device e.g. and the user of the mobile device in proximity to a beacon device. That is for example one or more beacons may be respectively located in portions e.g. stores of an area e.g. a mall . In this example the respective beacons can output a wireless signal that can be detected by the mobile device when the mobile device is within a certain proximity of respective beacons. The mobile device may detect one or more signals from one or more beacons over an observation period and a beacon closest to the mobile device for example may be identified based on an average signal strength detected over the observation period. In this way for example the portion of the area e.g. a particular store in the mall in which the user is located may also be identified.

As one example the beacon may be a device that periodically e.g. or continuously transmits a signal such as short distance wireless e.g. Bluetooth low energy medium distance wireless e.g. Wi Fi and or other electric magnetic and or electro magnetic etc. transmissions. In this example a mobile device may be configured to detect the transmitted signals from the beacon such that when the mobile device is located within a transmission range the signal may be detected. Further for example the mobile device may be able to identify a receive signal strength e.g. a received signal strength indicator RSSI for the detected signal which may be used to determine an approximate distance between the mobile device and the beacon.

One or more first RSSs from over during etc. the observation period can be used to determine the first average RSS for the first beacon for example comprising an average signal strength for transmitted signals received by the mobile device during the observation period. Further in this example the one or more first RSSs from the observation period can be combined with the first average RSS to determine the first average RSS deviation for the first beacon for example comprising a statistical dispersion or variability of the respective one or more first RSSs e.g. how much the strength of the signals detected by the mobile device varies .

At in the exemplary method an average RSS deviation can be determined for the desired observation period based at least upon the first average RSS deviation. As one example the first average RSS deviation may be combined with one or more second average RSS deviations if available to determine the average RSS deviation for the period e.g. period average RSS deviation .

For example signals transmitted by a second beacon e.g. and a third fourth etc. may be detected by the mobile device and the respective RSSs can be averaged e.g. a second RSS average . In this example the RSS averages for the second beacon e.g. second RSS averages may be used to identify a second average RSS deviation which can be combined with the first average RSS deviation to identify the period average RSS deviation e.g. the average RSS deviation for all beacons during the observation period .

At in the exemplary method if the average RSS deviation meets a desired deviation threshold the first beacon is identified as a proximate beacon based at least upon the first average RSS. As one example a greater average RSS deviation may indicate that the mobile device e.g. detecting the respective beacon RSSs was non stationary during the observation period. That is for example a beacon signal strength detected by the mobile device may vary widely between respective signal detections when the mobile device is moving. In one embodiment the desired deviation threshold may be determined using empirical data and may be adjusted based on updated observed data related to stationary and or non stationary mobile device signal detection. For example the desired deviation threshold may indicate a threshold level of mobile device movement e.g. within a specified area during an observation period for detecting a proximate beacon.

As one example if the period average RSS deviation meets the desired deviation threshold the beacon having a strong average RSS may be selected as the proximate beacon. For example a higher greater etc. average RSS may indicate that the beacon is closer than a beacon with a lower lesser etc. average RSS. For example if there is merely one beacon such as the first beacon the first average RSS may comprises the highest value. Therefore in this example the first beacon can be selected as the proximate beacon e.g. closest . As another example if there is more than one beacon the beacon comprising the highest average RSS value may be selected as the proximate e.g. closest beacon to the mobile device.

In one embodiment at the one or more beacons may transmit a signal comprising an indication of a corresponding beacon ID. If the mobile device is located within a signal range of one or more of the one or more beacons the mobile device may detect the signal s . In one embodiment the mobile device may be able to identify a strength of a detected signal. As one example when a mobile phone a Wi Fi enabled device and or low energy e.g. Bluetooth enabled device receives a compatible phone signal Wi Fi signal and or low energy signal the device may detect the signal strength and for example provide a RSS indicator to the user e.g. number and or height of signal bars . The mobile device can create a beacon data report for the detected signal for example comprising the RSS and the beacon ID corresponding to the RSS e.g. and send out the beacon data report such as to a remote service .

As an illustrative example illustrates and example embodiment where one or more portions of one or more techniques described herein may be implemented. In this example a shopping center may comprise a plurality of shops respectively comprising a beacon A E . In this example when a user with a mobile device e.g. configured to detect beacon signals enters a shop in the center the mobile device may detect a signal from a beacon D located in the shop. Further in this example the mobile device may detect one or more signals from other beacons A C E located in nearby shops e.g. depending on the signal range etc. . In this example the mobile device may prepare one or more beacon data reports respectively corresponding to signals received from a beacon in a shop and the one or more reports may be sent such as over a network to a remote locator service e.g. a cloud based service providing mobile device location services .

Returning to at a desired observation period can be determined. In one embodiment the desired observation period may comprise a period of time during which a desired number of beacon data reports are received. As one example the desired number of beacon data reports may comprise a number that provides a statistically significant result when identifying the proximate beacon e.g. one that is unlikely to have occurred by mere chance . The desired observation period may depend on one or more factors such as a signal transmission frequency e.g. period between transmissions not radio frequency report receiving frequency beacon signal strength empirical data for RSS deviation and others for example.

As one example the desired observation period may be long enough to receive a statistically significant number of reports but not too long as to allow for higher RSS deviation if when the mobile device user moves. As an illustrative example in a stationary mobile device will typically receive a series of beacon signals e.g. from one or more beacons that have a small RSS deviation as a distance between the device and respective beacons remains relatively constant and a signal transmission strength from the beacons also remains relatively constant. However the RSS deviation for a non stationary mobile device e.g. where the user may be moving from shop to shop may be larger as the distance between the non stationary mobile device and the respective beacons may change as the user moves.

Therefore for example typical user movements may be identified e.g. empirically and used to determine the desired observation period and or used to update the desired observation period. As one example a user may remain relatively stationary for an average of four seconds within a store. In this example respective beacon signal transmission frequencies e.g. period between transmissions may be calibrated to transmit enough signals within the four seconds to provide a statistically significant number of beacon data reports.

In another embodiment the desired observation period may be determined by the number of beacon data reports received e.g. for one or more of the beacons . As one example a first average RSS for the first beacon may not be determined at least until a desired number of first beacon data reports are received for the first beacon thereby determining a length of the desired observation period. For example the desired observation period may comprise a period of time that remains open until a statistically significant e.g. adequate number of beacon data reports are received.

Returning to at RSS outliers may be filtered out. In one embodiment an outlier RSS may be identified in one or more of the received beacon data reports and if identified the outlier RSS may not be used in determining an average RSS for the beacon associated with the outlier RSS e.g. the first average RSS for the first beacon . As one example some building mechanical electrical and other components devices may impart a type of interference e.g. electrical noise on a beacon signal transmission sent by the beacon and or received by the mobile device and or an RSS for a signal from a beacon may vary over time e.g. even when the device is not moving such as from an object moving between the sending beacon and receiving device and or from random noise or variations in electronic circuitry in transmitter and or receiver components for example. A false signal may for example be received by the mobile device where the false signal may not comprise an appropriate representation of a RSS for the beacon e.g. a corrupted signal and or may comprise a signal that is not from the beacon e.g. transmitted by another electrical component .

Signal noise and or a false signal may result in a sharp increase or decrease in a RSS for a beacon for example which may be identified when compared with one or more prior or subsequent RSSs received for the beacon. As one example identifying the outlier RSS may comprise computing a RSS difference between a first and second RSS for a beacon and comparing the RSS difference to a difference threshold that is indicative of an outlier RSS. For example if the second RSS comprises a fifty percent jump from the first RSS received at a one second interval the second RSS may comprise an outlier RSS as the mobile device is not likely to be able to move close enough to the beacon within one second to produce the fifty percent increase in RSS.

At in the example embodiment an average RSS can be determined for one or more beacon data reports received for respective one or more beacons during the desired observation period. As an illustrative example is a graph illustrating an example embodiment of data in received beacon data reports. In this example embodiment RSS is indicated by the Y axis and time is indicated by the X axis . An observation period comprises a period time during which beacon RSSs may be used when determining an average RSS for the respective beacons B B B and B.

In this example a first and second RSS for beacon B do not fall within the observation period therefore beacon B may not be included in determination of the proximate beacon. Further a first and second RSS for beacon B a first RSS for beacon B and a first RSS for beacon B also fall outside the observation period and these respective RSSs may not be included when determining the average RSS for the respective beacons B B and B.

In one embodiment an average RSS e.g. for respective beacons B B and B of can be determined by summing respective RSS values for the beacon during the observation period e.g. of and dividing the sum by a number of RSS values identified during the observation period. As an illustrative example in for beacon B the RSS values identified in the observation period may comprise e.g. in decibels per milliwatt dBmW negative forty two 42 negative fifty six 56 negative twenty 20 negative fifty 50 and negative forty five 45 respectively. In this example the sum of these RSS values comprises negative two hundred and thirteen e.g. 42 56 20 50 45 213 . Therefore an average RSS for beacon B can comprise negative forty two point six dividing negative two hundred and thirteen by five five RSS values e.g. 213 5 42.6 . In this embodiment an average RSS value may also be determined for the beacons B and B. It may be appreciated that in one example the RSS value for beacon B of negative twenty may be omitted as an outlier and thus not included in the calculation of the average RSS for beacon B e.g. because the value of negative twenty is too different from the other RSS values for beacon B e.g. influenced by noise etc. .

In one aspect a first beacon may comprise a first signal transmission strength and a second beacon may comprise a second signal transmission strength. As one example the mobile device may receive the first and second signals where the first signal RSS is higher than the second signal RSS even though the second beacon may be located closer to the mobile device. For example if the second closer beacon transmits at a lower power the resulting RSS may not be indicative of the distance between the mobile device and second beacon when compared with the first beacon e.g. and or other beacons that have a higher transmission power than the second beacon .

In one embodiment in this aspect the average RSS for a beacon may be normalized to account for signal transmission power. As one example the beacon data report for the first and or second beacon may further comprise a first and or second transmission power value. A beacon s transmission power value may also be received from the beacon for example such as in a signal received from the beacon e.g. alternative to and or in addition to a beacon data report for the beacon . The first and or second transmission power value may be used for example to normalize the average RSS for the first and or second beacon when compared with average RSSs of other beacons.

In one embodiment the transmission power value comprised in the beacon data report may be used to determine a signal attenuation for the beacon. As one example the first transmission power value and the first RSS may be used to determine a first signal attenuation for the first beacon e.g. the first transmission power value may be subtracted from the first RSS to determine the first signal attenuation for the first beacon . Further in this example the first average RSS may comprise an average of first signal attenuations for the first beacon during the observation period. In this way for example the transmission power value can be accounted for in average RSSs for the respective beacons.

Returning to at a beacon RSS deviation can be determined for the respective beacons for which the average RSS has been identified e.g. those identified during the observation period . As one example the beacon RSS deviation may be determined by determining a statistical sample variance such as absolute deviation or standard deviation e.g. root mean square deviation . For example As an illustrative example in an absolute deviation for beacon B may comprise 42 42.6 56 42.6 20 42.6 50 42.6 45 42.6 9.3 Further in this example a standard deviation for beacon B may comprise 42 42.6 56 42.6 20 42.6 50 42.6 45 42.6 12.3 In this embodiment a beacon RSS deviation value may also be determined for the beacons B and B.

Returning to at an average RSS deviation can be determined for the desired observation period. As one example respective beacon RSS deviation values determined for the beacons during the observation period may be used to determine the average RSS deviation for the desired observation period. As an illustrative example in the standard deviation value for beacon B e.g. may be combined with the respective standard deviations for beacons B and B e.g. sum the standard deviation values from respective beacons and divide by three three standard deviation values used to determine the average RSS deviation for the observation period .

If the average RSS deviation for the observation period does not meet the desired deviation threshold e.g. is higher than the threshold NO at no proximate beacon may be identified for the mobile device at . That is for example an average RSS deviation that is greater than the deviation threshold may indicate that the mobile device was non stationary during the observation period e.g. the user was moving from shop to shop of thereby indicating that the mobile device may not have been proximate to any one beacon during the observation period.

If the average RSS deviation for the observation period meets the desired deviation threshold e.g. is equal to or lower than the threshold YES at a number of beacons for which RSS data was received can be identified at for example by identifying how may average RSSs e.g. of were identified. If more than one beacon is identified e.g. by identifying how may average RSS were determined NO at the respective average RSSs can be compared to determine if an outstanding average RSS is indicated at . As one example an outstanding average RSS may comprise a highest average RSS. For example a highest average RSS value may indicate a closest beacon if respective detected beacons comprise a similar signal transmission strength e.g. the beacons transmit their signals detected by the mobile device at relatively the same strength .

If no outstanding average RSSs are identified NO at no proximate beacon may be identified e.g. a proximate beacon is not able to be determined at . As one example a first average RSS value may be similar e.g. within a desired RSS range as a second average RSS value e.g. and or similar to a third fourth etc. . In this example where no one RSS value stands out from the set of average RSS values for the observation period the mobile device may be proximate to more than one beacon e.g. within a similar distance .

If an outstanding average RSSs is identified YES at the outstanding average RSS can be compared to a desired RSS threshold at . In one embodiment the desired RSS threshold can comprise an RSS value for example where the RSS threshold value may comprise a desired signal strength that indicates a desired distance from a beacon. For example if the outstanding average RSS is below the desired RSS threshold e.g. indicating a weak signal the mobile device may have been located outside an area covered by the beacon associated with the outstanding average RSS e.g. outside the shop comprising the beacon .

Further at if merely one average RSS is detected from one beacon YES at the average RSS for the one beacon can be compared to the desired RSS threshold at . As one example a value of the one average RSS detected may be compared to the threshold RSS value to determine whether the mobile device may have been located outside the area covered by the beacon associated with the one average RSS.

In one embodiment the desired RSS threshold may comprise an RSS value difference between a first average RSS for a first beacon and a second average RSS for a second different beacon. As one example the first average RSS may comprise the outstanding average RSS identified at and the second average RSS may comprise a next e.g. having a nearest value to the first average RSS average RSS. In this example a difference between the first average RSS value and the second average RSS value can be compared with the RSS value difference threshold. For example the RSS value difference threshold may comprise a signal strength range within which a proximate beacon may not be indicated e.g. there is not enough RSS difference between two beacons to identify the actual proximate beacon .

In one embodiment the desired RSS threshold may comprise an RSS value proportion difference between the first average RSS and the second average RSS. As one example an RSS value difference of eight e.g. dBmW between the first RSS average and the second RSS average may comprise a higher proportion of first RSS average if the first RSS average value was negative thirty two e.g. twenty five percent than if the first RSS average value was negative eighty e.g. ten percent .

In this embodiment for example the RSS value proportion difference threshold may comprise a proportion e.g. a percentage or some other representation of proportion of the difference between the outstanding RSS average and the next RSS average to the outstanding RSS average e.g. ten to one 10 etc. . In this example a RSS value difference that does not meet the RSS value proportion difference threshold may indicate that a proximate beacon cannot be determined e.g. there is not enough RSS difference proportionally between two beacons to identify the actual proximate beacon .

In another embodiment a first function e.g. a curve of RSS difference threshold may be used in identifying the desired RSS difference threshold such as by comparing the first average RSS e.g. the outstanding RSS to the function for example. The function of RSS difference threshold may be plotted as a curve for example and the first average RSS may be compared against the curve to determine on which side of the curve the first average RSS lays. In this example if the first average RSS is on a side of the curve that allows for identifying the RSS as within a desired range and or distinct from a second RSS the corresponding beacon may be selected as the proximate beacon.

In another embodiment a second function may represent a mapping of the outstanding RSS average to the desired RSS difference threshold. As one example the second function may be applied to the outstanding RSS average e.g. first RSS average . For example a difference between the outstanding RSS average e.g. first RSS average and a next RSS average e.g. second RSS average can be compared with the second function to determine if the beacon associated with the outstanding RSS average e.g. first RSS average may be selected as the proximate beacon such as where the difference between the outstanding RSS average and the next RSS average is greater than the desired RSS difference threshold for example.

At if the selected average RSS e.g. the one detected RSS average of or the outstanding RSS average of does not meet the desired RSS threshold e.g. the RSS value threshold value the RSS value difference threshold and or the RSS value proportion difference threshold NO at no proximate beacon may be identified at . If the selected average RSS does meet the desired RSS threshold YES at the beacon associated with the selected average RSS may be selected as the proximate beacon at .

In one embodiment the beacon associated with the selected average RSS may be identified using a beacon identifier ID . As described above for example a beacon ID may be associated with a corresponding beacon in a database. Additionally in this example the signal transmitted by the beacon associated with the selected average RSS may comprises an indication of the beacon ID e.g. in the beacon data report . The beacon ID may be used to identify the associated beacon in the database for example thereby identifying the proximate beacon.

In one embodiment at in the example embodiment a potential location of the mobile device may be determined based at least upon the proximate beacon. As one example as described above the beacon ID may be associated with the beacon location in the database. For example an installation location of the proximate beacon e.g. in a shop can be linked to the beacon ID for the proximate beacon in the database and the beacon ID can be used to identify that installation location. Further for example the location of the proximate beacon may be used as a likely location of the mobile device user e.g. in the same shop .

A system may be devised for that can identify a probable location of a mobile device e.g. within a known area in proximity to a beacon device transmitting a locating signal. For example a plurality of beacons may respectively transmit a wireless signal detectable by a mobile device within range of the signal. Signals detected by the mobile device over an observation period can be analyzed to identify a beacon that may be most proximate to the mobile device based on an average signal strength. Further a non stationary mobile device e.g. a user of the device is moving may be detected and a proximate beacon may not be identified.

In the exemplary system a period average RSS deviation determination component is configured to determine an average RSS deviation for the desired observation period based at least upon the first average RSS deviation for the desired observation period. Additionally if the first average RSS deviation meets a desired deviation threshold a proximate beacon selection component is configured to identify a proximate beacon based at least upon the first average RSS . In this exemplary system at least some of the system is implemented at least in part via a processing unit .

In one embodiment the proximate beacon selection component may be configured to identify the first beacon as the proximate beacon if merely the first average RSS is received. That is for example if only one set of RSS data is received corresponding to a single beacon that beacon may be selected as the proximate beacon . In one embodiment the proximate beacon selection component may be configured to identify the first beacon as the proximate beacon if the first average RSS meets a desired RSS threshold. As one example the desired RSS threshold may comprise a desired signal strength e.g. corresponding to a limiting distance from the beacon a RSS value difference between the first and a second RSS average e.g. indicating that two different beacons may be within a similar range from the mobile device and or a RSS value proportion difference between the first and second average RSS.

In the example embodiment a beacon data report receiving component may be configured to receive a beacon data report from a mobile device . The beacon data report can comprise a detected beacon RSS corresponding to a detected beacon and or a detected beacon identifier corresponding to the detected beacon. A database component can be configured to identify a detected beacon based at least upon the detected beacon identifier . As one example the mobile device may detect a signal transmitted from the first beacon. In this example the first beacon s signal can comprise a first beacon identifier . Further the mobile device can detect a strength of the first beacon s signal and prepare and send a report comprising the detected signal strength RSS of the first beacon along with the first beacon identifier .

The example system comprises an observation period determination component that may be configured to determine a desired observation period used to identify appropriate data for identifying the proximate beacon. The desired observation period may comprise a period of time during which a desired number of beacon data reports are received such as by the beacon data report receiving component . For example the desired observation period may be used to identify which received RSSs may be used to determine the one or more average RSSs the first e.g. second third etc. average RSS deviation and or the average RSS deviation .

In the example embodiment a filtering component may be configured to filter out an outlier RSS. In one embodiment the filtering component may identify the outlier RSS in a received beacon data report and filter out the outlier RSS from use in determining an average RSS for the beacon associated with the outlier RSS. For example interference e.g. electrical noise from some building mechanical electrical and other components devices may produce a false beacon signal and or a signal strength may vary over time due to temporary obstructions variations in circuitry etc. which may not be indicative of the actual beacon signal strength received by the mobile device. Signal noise and or a false signal may result in a sharp increase or decrease in a RSS for a beacon for example which may be identified when compared with one or more prior or subsequent RSSs received for the beacon.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Further At least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

