---

title: Crowd-sourcing pronunciation corrections in text-to-speech engines
abstract: Technologies are described herein for providing validated text-to-speech correction hints from aggregated pronunciation corrections received from text-to-speech applications. A number of pronunciation corrections are received by a Web service. The pronunciation corrections may be provided by users of text-to-speech applications executing on a variety of user computer systems. Each of the plurality of pronunciation corrections includes a specification of a word or phrase and a suggested pronunciation provided by the user. The pronunciation corrections are analyzed to generate validated correction hints, and the validated correction hints are provided back to the text-to-speech applications to be used to correct pronunciation of words and phrases in the text-to-speech applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09275633&OS=09275633&RS=09275633
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09275633
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120109
---
Text to speech TTS technology is used in many software applications executing on a variety of computing devices such as providing spoken turn by turn navigation on a GPS system reading incoming text or email messages on a mobile device speaking song titles or artist names on a media player and the like. May TTS engines may utilize a dictionary of pronunciations for common words and or phrases. When a word or phrase is not listed in the dictionary these TTS engines may rely on fairly limited phonetic rules to determine the correct pronunciation of the word or phrase.

However such TTS engines may be prone to errors as a result of the complexity of the rules governing correct use of phonetics based on a wide range of possible cultural and linguistic sources of a word or phrase. For example many street and other places in a region may be named using indigenous and or immigrant names. A set of phonetic rules written for a non indigenous or differing language or for a more widely utilized dialect of the language may not be able to decode the correct pronunciation of the street names or place names. Similarly even when a dictionary pronunciation for a word or phrase is available in the desired language the pronunciation may not match local norms for pronunciation of the word or phrase. Such errors in pronunciation may impact the user s comprehension and trust in the software application.

Technologies are described herein for providing validated text to speech correction hints from aggregated pronunciation corrections received from text to speech applications. Utilizing the technologies described herein crowd sourcing techniques can be used to collect corrections to mispronunciations of words or phrases in text to speech applications and aggregate them in a central corpus. Game theory and other data validation techniques may then be applied to the corpus to validate the pronunciation corrections and generate a set of corrections with a high level of confidence in their validity and quality. Validated pronunciation corrections can also be generated for specific locales or particular classes of users in order to support regional dialects or localized pronunciation preferences. The validated pronunciation corrections may then be provided back to the text to speech applications to be used in providing correct pronunciations of words or phrases to users of the application. Thus words and phrases may be pronounced in a manner familiar to a particular user or users in a particular locale thus improving recognition of the speech produced and increasing confidence of the users in the application or system.

According to embodiments a number of pronunciation corrections are received by a Web service. The pronunciation corrections may be provided by users of text to speech applications executing on a variety of user computer systems. Each of the plurality of pronunciation corrections includes a specification of a word or phrase and a suggested pronunciation provided by the user. The received pronunciation corrections are analyzed to generate validated correction hints and the validated correction hints are provided back to the text to speech applications to be used to correct pronunciation of words and phrases in the text to speech applications.

It will be appreciated that the above described subject matter may be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The following detailed description is directed to technologies for providing validated text to speech correction hints from aggregated pronunciation corrections received from text to speech applications. While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and that show by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. In the accompanying drawings like numerals represent like elements through the several figures.

According to embodiments the user computer system executes a text to speech application that includes text to speech TTS capabilities. For example the text to speech application may be a GPS navigation system that includes spoken turn by turn directions a media player application that reads the title artist album and other information regarding the currently playing media a voice activated communication system that reads text messages email contacts and other communication related content to a user a voice enabled gaming system or social media application and the like.

The TTS capabilities of the text to speech application may be provided by a TTS engine . The TTS engine may be a module of the text to speech application or may be a text to speech service with which the text to speech application can communicate over a network for example. The TTS engine may receive text comprising words and phrases from the text to speech application which are converted to audible speech and output through a speaker on the user computer system or other device. In order to convert the text to speech the TTS engine may utilize a pronunciation dictionary which contains many common words and phrases along with pronunciation rules for these words and phrases. Alternatively or if a word or phrase is not found in the pronunciation dictionary the TTS engine may utilize phonetic rules that allow the words and phrases to be parsed into phonemes and then converted to audible speech. It will be appreciated that the pronunciation dictionary and or phonetic rules may be specific for a particular language or may contain entries and rules for multiple languages with the language to be utilized selectable by a user of the user computer system .

In some embodiments the TTS engine may further utilize correction hints in converting the text to audible speech. The correction hints may contain additional or alternative pronunciations for specific words and phrases and or overrides for certain phonetic rules . With traditional text to speech applications these correction hints may be provided by a user of the user computer system . For example after speaking a word or phrase the TTS engine or the text to speech application may provide a mechanism for the user to provide feedback regarding the pronunciation of the word or phrase referred to herein as a pronunciation correction . The pronunciation correction may comprise a phonetic spelling of the correct pronunciation of the word or phrase a selection of a pronunciation from a list of alternative pronunciations provided to the user a recording of the user speaking the word or phrase using the correct pronunciation or the like.

The pronunciation correction may be provided through a user interface provided by the TTS engine and or the text to speech application . For example after hearing a misspoken word or phrase the user may indicate through the user interface that a correction is necessary. The TTS engine or text to speech application may visually and or audibly provide a list of alternative pronunciations for the word or phrase and allow the user to select the correct pronunciation for the word or phrase from the list. Additionally or alternatively the TTS engine and or the text to speech application may allow the user to speak the word or phrase using the correct pronunciation. The TTS engine may further decode the spoken word or phrase to generate a phonetic spelling for the pronunciation correction . In another embodiment the TTS engine may then add an entry to the correction hints on the local user computer system for the corrected pronunciation of the word or phrase as specified in the pronunciation correction .

According to embodiments the environment further includes a speech correction system . The speech correction system supplies text to speech correction services and other services to TTS engines and or text to speech applications running on user computer systems as well as other computing systems. In this regard the speech correction system may include a number of application servers that provide the various services to the TTS engines and or the text to speech applications . The application servers may represent standard server computers database servers web servers network appliances desktop computers other computing devices and any combination thereof. The application servers may execute a number of modules in order to provide the text to speech correction services. The modules may execute on a single application server or in parallel across multiple application servers in speech correction system . In addition each module may comprise a number of subcomponents executing on different application servers or other computing devices in the speech correction system . The modules may be implemented as software hardware or any combination of the two.

A correction submission service executes on the application servers . The correction submission service allows pronunciation corrections to be submitted to the speech correction system by the TTS engines and or the text to speech applications executing on the user computer system across one or more networks . According to embodiments when a user of the TTS engine or the text to speech application provides feedback regarding the pronunciation of a word or phrase in a pronunciation correction the TTS engine or the text to speech application may submit the pronunciation correction to the speech correction system through the correction submission service . The speech correction system aggregates the submitted pronunciation corrections and performs additional analysis to generate validated correction hints as will be described in detail below.

The networks may represent any combination of local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs the Internet or any other networking topology known in the art that connects the user computer systems to the application servers in the speech correction system . In one embodiment the correction submission service may be implemented as a Representational State Transfer REST Web service. Alternatively the correction submission service may be implemented in any other remote service architecture known in the art including a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP Web service a JAVA Remote Method Invocation RMI service a WINDOWS Communication Foundation WCF service and the like. The correction submission service may store the submitted pronunciation corrections along with additional data regarding the submission in a database or other storage system in the speech correction system for further analysis.

According to embodiments a correction validation module also executes on the application servers . The correction validation module may analyze the submitted pronunciation corrections to generate the validated correction hints as will be described in more detail below in regard to . The correction validation module may run periodically to scan all submitted pronunciation corrections or the correction validation module may be initiated for each pronunciation correction received.

In some embodiments the correction validation module further utilizes submitter ratings in analyzing the pronunciation corrections as will be described in more detail below. The submitter ratings may contain data regarding the quality applicability and or validity of the pronunciation corrections submitted by particular users of text to speech applications . The submitter ratings may be automatically generated by the correction validation module during the analysis of submitted pronunciation corrections and or manually maintained by administrators of the speech correction system . The submitter ratings may be stored in the database or other data storage system of the speech correction system .

As shown in each pronunciation correction may contain an indication of the word phrase for which the correction is being submitted. For example the word phrase data element may contain the text that was submitted to the TTS engine causing the mispronunciation of the word or phrase to occur. The pronunciation correction also contains the suggested pronunciation provided by the user of the text to speech application . As discussed above the suggested pronunciation may comprise a phonetic spelling of the correct pronunciation of the word phrase a recording of the user speaking the word phrase and the like.

In one embodiment the pronunciation correction may additionally contain the original pronunciation of the word phrase as provided by the TTS engine . The original pronunciation may comprise a phonetic spelling of the word phrase as taken from the TTS engine s pronunciation dictionary or the phonetic rules used to decode the pronunciation of the word or phrase for example. The original pronunciation may be included in the pronunciation correction to allow the correction validation module to analyze the differences between the suggested pronunciation and the original mispronunciation in order to generate more generalized validated correction hints regarding words and phrases of the same origin language locale and the like and or the phonetic rules involved in the pronunciation of the word or phrase.

The pronunciation correction may further contain a submitter ID identifying the user of the text to speech application from which the pronunciation correction was submitted. The submitter ID may be utilized by the correction validation module during the analysis of the submitted pronunciation corrections to lookup a submitter rating regarding the user which may be utilized to weight the pronunciation correction in the generation of the validated correction hints as will be described below. In one embodiment the text to speech applications and or TTS engines configured to utilize the speech correction services of the speech correction system may be architected to generate a globally unique submitter ID based on a local identification of the user currently using the user computer system for example so that unique submitter IDs and submitter ratings may be maintained for a broad range of users utilizing a broad range of systems and devices and or text to speech applications .

In another embodiment the correction submission service may determine a submitter ID from a combination of information submitted with the pronunciation correction such as a name or identifier of the text to speech application and or TTS engine an IP address MAC address or other identifier of the specific user computer system from which the correction was submitted and the like. In further embodiments the submitter ID may be a non machine specific identifier of a particular user such as an email address so that user ratings may be maintained for the user based on pronunciation feedback provided by that user across a number of different user computer systems and or text to speech applications over time. It will be appreciated that the text to speech applications may provide a mechanism for users to provide opt in permission for the submission of personally identifiable information such as a submitter ID comprising an email address IP address MAC address or other user specific identifier and that submission of personally identifiable information will only be submitted based on the user s opt in permission.

The pronunciation correction may also contain an indication of the locale of usage for the word phrase from which the correction is being submitted. As will be described in more detail below the validated correction hints may be location specific based on the locale of usage from which the pronunciation corrections were received. The locale of usage may indicate a geographical region city state country or the like. The locale of usage may be determined by the text to speech application based on the location of the user computer system when the pronunciation correction was submitted such as from a GPS location determined by a GPS navigation system or mobile phone. Alternatively or additionally the locale of usage may be determined by the correction submission service based on an identifier of the user computer system from which the pronunciation correction was submitted such as an IP address of the computing device for example.

The pronunciation correction may further contain a class of submitter data element indicating one or more classifications for the user that submitted the correction. Similar to the locale of usage described above the validated correction hints may alternatively or additionally be specific to certain classes of users based on the class of submitter submitted with the pronunciation corrections . The class of submitter may include an indication of the user s language dialect nationality location of residence age and the like. The class of submitter may be specified by the text to speech application based on a profile or preferences provided by the current user of the user computer system .

It will be appreciated that as in the case of the user specific submitter ID described above personally identifiable information such as a location of the user or user computer system nationality residence age and the like may only be submitted and or collected based on the user s opt in permission. It will be further appreciated that the pronunciation correction may contain additional data elements beyond those shown in and described above that are utilized by the correction validation module and or other modules of the speech correction system in analyzing the submitted pronunciation corrections and generating the validated correction hints .

Referring now to additional details will be provided regarding the embodiments presented herein. It should be appreciated that the logical operations described with respect to are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. It should also be appreciated that more or fewer operations may be performed than shown in the figures and described herein. The operations may also be performed in a different order than described.

The routine begins at operation where the correction submission service receives a number of pronunciation corrections from text to speech applications and or TTS engines running on one or more user computer systems . Some text to speech applications and or TTS engines may submit pronunciation corrections to the correction submission service at the time the pronunciation feedback is received from the current user. As discussed above the correction submission service may be architected with a simple interface such as a RESTful Web service supporting efficient asynchronous submissions of pronunciation corrections . Other text to speech applications and or TTS engines may periodically submit batches of pronunciation corrections collected over some period of time.

According to some embodiments the correction submission service is not specific or restricted to any one system or application but supports submissions from a variety of text to speech applications and TTS engines executing on a variety of user computer systems such as GPS navigation devices mobile phones game systems in car control systems and the like. In this way the validated correction hints generated from the collected pronunciation corrections may be based on a large number of users of many varied applications and computing devices providing more data points for analysis and improving the quality of the of the generated correction hints.

The routine proceeds from operation to operation where the correction submission service stores the received pronunciation corrections in the database or other storage system in the speech correction system so that they may be accessed by the correction validation module for analysis. As described above in regard to the correction submission service may determine and include additional data for the pronunciation correction before storing it in the database such as the submitter ID the locale of usage and the like. The correction submission service may store other data along with the pronunciation correction in the database as well such as a name or identifier of the text to speech application and or TTS engine submitting the correction an IP address MAC address or other identifier of the specific user computer system from which the correction was submitted a timestamp indicating when the pronunciation correction was received and the like.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the correction validation module analyzes the submitted pronunciation corrections to generate validated correction hints . As discussed above the correction validation module may run periodically to scan all submitted pronunciation corrections received over a period of time or the correction validation module may be initiated for each pronunciation correction received. According to embodiments some group of the submitted pronunciation corrections are analyzed together as a corpus of data utilizing statistical analysis methods for example to determine those corrections that are useful and or applicable across some locales class of users class of applications and the like versus those that represent personal preferences or isolated corrections. In determining the validated correction hints the correction validation module may look at the number of pronunciation corrections submitted for a particular word phrase the similarities or variations between the suggested pronunciations the differences between the suggested pronunciations and the original pronunciations the submitter ratings for the submitter ID that submitted the corrections whether multiple similar suggested pronunciations have been received from a particular locale of usage or by a particular class of submitter and the like.

For example multiple pronunciation corrections may be received for a particular word phrase with a threshold number of the suggested pronunciations for the word phrase being substantially the same. In this case the correction validation module may determine that a certain confidence level for the suggested pronunciation has been reached and may generate a validated correction hint for the word phrase containing the suggested pronunciation . The threshold number may be a particular count such as 100 pronunciation corrections with substantially the same suggested pronunciations a certain percentage of the overall submitted corrections for the word phrase having substantially the same suggested pronunciation or any other threshold calculation known in the art as determined from the corpus to support a certain confidence level in the suggested pronunciation.

As described above each pronunciation correction may contain a locale of usage for the word phrase from which the correction is being submitted. In another example multiple pronunciation corrections may be received for a word phrase of Ponce de Leon which may represent the name of a park or street in number of locations in the United States. Several pronunciation corrections may be received from locale of usage indicating San Diego Calif. with one suggested pronunciation of the name while several others may be received from Atlanta Ga. with a different pronunciation of the name. If the threshold number of the suggested pronunciations for the word phrase is reached in one or both of the different locales of usage then the correction validation module may generate separate validated correction hints for the word phrase for each of the locales containing the validated suggested pronunciation for that locale. The text to speech applications and or TTS engines may be configured to utilize different validated correction hints based on the current locale of usage in which the user computer system is operating thus using proper local pronunciation of the name Ponce de Leon whether the user computer system is operating in San Diego or Atlanta.

Similarly multiple pronunciation corrections may be received for a word phrase having substantially the same suggested pronunciation across different classes of submitter . The correction validation module may generate separate validated correction hints for the word phrase for each of the classes containing the validated suggested pronunciation for that class of submitter . The user of a user computer system may be able to designate particular classes of submitter in their profile for the text to speech application such as one or more of language regional dialect national origin and the like and the TTS engines may utilize the validated correction hints corresponding to the selected class es of submitter when determining the pronunciation of words and phrases. Thus words and phrases may be pronounced in a manner familiar to that particular user thus improving recognition of the speech produced and increasing confidence of the user in the application or system.

In further embodiments the correction validation module may consider the submitter ratings corresponding to the submitter IDs of the pronunciation corrections in determining the confidence level of the suggested pronunciations for a word phrase . As discussed above the submitter rating for a particular submitter user may be determined automatically by the correction validation module from the quality of the individual user s suggestions e.g. the number of accepted suggested pronunciations a ratio of accepted suggestions to rejected suggestions and the like. Additionally or alternatively administrators of the speech correction system may rank or score individual users in the submitter ratings based on an overall analysis of received suggestions and generated correction hints. The correction validation module may more heavily weight the suggested pronunciations of pronunciation corrections received from a user or system with a high submitter rating in the determination of the threshold number or confidence level for a set of suggested pronunciations of a word phrase when generating the validated correction hints .

Additional validation may be performed by the correction validation module and or administrators of the speech correction system to ensure that a group of pronunciation corrections submitted for a particular word phrase represent actual linguistic or cultural corrections to the pronunciation of the word or phrase and are not politically or otherwise motivated. For example the name of a stadium in a particular city may be changed from its traditional name to a new name to reflect new ownership of the facility. A large number of users of text to speech applications in the locale of the city discontent with the name change may submit pronunciation corrections with a word phrase indicating the new name of the stadium but suggested pronunciations reflecting the old stadium name. Such situations may be identified by comparing the suggested pronunciations with the original pronunciations in the pronunciation corrections and tagging those with substantial differences for further analysis by administrative personnel for example.

In additional embodiments the correction validation module may analyze the differences between the suggested pronunciations and original pronunciations in a set of pronunciation corrections for a particular word phrase a particular locale of usage a particular class of submitter and or the like. The correction validation module may utilize the analysis of the differences between the pronunciations to generate more generalized validated correction hints regarding words and phrases of the same origin locale language dialect and the like in order and to update phonetic rules for particular word origins regional dialects or the like.

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where the generated validated correction hints are made available to the TTS engines and or text to speech applications executing on the user computer systems . In some embodiments access to the validated correction hints may be provided to the TTS engines and or text to speech applications through the correction submission service or some other API exposed by modules executing in the speech correction system . The TTS engines and or text to speech applications may periodically retrieve the validated correction hints or the validated correction hints may be periodically pushed to the TTS engines or applications on the user computer systems over the network s .

The TTS engines and or text to speech applications may store the new phonetic spelling or pronunciation contained in the validated corrections hints in the local pronunciation dictionary or with other locally generated correction hints . For pronunciation corrections regarding a particular locale of usage or class of submitter the TTS engines and or text to speech applications may add entries to the local pronunciation dictionary and or correction hints tagged to be used for words or phrases in the indicated locale or for users in the indicated class. More generalized validated correction hints regarding words and phrases of the same origin locale language dialect and the like may also be stored in the correction hints to be used to supplement or override the phonetic rules for word or phrases for the indicated locales regional dialects or the like. Alternatively or additionally developers of the TTS engines and or text to speech applications may utilize the validated correction hints to package updates to the pronunciation dictionary and or phonetic rules for the applications which are deployed to the user computer systems through an independent channel. From operation the routine ends.

The computer architecture shown in includes one or more central processing units CPUs . The CPUs may be standard processors that perform the arithmetic and logical operations necessary for the operation of the computer . The CPUs perform the necessary operations by transitioning from one discrete physical state to the next through the manipulation of switching elements that differentiate between and change these states. Switching elements may generally include electronic circuits that maintain one of two binary states such as flip flops and electronic circuits that provide an output state based on the logical combination of the states of one or more other switching elements such as logic gates. These basic switching elements may be combined to create more complex logic circuits including registers adders subtractors arithmetic logic units floating point units and other logic elements.

The computer architecture further includes a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the CPUs . A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup is stored in the ROM . The computer also includes a mass storage device for storing an operating system application programs and other program modules which are described in greater detail herein.

The mass storage device is connected to the CPUs through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device provides non volatile storage for the computer . The computer may store information on the mass storage device by transforming the physical state of the device to reflect the information being stored. The specific transformation of physical state may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the mass storage device whether the mass storage device is characterized as primary or secondary storage and the like.

For example the computer may store information to the mass storage device by issuing instructions to the mass storage controller to alter the magnetic characteristics of a particular location within a magnetic disk drive the reflective or refractive characteristics of a particular location in an optical storage device or the electrical characteristics of a particular capacitor transistor or other discrete component in a solid state storage device. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the present description. The computer may further read information from the mass storage device by detecting the physical states or characteristics of one or more particular locations within the mass storage device.

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage device and RAM of the computer including an operating system suitable for controlling the operation of a computer. The mass storage device and RAM may also store one or more program modules. In particular the mass storage device and the RAM may store the correction submission service or the correction validation module which were described in detail above in regard to . The mass storage device and the RAM may also store other types of program modules or data.

In addition to the mass storage device described above the computer may have access to other computer readable media to store and retrieve information such as program modules data structures or other data. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media may be any available media that can be accessed by the computer including computer readable storage media and communications media. Communications media includes transitory signals. Computer readable storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for the storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by the computer .

The computer readable storage medium may be encoded with computer executable instructions that when loaded into the computer may transform the computer system from a general purpose computing system into a special purpose computer capable of implementing the embodiments described herein. The computer executable instructions may be encoded on the computer readable storage medium by altering the electrical optical magnetic or other physical characteristics of particular locations within the media. These computer executable instructions transform the computer by specifying how the CPUs transition between states as described above. According to one embodiment the computer may have access to computer readable storage media storing computer executable instructions that when executed by the computer perform the routine for providing validated text to speech correction hints from aggregated pronunciation corrections received from text to speech applications described above in regard to .

According to various embodiments the computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computing devices and computer systems through one or more networks such as a LAN a WAN the Internet or a network of any topology known in the art. The computer may connect to the network s through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems.

The computer may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from one or more input devices including a keyboard a mouse a touchpad a touch sensitive display an electronic stylus a microphone or other type of input device. Similarly the input output controller may provide output to an output device such as a computer monitor a flat panel display a digital projector a printer a plotter a speaker or other type of output device. It will be appreciated that the computer may not include all of the components shown in may include other components that are not explicitly shown in or may utilize an architecture completely different than that shown in .

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that technologies for providing validated text to speech correction hints from aggregated pronunciation corrections received from text to speech applications are provided herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological acts and computer readable storage media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

