---

title: Methods and compositions to treat myocardial conditions
abstract: Methods, devices, kits and compositions to treat a myocardial infarction. In one embodiment, the method includes the prevention of remodeling of the infarct zone of the ventricle. In other embodiments, the method includes the introduction of structurally reinforcing agents. In other embodiments, agents are introduced into a ventricle to increase compliance of the ventricle. In an alternative embodiment, the prevention of remodeling includes the prevention of thinning of the ventricular infarct zone. In another embodiment, the prevention of remodeling and thinning of the infarct zone involves the cross-linking of collagen and prevention of collagen slipping. In other embodiments, the structurally reinforcing agent may be accompanied by other therapeutic agents. These agents may include but are not limited to pro-fibroblastic and angiogenic agents.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08747385&OS=08747385&RS=08747385
owner: Abbott Cardiovascular Systems Inc.
number: 08747385
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120510
---
This application is a divisional of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 632 612 filed Dec. 7 2009 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 414 767 filed Apr. 15 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 641 643 and incorporated herein by reference.

The treatment of myocardial infarction and more particularly in one embodiment the reinforcement of the infarct regional wall of a heart chamber and or the inhibition the thinning of the infarct regional wall of a heart chamber.

Ischemic heart disease typically results from an imbalance between the myocardial blood flow and the metabolic demand of the myocardium. Progressive atherosclerosis with increasing occlusion of coronary arteries leads to a reduction in coronary blood flow. Blood flow can be further decreased by additional events such as changes in circulation that lead to hypoperfusion vasospasm or thrombosis.

Myocardial infarction accounts for approximately 20 of all deaths. It is a major cause of sudden death in adults.

Myocardial Infarction MI is one form of heart disease that often results from the sudden lack of supply of oxygen and other nutrients. The lack of blood supply is a result of closure of the coronary artery that nourishes the particular part of the heart muscle. The cause of this event is generally caused by arteriosclerosis hardening of the arteries in coronary vessels.

Formerly it was believed that an MI was caused from a slow procession of closure from for example 95 then to 100 but an MI can also be a result of minor blockages where for example there is a rupture of the cholesterol plaque resulting in blood clotting within the artery. Thus the flow of blood is blocked and downstream cellular damage occurs. This damage can cause irregular rhythms that can be fatal even though the remaining muscle is strong enough to pump a sufficient amount of blood. As a result of this insult to the heart tissue scar tissue tends to naturally form.

Even though relatively effective systemic drugs exist to treat MI such as ACE inhibitors and Beta blockers a significant portion of the population that experiences a major MI ultimately develop heart failure. An important component in the progression to heart failure is remodeling of the heart due to mechanical forces resulting in uneven stress and strain distribution in the left ventricle. Once an MI occurs remodeling of the heart begins. The principle components of the remodeling event include myocyte death edema and inflammation followed by fibroblast infiltration and collagen deposition and finally scar formation. The principle component of the scar is collagen. Since mature myocytes of an adult are not regenerated the infarct region experiences significant thinning Myocyte loss is the major etiologic factor of wall thinning and chamber dialation that may ultimately lead to progression of cardiac myopathy. Myocyte death can and does occur. In other areas remote regions experience hypertrophy thickening resulting in an overall enlargement of the left ventricle. This is the end result of the remodeling cascade. These changes in the heart result in changes in the patient s lifestyle and their ability to walk and to exercise. These changes also correlate with physiological changes that result in increase in blood pressure and worsening systolic and diastolic performance.

Significant atherosclerotic build up can reduce the arterial lumen and reduce blood flow. Build up is capable of rupturing resulting in a total or partial occlusion of the artery. Complete coronary occlusion will lead to an acute MI. Thus the T cells platelets fibrin and multiple other factors and cells are blocked from progression through the blood stream and the result is an inadequate vascular supply as seen. This leads to myocyte death. Myocyte death in addition to fibrosis in the form of collagen deposition can lead to a compromised left ventricle and overload on the remaining myocytes. This process is further complicated by compensation of the remaining myocytes that hypertrophy enlarge . This can cause the left ventricle to enlarge and if the cycle continues can result in eventual heart failure.

The morphological appearance of the infracted heart tissue post M.I. can vary. A transmural infarct involves the entire thickness of the left ventricular wall from the endocardium to the epicardium. It may extend into the anterior free wall and the posterior free wall. This damage may include extensions into the right ventricular wall. A subendocardial infarct may have multiple focal regions and necrosis area may be confined to the inner one third to one half of the left ventricular wall. The evolutionary changes in a subendocardial infarct do not evolve the same as in a transmural MI.

Over time post MI morphological changes occur. The gross morphological changes that occur over approximately a 7 week period are pallor of the myocardium that leads to some hyperemia then a yellowing starts to occur central to the damaged region. At approximately 15 days the area is mostly yellow with soft vascular margins. This area eventually turns white from fibrosis. On a microscopic level the initial examination reveals wavy myocardial fibers. Coagulation and necrosis with loss of cross striations occur followed by contraction bands edema hemorrhage and neutrophilic infiltrate. Within 24 72 hours there is total loss of nuclei and striations and heavy neutrophilic infiltrate. Then macrophage and mononuclear infiltration begin resulting in a fibrovascular response. Once this fibrovascular response occurs then prominent granulation of the tissue follows. This ultimately leads to fibrosis and a scar is formed by about 7 weeks post MI.

After an MI has occurred three layers of tissue can be distinguished. The infarct region has 1 the region of significant necrosis apoptosis tissue 2 the border zone that consists of a large concentration of apoptotic and necrotic tissue as well as viable tissue and 3 the unaffected region that consists of mainly viable tissue. In the border zone the cells exist in an oxygen deprived state due to the damage from the MI.

A complication of an MI is an aneurysm that looks like a bulge in the left ventricular wall. The aneurysm is made up of non functional tissue that is unable to contract. Therefore the ejection and stroke volume of the heart are reduced. Additionally parts of this mass can form a mural thrombus that can break off and embolize to the systemic circulation.

Compositions and methods to treat myocardial infarction of the ventricle are described. In one embodiment a composition is described that is capable of reinforcing the ventricular wall and may be capable of releasing an agent to recruit the natural cell population in order to stabilize the region. In another embodiment a method is described to increase the compliance of a ventricle. A treatment agent is advanced through a delivery device to the infarct zone. In some embodiments a delivery device is described to accurately deliver one or more treatment agents. In some embodiments the treatment agent is delivered via a multiple of small volumes to the region. These delivery methods may use imaging of the ventricular wall to guide the deposition of the treatment agent to the site of the infarct zone such as deposition of the gel forming agents. In other embodiments treatment agents may induce angiogenesis.

In another embodiment a method includes the retention of and or recruitment of fibroblast cells to the infarct zone. In other embodiments a method includes an early time post MI recruitment and subsequent retention of fibroblast cells in the infarct zone. Therapeutic agents are delivered to the infarct zone such as growth factors and pro fibroblastic agents to recruit surrounding fibroblasts to the area. These agents may be delivered by microparticles harboring these therapeutic agents or direct delivery of the therapeutic agents to the infarct region. The naturally occurring fibroblasts that infiltrate the infarct region may be stimulated to proliferate in addition to recruiting new fibroblasts to the region. In other embodiments these fibroblasts may be encouraged to convert from a non contractile cell to a muscular cell by delivering growth factors to the infarct region such as transforming growth factor 1. This retention of fibroblasts in the infarct zone is suitable for reinforcing the region and preventing the thinning process of the ventricular wall.

Other embodiments directed to the prevention of thinning of the infarct region of the ventricle wall are included. Treatment agents that are capable of cross linking the existing collagen in the infarct region are described. The cross linked collagen would form a structurally reinforcing wall in the infarct region to bulk up the infarct zone and reduce the effects of thinning.

In another embodiment a method includes multi component treatments of the infarct zone. One multi component method includes the formation of a scaffold to facilitate the attachment of fibroblasts and to deliver growth factors and other treatment agents. In addition the in growth of new capillaries is encouraged by the sustained release of angiogenic factors by the microparticles that form the scaffold. The treatment agents may be released for up to two months period. This technique would offer maximum benefit for the regeneration of viable tissue.

In another embodiment a different multi component treatment of the infarct zone introduces a scaffold system that provides a matrix to facilitate cell growth and inhibit the remodeling event post MI. In addition the treatment includes a perfluorinated compound that enhances the re oxygenation of the tissue.

In another embodiment the blood that rapidly infiltrates the infarct region may be clotted. The clotting of the blood by various agents for example fibrin glue would result in a mass. This clot would also provide reinforcement of the wall and prevention of the thinning process. The intervention of the thinning process by clotting must occur within four hours of the MI but would provide early structural reinforcement of the infarct zone.

In another embodiment a solution is delivered to a site in a ventricle. The solution contains an agent s capable of precipitating at a region for reinforcement of that region. Another solution contains one or more agents that are delivered to a region in a ventricle and remain in that region while the supporting solution dissipates into surrounding tissue.

In one embodiment the treatments proposed may occur at any time after an infarction. In another embodiment the treatments proposed may occur within seven weeks of an MI event or prior to myocyte replacement . In another embodiment the treatments proposed may occur within two weeks of an MI event.

In a further embodiment a kit is disclosed. One example of such a kit is a kit including an injectable composition having the property of forming a gel once introduced to the treatment area. The gel may be formed due to one or more environmental changes or alternatively a response to one or more internal components.

 a container A receptacle such as a carton can vial tube bottle or jar in which material is held or carried.

 cardiomyocyte like a cell s capable of converting to a cardiomyocyte s or a cell or components capable of functioning like a cardiomyocyte.

 polymer forming any agent or agents capable of forming a gelatinous material either alone or in combination.

 delivery device an apparatus or system capable of depositing a solution powder concentrate a single reagent and or multiple reagents.

 pro fibroblastic agent one or more compounds capable of retaining inducing proliferation of and or recruiting fibroblasts cells.

 compliance The ability of a blood vessel or a cardiac chamber to change its volume in response to changes in pressure has important physiological implications. In physical terms the relationship between a change in volume D V and a change in pressure D P is termed compliance C where C DeltaV Delta P. Compliance therefore is related to the ease by which a given change in pressure causes a change in volume. In biological tissues the relationship between DV and DP is not linear. Compliance is the slope of the line relating volume and pressure that decreases at higher volumes and pressures. Another way to view this is that the stiffness of the chamber or vessel wall increases at higher volumes and pressures. Changes in compliance have important physiological effects in cardiac chambers and blood vessels.

In the following section several embodiments of for example processes compositions devices and methods are described in order to thoroughly detail various embodiments. It will be obvious though to one skilled in the art that practicing the various embodiments does not require the employment of all or even some of the specific details outlined herein. In some cases well known methods or components have not been included in the description in order to prevent unnecessarily masking various embodiments.

Methods and compositions to treat a ventricle after a myocardial infarction MI are disclosed. In one embodiment the infarct region or the area of the ventricle containing the infarct injury may be treated alone or in combination with other treatments. One benefit to such treatment is that the region of injury may be targeted with little or no affect on the outlying healthy heart tissue. In addition another benefit of such treatment is that the treatment may prevent the loss of functionality of a region of injury due to the normal remodeling and scar forming procedure to mend an infarct region. Another benefit may be that the treatment may increase the compliance of the ventricle. Still another benefit is the reduction in thinning of a ventricular wall of an infarct zone. In the following description structural reinforcement of the infarct region of the ventricle is described. Since most myocardial infarctions occur in the left ventricle most descriptions will be directed towards left ventricle repair. But it is appreciated that treatment of the right ventricle may be achieved in a similar manner.

If the remodeling of the infarct region could be modified prior to scar formation and ultimate thinning of the ventricular wall functional tissue may be rescued. The inhibition of scar formation and guided regeneration of viable cells would lead to increased wall strength and decreased collagen deposition instead of thinning and hypertrophied myocytes. Further decreasing the probability of wall thinning and fortifying the influx of structural components such as fibroblasts might be beneficial and preferred over the current treatment of an MI namely continual exposure to systemic drugs to treat the symptoms and not the disease. Another benefit may be that any one of the treatments herein may result in an increase in compliance of the ventricle. Thus any one or more combinations of these treatments may provide a potential for healing the infarct region and prevention of further complications.

In other embodiments a kit e.g. a pre manufactured package is disclosed. A suitable kit includes at least one agent and a lumen to house the agent. The agent has a property that may increase the modulus tensile strength stiffness of elasticity of the infarct region increase compliance of the ventricle and or prevent or reduce thinning caused by remodeling. The kit may be suitable in one example in the methods described.

In each of the methods described herein it is appreciated that specific areas of the heart may be targeted for application of any of the incorporated methods thus there are techniques previously described that may be used for targeting the infarct region. One example of targeting a specific region such as an infarct zone uses a technique known as mapping the heart U.S. Pat. No. 6 447 504 . The data are acquired by using one or more catheters that are advanced into the heart. These catheters usually have electrical and location sensors in their distal tips. Some of the catheters have multiple electrodes on a three dimensional structure and others have multiple electrodes distributed over a surface area. One example of the later catheter may be a sensor electrode distributed on a series of circumferences of the distal end portion lying in planes spaced from each other. These techniques provide methods to characterize the condition of the heart in some situations using electrical potentials in the heart tissue as well as using electromechanical mapping ultrasonic mapping to map the viable and the non viable regions of the heart for example the left ventricle and the infarct zone. In addition the ultrasound waves may be used to determine the thickness of the heart tissue in the vicinity of the probe for example sensing the characteristic of the heart tissue by analyzing the ultrasound signals to determine the depth of the channels. Another method known as viability mapping for example Spect MRI PET may also be used. Viability mapping may be used to identify areas of the heart that are ischemic but still viable as well as area that have lost their viability due to infarction. These maps are based on electrophysiological data that indicate the flow of activation signals through the heart tissue. In addition the data may be biomedical and or mechanical data for example variations in the thickness of the heart wall between systolic and diastolic stages of the heart cycle. The data that is used to analyze the heart by mapping may also be a combination of electrophysiological and biomedical data in order to more accurately locate and target the infarct region. In absence of viability mapping devices it is appreciated that the location of the infarction may be also assessed through LV angiography or echo where location of the akinetic or hypokinetic region may be identified.

Any one or more catheters may be used to deliver the any one or multiple components of the embodiments to the infarct region area. Several catheters have been designed in order to precisely deliver agents to a damaged region within the heart for example an infarct region. Several of these catheters have been described U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 102 926 6 120 520 6 251 104 6 309 370 6 432 119 6 485 481 . The delivery device may include an apparatus for intracardiac drug administration including a sensor for positioning within the heart a delivery device to administer the desired agent and amount at the site of the position sensor. The apparatus may include for example a catheter body capable of traversing a blood vessel and a dilatable balloon assembly coupled to the catheter body comprising a balloon having a proximal wall. A needle may be disposed within the catheter body and includes a lumen having dimensions suitable for a needle to be advanced there through. The needle body includes an end coupled to the proximal wall of the balloon. The apparatus also includes an imaging body disposed within the catheter body and including a lumen having a dimension suitable for a portion of an imaging device to be advanced there through. The apparatus may further include a portion of an imaging device disposed within the imaging body adapted to generate imaging signal of the infarct region within the ventricle. The apparatus may be suitable for accurately introducing a treatment agent at a desired treatment site.

In another embodiment a needle catheter used to deliver the agent to the ventricle for example the infarct region may be configured to include a feedback sensor for mapping the penetration depth and location of the needle insertion. The use of a feedback sensor provides the advantage of accurately targeting the injection location. Depending on the type of agent administered the target location for delivering the agent may vary. For example one agent may require multiple small injections within an infarct region where no two injections penetrate the same site.

In other embodiments the catheter assembly may include a maneuverable instrument. This catheter assembly includes a flexible assembly. The catheter assembly may be deflectable and includes a first catheter a second catheter and a third catheter. The second catheter fits coaxially within the first catheter. At least one of the first catheter and the second catheter include a deflectable portion to allow deflection of that catheter from a first position to a second position and the other of the first catheter and second catheter includes a portion which is preshaped e.g. an angled portion formed by two segments of the angled portion . The third catheter has a sheath and a medical instrument positioned within the sheath. The third catheter fits coaxially within the second catheter. In another embodiment a stabilizer such as a donut shaped balloon is coupled to a distal portion of the third catheter. Each catheter is free to move longitudinally and radially relative to the other catheters. The catheter assembly may be used but not limited to the local delivery of bioagents such as cells used for cell therapy one or more growth factors for fibroblast retention or vectors containing genes for gene therapy to the left ventricle. In one embodiment the catheter assembly described may be used in delivering cell therapy for heart failure or to treat one or more portions of the heart that are ischemic. The catheter assembly uses coaxially telescoping catheters at least one or more being deflectable to position a medical instrument at different target locations within a body organ such as the left ventricle. The catheter assembly may be flexible enough to bend according to the contours of the body organ. The catheter assembly may be flexible in that the catheter assembly may achieve a set angle according to what the medical procedure requires. The catheter assembly will not only allow some flexibility in angle changes the catheter assembly moves in a three coordinate system allowing an operator greater control over the catheter assembly s movement portion of the second catheter allowing for the distal tip of the third catheter to be selectively and controllably placed at a multitude of positions. It will be appreciated that the deflectable portion may alternatively be on the second catheter and the preshaped portion may be on the first catheter.

In a further embodiment an apparatus is disclosed. In one embodiment the apparatus includes a first annular member having a first lumen disposed about a length of the first annular member and a second annular member coupled to the first annular member having a second lumen disposed about a length of the second annular member wherein collectively the first annular member and the second annular member have a diameter suitable for placement at a treatment site within a mammalian body. Representatively distal ends of the first annular member and the second annular member are positioned with respect to one another to allow a combining of treatment agents introduced through each of the first annular member and the second annular member to allow a combining of treatment agents at the treatment site. Such an apparatus is particularly suitable for delivering a multi component gel material e.g. individual components through respective annular members that forms a bioerodible gel within an infarct region of a ventricle .

In the embodiments described herein a substance delivery device and a method for delivering a substance are disclosed. The delivery device and method described are particularly suitable but not limited to local drug delivery in which a treatment agent composition possibly including multiple treatment agents and or a sustained release composition is introduced via needle delivery to a treatment site within a mammalian host. A kit of a treatment agent composition is also described. One suitable application for a delivery device is that of a catheter device including a needle delivery system. Suitable therapies include but are not limited to delivery of drugs for the treatment of arterial restenosis therapeutic angiogenesis or cancer treatment drugs agents.

In other embodiments larger doses of treatment agent may be considered for example about 2 mls to about 250 mls that may require any one or more of the delivery devices such as intra venous retro infusion intra arterial infusion and needle catheter systems Invigor as well as subxyphoid approaches.

Various apparati devices and methods described herein can be used as a stand alone injection needle catheter during a surgical procedure such as an open heart surgery e.g. Coronary Bypass Graft CABG procedure in which areas of the heart may be treated with for example growth factors for affecting therapeutic angiogenesis or incorporated into a catheter based system to access locations that are commonly used in percutaneous translumena. 1 coronary artery PTCA procedures. The apparati devices and methods may similarly be used in other surgical procedures such as cancer related procedures e.g. brain abdomen or colon cancer procedures or surgeries . Additionally various apparati devices and methods described herein can be used in conjunction with various catheter related or endoscopy procedures that generally require minimal invasiveness to deliver a specific drug or growth factor into tissue. Examples of such procedures include but are not limited to orthoscopic surgery for joints e.g. knee laparoscopic surgery for the abdomen and thoracoscopic procedures related to chest injuries or treatments.

One concern of introducing any treatment agent composition whether adjacent a blood vessel to affect therapeutic angiogenesis adjacent to a tumor to inhibit tumor growth or to induce or stimulate collagen growth in orthoscopic procedures is that the composition remain at least partially at the treatment site for a desired treatment duration or a portion of the treatment duration . In this manner an accurate dosage may be placed at a treatment site with reduced concern that the treatment agent will disperse perhaps with serious consequences. In one embodiment a composition and technique for retaining a treatment agent at a treatment site injection site is described. In one embodiment a treatment agent and a bioerodible gel or non bioerodible gel or particle may be introduced at a treat site e.g. an injection site . The gel or particle s may be introduced prior to after or simultaneously with the treatment agent. In one preferred embodiment the gel or particle s acts to retain the treatment agent at the treatment site by representatively sealing the treatment site or sealing the treatment agent at the treatment site. The use of a gel or particle s with a treatment agent can reduce the amount of treatment agent backflow from the injection site as well as reduce the load requirement of the treatment agent at the treatment site. For example a bioerodible product such as a gel or particle may decrease the local pressure thereby further resulting in backflow reduction. A non bioerodible product may also decrease the local pressure to reduce the backflow in a more permanent fashion and at the same time may also lead to an increase in compliance.

Using the above mentioned techniques an imaging modality may be added such as a contrast assisted fluorescent scope that permits a cardiologist to observe the placement of the catheter tip or other instrument within the heart chamber. The contrast assisted fluoroscopy utilizes a contrast agent that may be injected into heart chamber and then the area viewed under examination by a scope thus the topography of the region is more easily observed and may be more easily treated U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 385 476 and 6 368 285 . Suitable imaging techniques include but are not limited to ultrasonic imaging optical imaging and magnetic resonance imaging for example Echo ECG SPECT MRI Angiogram. Therefore mapping of the heart is one technique that may be used in combination with the techniques proposed in the following embodiments. In one embodiment an echo angiograph may be performed to confirm the occurrence and the location of the infarct region. In another embodiment a Cat Scan may be performed to confirm an MI has occurred and the location of the infarct region. In another embodiment an EKG may be performed to identify the occurrence and location of an infarct.

In another embodiment a method may include introducing a treatment agent in a sustained release composition. The preferred period for sustained release of one or more agents is for a period of one to twelve weeks preferably two to eight weeks. Methods for local delivery of sustained release agents include but are not limited to percutaneous devices for example intraventricular coronary or intravascular coronary and peripheral devices.

In one embodiment basic fibroblast growth factor may be introduced to the infarct region by at least one of the methods described. In one embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 1 ml. In another embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 300 l. In another embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 100 l. In a preferred embodiment the any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 50 l.

In alternate embodiments the treatment volume may be larger e.g. intravenous pressure perfusion IV route . These volumes may range from about 2 mls to about 250 mls. Alternatively these volumes may range from about 2 mls to about 100 mls. In other embodiments these volumes may range from about 2 mls to about 30 mls.

In one embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 1 ml. In another embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 300 l. In another embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 100 l. In a preferred embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to about 50 l.

One embodiment of a composition suitable for the described method includes the use of a bioerodible microparticle harboring one or more of the aforementioned growth factors. The bioerodible microparticle may consist of a bioerodible polymer such as poly lactide co glycolide . The composition of the bioerodible polymer is controlled to release the growth factor over a period of 1 2 weeks. It was previously demonstrated that biodegradable microparticles for example poly lactide co glycolide were capable of controlled release of an oligonucleotide. These microparticles were prepared by the multiple emulsion solvent evaporation technique. In order to increase the uptake of the oligonucleotide into the microparticles it was accompanied by polyethylenimine PEI . The PEI also tended to make the microparticles more porous thus facilitating the delivery of the oligonucleotide out of the particles. See De Rosa et al. Biodegradable microparticles for the controlled delivery of oligonucleotides Int. J Pharm 2002 Aug. 21 242 1 2 225 . In one preferred embodiment of a composition the bioerodible microparticle may be a PLGA polymer 50 50 with carboxylic acid end groups. PLGA is a base polymer often used for controlled release of drugs and medical implant materials i.e. anti cancer drugs such as anti prostate cancer agents . Two common delivery forms for controlled release include a microcapsule and a microparticle e.g. a microsphere . The polymer and the agent are combined and usually heated to form the microparticle prior to delivery to the site of interest Mitsui Chemicals Inc . As the microparticles erode a porous network of the microparticle composition is formed in the infarct region resulting in a matrix with a controlled pore size . As the porous network is formed at least one angiogenic and or pro fibroblastic factor may be released encouraging the in growth of new capillaries. One embodiment the bioerodible polymer harbors the growth factor TGF 1. In one embodiment the PLGA polymer 50 50 with carboxylic acid end groups harbors TGF 1 for slow release. It is preferred that each microparticle may release at least 20 percent of its contents and more preferably around 90 percent of its contents. In one embodiment the microparticle harboring at least one angiogenic and or pro fibroblastic agent will degrade slowly over time releasing the factor or release the factor immediately upon contact with the infarct area in order to rapidly recruit fibroblasts to the site. In another embodiment the microparticles may be a combination of controlled release microparticles and immediate release microparticles. A preferred rate of deposition of the delivered factor will vary depending on the condition of the subject undergoing treatment.

Another embodiment of a composition suitable for the described method includes the use of non bioerodible microparticles that may harbor one or more of the aforementioned growth factors. The growth factors may be released from the microparticle by controlled release or rapid release. The microparticles may be placed directly in the infarct region. By directly placing the particles in the infarct they may also provide bulk for the region for reinforcement. The non bioerodible microparticle may consist of a non bioerodible polymer such as an acrylic based microsphere for example a tris acryl microsphere provided by Biosphere Medical . In one embodiment non bioerodible microparticles may be used alone or in combination with an agent to increase compliance of a ventricle. In another embodiment non bioerodible microparticles may be used alone or in combination with an agent to recruit fibroblasts and or stimulate fibroblast proliferation. In addition non bioerodible microparticles may be used to increase compliance and recruit fibroblasts to an infarct region of a ventricle.

In one embodiment the treatment agent compositions suitable for reinforcement of the infarct zone are rendered resistant to phagocytosis by inhibiting opsonin protein absorption to the composition of the particles. In this regard treatment agent compositions including sustained release carriers include particles having an average diameter up to about 10 microns are considered. In other situations the particle size may range from about 1 mm to about 200 mm. The larger size particles may be considered in certain cases to avoid macrophage frustration and to avoid chronic inflammation in the treatment site. When needed the particle size of up to 200 mm may be considered and may be introduced via an intraventricular catheter or retrograde venous catheter for any of the embodiments herein to avoid chronic inflammation due to macrophage influx into the treatment site.

One method of inhibiting opsonization and subsequent rapid phagocytosis of treatment agents is to form a composition comprising a treatment agent disposed with a carrier for example a sustained release carrier and to coat the carrier with an opsonin inhibitor. One suitable opsonin inhibitor includes polyethylene glycol PEG that creates a brush like steric barrier to opsonization. PEG may alternatively be blended into the polymer constituting the carrier or incorporated into the molecular architecture of the polymer constituting the carrier as a copolymer to render the carrier resistant to phagocytosis. Examples of preparing the opsonin inhibited microparticles include the following.

For the encapsulation polymers a blend of a polyalkylene glycol such as polyethylene glycol PEG polypropylene 1 2 glycol or polypropylene 1 3 glycol is co dissolved with an encapsulating polymer in a common organic solvent during the carrier forming process. The percentage of PEG in the PEG encapsulating polymer blend is between five percent and 60 percent by weight. Other hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinyl pyrolidone polyvinyl alcohol or polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene copolymers can be used in place of polyalkylene glycols although polyalkylene glycols and more specifically polyethylene glycol is generally preferred.

Alternatively a diblock or triblock copolymer of an encapsulating polymer such as poly L lactide poly D L lactide or poly lactide co glycolide with a polyalkylene glycol may be prepared. Diblocks can be prepared by i reacting the encapsulating polymer with a monomethoxy polyakylene glycol such as PEG with one protected hydroxyl group and one group capable of reacting with the encapsulating polymer ii by polymerizing the encapsulating polymer on to the monomethoxy polyalkylene glycol such as PEG with one protected group and one group capable of reacting with the encapsulating polymer or iii by reacting the encapsulating polymer with a polyalkylene glycol such as PEG with amino functional termination. Triblocks can be prepared as described above using branched polyalkylene glycols with protection of groups that are not to react. Opsonization resistant carriers microparticles nanoparticles can also be prepared using the techniques described above to form sustained release carriers microparticles nanoparticles with these copolymers.

A second way to inhibit opsonization is the biomimetic approach. For example the external region of cell membrane known as the glycocalyx is dominated by glycoslylated molecules that prevent non specific adhesion of other molecules and cells. Surfactant polymers consisting of a flexible poly vinyl amine backbone randomly dextran and alkanoyl hexanoyl or lauroyl side chains which constrain the polymer backbone to lie parallel to the substrate. Hydrated dextran side chains protrude into the aqueous phase creating a glycocalyx like monolayer coating that suppresses plasma protein deposition on the foreign body surface. To mimic glycocalyx glycocalyx like molecules can be coated on the carriers e.g. nanoparticles or microparticles or blended into a polymer constituting the carrier to render the treatment agent resistant to phagocytosis. An alternate biomimetic approach is to coat the carrier with or blend in phosphorylcholine a synthetic mimetic of phosphatidylcholine into the polymer constituting the carrier.

For catheter delivery a carrier comprising a treatment agent e.g. the composition in the form of a nanoparticle or microparticle may be suspended in a fluid for delivery through the needle at a concentration of about one percent to about 20 percent weight by volume. In one embodiment the loading of the treatment agent in a carrier is about 0.5 percent to about 30 percent by weight of the composition. Co encapsulated with protein or small molecule treatment agents could be stabilizers that prolong the biological half life of the treatment agent in the carrier upon injection into tissue. Stabilizers may also be added to impart stability to the treatment agent during encapsulation. Hydrophilic polymers such as PEG or biomimetic brush like dextran structures or phosphorylcholine are either coated on the surface or the carrier grafted on the surface of the carrier blended into the polymer constituting the carrier or incorporated into the molecular architecture of the polymer constituting the carrier so the carrier is resistant to phagocytosis upon injection into the target tissue location.

Any one or more catheters may be used to deliver the any one or multiple components of the embodiments to the infarct region area. Several catheters have been designed in order to precisely deliver agents to a damaged region within the heart for example an infarct region. Several of these catheters have been described U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 309 370 6 432 119 6 485 481 . The delivery device may include an apparatus for intracardiac drug administration including a sensor for positioning within the heart a delivery device to administer the desired agent and amount at the site of the position sensor.

After an MI the infarct tissue as well as the border zone and the remote zone begin to remodel. The scar tissue forms in the infarct region as the granulation is replaced with collagen causing the scar to thin out and stretch. The perfusion in this region is typically 10 of the healthy zone decreasing the number of active capillaries. Increasing the number of capillaries may lead to an increase in compliance of the ventricle due to filling up with blood. Other benefits of increasing blood flow to the infracted region is to provide a route for circulating stem cells to seed and proliferate in the infarct region. Angiogenesis may also lead to increased oxygenation for the surviving cellular islets within the infarct region or to prime the infract region for subsequent cell transplantation for myocardial regeneration. In the border zone surviving cells would also benefit from an increase in blood supply through an angiogenesis process. In the remote zone where cardiac cells tend to hypertrophy and become surrounded with some interstitial fibrosis the ability of cells to receive oxygen and therefore function to full capacity are also compromised thus angiogenesis would be beneficial in these regions as well. In one embodiment angiogenesis will be stimulated in any region of the heart infarct border or remote is through delivery of angiogenesis stimulating factors. Examples of these factors include but are not limited to isoforms of VEGF e.g. VEGF121 FGF e.g. b FGF Del 1 HIF 1 alpha hypoxia inducing factor PR39 MCP 1 monocyte chemotractant protein Nicotine PDGF platelet derived growth factor IGF Insulin Growth Factor TGF alpha Transforming Growth Factor HGF Hepatocyte growth factor estrogens Follistatin Proliferin Prostaglandin E1 E2 TNF alpha tumor necrosis factor II 8 Interleukin 8 Hemotopoietic growth factors erythropoietin G CSF granulocyte colony stimulating factors PD ECGF platelet derived endothelial growth factor Angogenin. In other embodiments these factors may be in provided in a sustained release formulation as independent factor or in combination with other factors or appropriate gene vectors with any of the gel or microparticle components described in this application.

The microparticles may be prepared as microparticles harboring an angiogenic and or pro fibroblastic agent. On the other hand the microparticles may be prepared and then the angiogenic and or pro fibroblastic agent introduced into the microparticle for example by diffusion prior to introduction to the infarct region. In the later example the microparticles might also be coated with the factor and upon introduction to the infarct region the factor immediately recruits fibroblasts to the area. Additionally the microparticle factor composition might consist of any combination of the above mentioned treatments. In other embodiments it may be necessary to add at least one pharmaceutically acceptable inhibitor to the microparticles that prevents decomposition of the angiogenic or pro fibroblastic agent.

The dimensions of the infarct zone may determine the size range of the microparticles and the number of microparticles introduced to the infarct region. This will insure that the optimum post hydrated microparticle mass is achieved. An embodiment relates to microparticles that are about 200 microns or less in diameter. In another embodiment the microparticles may be about 20 microns or less in diameter. In a preferred embodiment the particle size may be about 5 10 microns in diameter. Particles of about 20 microns or less may also include an opsonization inhibitor previously discussed . The swellable microparticles may be a range of sizes introduced to the infarct region. In one embodiment the swellable non biological material may be a hydrogel microsphere material. These microparticles are available commercially A.P. Pharma or BioSphere Medical . These microparticles are resistant to non specific absorption and are bio stable.

In other embodiments hydrogels may be used as a treatment for a myocardial infarction. Examples of hydrogel materials are high molecular weight polyacrylamide or highmolecular weight polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP . Typically the monomer is supplied in these products containing di functional monomers such as di vinyl benzene ethylene glycol dimethylacrylate or bis acrylamide acetate resulting in the formation of a cross linked network resistant to dissolution in an aqueous environment or to stimulate controlled magnitude angiogenic response. These components may be used to generate microspheres. Alternatively the di functional polymers may be used to synthesize a hydrogel microsphere.

In one embodiment of the invention the first component of a biosynthetic polymeric gel may be acrylamidomethyl cellulose acetate propionate and the second component may be a dithiol functional polyethylene glycol polymer such as sold by Shearwater Polymers . In another embodiment the first component of a biosynthetic polymeric gel may be acrylamidomethyl cellulose acetate proprionate and the second component may be a reduced peptide sequence. In a further embodiment the reduced peptide sequence could be biologically derived such as the amino acid sequence glycine cysteine tyrosine lysine asparagine arginine aspartic acid cysteine glycine. A dual bore needle system may deliver both components separately one at a time or simultaneously to an infarct zone. The thiol group s of the thiol containing component may undergo nucleophillic addition to the acrylamide functional group of the first component. This forms the elastomeric structurally reinforcing gel.

In other embodiments the delivery of a nonbiologic or synthetic gel may be combined with angiogenic and or fibroblast recruiting agents utilizing microparticles capable of releasing the agents at a rate optimal for fibroblast retention and migration in the infarct region.

In one embodiment tropoelastin suspended in a solution such as saline is introduced to the infarct region for structural reinforcement of the ventricular wall. Another embodiment includes the introduction of tropoelastin suspended in saline in the presence of copper ions. Another embodiment includes the introduction of tropoelastin in the presence of a converting enzyme. Another embodiment includes the introduction of tropoelastin in the presence of lysyl oxidase. Once introduced to the infarct zone the solution forms elastin by cross linking via a lysine residue oxidation. The cross linked elastin remains in the infarct region to fortify the tissue and enhance the modulus wall strength elongation modulus of elasticity.

In one embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 1 ml. In another embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 300 l. In another embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to about 100 l. In a preferred embodiment the any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to about 50 l. If an agent is introduced via an IV or an IC route the volumes may range from about 1 ml to about 500 ml.

Any one or more catheters may be used to deliver the any one or multiple components of the embodiments to the infarct region area. Several catheters have been designed in order to precisely deliver agents to a damaged region within the heart for example an infarct region. Several of these catheters have been described U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 309 370 6 432 119 6 485 481 . The delivery device may include an apparatus for intracardiac drug administration including a sensor for positioning within the heart a delivery device to administer the desired agent and amount at the site of the position sensor.

To prevent heart failure it has been proposed that cardiomyocytes can be directly introduced into the infarct region to restore cardiac function cells of various origins including embryonic and adult stem cells. The viability of tissue engineering for a myocardial infarct zone requires that oxygen and nutrient supplies are readily available as well as a mode for removal of waste products from cell metabolism. The cells in these areas also need a supporting structure for adherence. The bioerodible gel with angiogenic and or fibroblast recruiting agents previously discussed provides this later supporting structure. In the literature it is known that the introduction of scaffolding with a bore size of less than 10 microns leads to a tightly fibrotic encapsulated scaffold with poor capillary in growth. On the other hand as demonstrated in if the scaffolding pore diameter is around 20 microns cellular encapsulation of the scaffold system is well perfused with capillary in growth leading to fibrotic poor cellular rich region. One embodiment includes scaffolding that is introduced to the infarct zone and acts as a mechanical reinforcement. The force is distributed more evenly at the infarct region and ventricular remodeling is prevented.

In one embodiment separate components are included to provide a network such as described above. One example is described in . A multi component composition includes the first component including the previously illustrated bioerodible matrix or scaffolding . In this particular composition the matrix first component provides a porous scaffolding to enhance capillary in growth. The microparticles of the first component may be approximately 20 microns. In another embodiment the first component of the composition may be introduced in a minimally invasive procedure such as percutaneously. A distal end of the catheter is advanced to the infarct zone and the bioerodible microparticles are released. In a further embodiment the first component of the composition may be introduced via an intra ventricular needle device to the infarct region. In a further embodiment an intra ventricular needle device including introducing multiple injections to the infarct region may introduce the first component of the composition. The first component may serve in one aspect as a domain to promote cell growth. In addition porosity may be controlled that leads to capillary in growth. The first component may be a bioerodible microparticle with growth factor and angiogenic potential. The factor or other agent may release over a 1 2 week period. One embodiment may be that the first component includes PLGA 50 50 previously described with carboxylic acid end groups. An example of capillary in growth to the domain provided by the first component may be facilitated by the release of angiogenic factors . One embodiment includes microparticles containing angiogenic factors that release rapidly after introduction to the infarct region. This tends to result in a rapid angiogenic response.

Biomaterials have been employed to conduct and accelerate otherwise naturally occurring phenomena such as tissue regeneration in wound healing in an otherwise healthy subject to induce cellular responses that might not normally be present such as healing in a diseased subject or the generation of a new vascular bed to receive a subsequent cell transplant and to block natural phenomena such as the immune rejection of cell transplants from other species or the transmission of growth factor signals that stimulate scar formation in certain situations.

A second component of the multi component composition according to the method may be an acrylate agent that is biocompatible. A second component serves in one aspect to disperse the first component in order to form a more uniform scaffold over the entire infarct zone and may include border zone as well. It may be an oligomeric di or multi functional acrylate agent based on a component that is biocompatible. An embodiment of the two component composition may include a second component comprising the following group di acryloyl polyethylene glycol tetra acryloyl polyethylene glycol PEG or acrylamidomethyl cellulose acetate proprionate. In order to dissolve the acrylamide functional cellulose component ethanol or a biocompatible is required. The second component disperses the microparticles. acting as a suspending media. It is known that PEG coated microparticles are less inflammatory and are seen not to elicit a fibrotic response. Thus it in one aspect may serve as an anti opsonization agent. Thus they serve as a camouflage from the immune system for introduction of the microparticles to the infarct region. One embodiment includes the injection of both the growth factor containing microparticles and the scaffold forming matrix acryloyl functional macromer using a dual bore needle. illustrates the final formation of the scaffold gel . The introduction of the two solutions simultaneously creates the near instantaneous around 10 seconds formation of the gel with a microparticle network imbedded within the scaffolding . As the microparticles decompose growth factors are released promoting the capillary formation within the matrix. In addition cells begin to grow in the infarct area . These cells release proteases that may result in the decomposition of the scaffolding ultimately creating additional area for cellular in growth. In addition the cells secrete their own extracellular matrix the polymer degrades and the resulting tissue may eventually become a completely natural environment. The decomposition products may be cleared from the area by the renal system since capillary re growth may occur.

Another component of a multi component composition and method is illustrated in and . A third component includes one of the following thiol containing peptide or a di or multi functional biocompatible such as dithio PEG. An example of a thiol containing peptide may be polycysteine oligomers. An example of this is a protected form of a polycysteine oligomer Poly S CBZ L cysteine or Poly S benzyl L cysteine Sigma Chemical P0263 and P7639 respectively . These agents can be de protected using standard organic chemistry protocols Berger et. al. Poly L cysteine J. Am. Chem. Soc 78 4483 1956 . The preparation of these thiol containing agents is well known Zervas L. et. al. On Cysteine and Cystine Peptides J. Am. Chem. Soc. 85 9 1337 1341 1963 . Additional agents that may function as the third component of a multi component composition may be a naturally occurring peptides. In one embodiment the third component of the multi component scaffolding may be one of the following consisting of Poly S CBZ L cysteine and Poly S benzyl L cysteine. In another embodiment of a multi component composition the third component of the multi component scaffolding may be a naturally occurring peptide. In a further embodiment of a multi component composition the third component of a multi component scaffolding may be the naturally occurring peptide glycine cysteine tyrosine lysine asparagine arginine aspartic acid cysteine glycine peptide sequence. The third component preferably contains at least two thiol groups. illustrate the introduction of the three components to the infarct region to treat an MI. One embodiment may be the introduction of the first component and the second component through a dual bore needle and then the introduction of a thiol containing third component through a second needle. illustrates a schematic of the final structure that subsequently recruits fibroblast growth and capillary in growth into the infarct region. The thiol containing component may be used to decrease the rate of decomposition of the scaffold and control release of the fibroblast recruiting components of the microparticles.

Any one or more catheters may be used to deliver the any one or multiple components of the embodiments to the infarct region area. Several catheters have been designed in order to precisely deliver agents to a damaged region within the heart for example an infarct region. Several of these catheters have been described U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 309 370 6 432 119 6 485 481 . The delivery device may include an apparatus for intracardiac drug administration including a sensor for positioning within the heart a delivery device to administer the desired agent and amount at the site of the position sensor.

The progression of heart failure after an MI is a result of the remodeling of the heart after infarct. In the remodeling processes the heart becomes thinner and the diameter increases in response to a decrease in heart output in an effort to maintain a continual cardiac output. This process of thinning results in an increase in the radius of the heart and the stresses on the heart increase.

It has been shown that perfluorocarbon compounds have a high affinity for gases for example carbon dioxide and oxygen. The ability of perfluorocarbons to transport oxygen is approximately eighteen times greater than blood plasma in a comparable volume of each component. In addition it was shown that the half life for oxygenation deoxygenation is approximately three and one half times faster for many perfluorated compounds as compared to hemoglobin. Thus perfluoro compounds may be used in tissues to aid in the reoxygenation of an affected region such as an infarct region. A few examples that demonstrate biocompatibility in a subject are identified in Table 1.

In one embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 1 ml. In another embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 300 l. In another embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 100 l. In a preferred embodiment the any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 50 l. IV and IC routes may be required which would involve larger treatment volumes for example about 2 mls to about 250 mls .

Examples include hydrogel spheres composed of cross linked polyacrylamide or cross linked PVP. The monomeric form of these products will contain di functional monomers such as di vinyl benzene ethylene glycol dimethylacrylate or bis acrylamido acetic acid. These agents form a cross linked network that is resistant to dissolution in aqueous systems.

Several commercial products are available that may be used such as microparticles obtained from A.P. Pharma or Biosphere Medical. These microparticles resist non specific protein absorption and have bio stable backbone linkages. These microparticles are not bioerodible or bioabsorbable. illustrates the microparticles dispersed in the infarct region taking up the surrounding fluid and swelling until they become lodged in the region .

In one specific embodiment of the present invention the single component for structural reinforcement comprises bovine collagen dispersed with PMMA polymethyl methylacrylate beads. These beads may be manufactured under the trade name of ARTECOLL Rofil Medical International Breda The Netherlands . PMMA is one of several cross linked or highly insoluble microparticles. PMMA was discovered in the early 1900 s and was used initially in dental prosthesis. Recently it has been used in bone replacement of the jaw and hip. In addition it has been used for artificial eye lenses pacemakers and dentures. ARTECOLL has principally been used in filling folds and wrinkles of the face augmenting lips adjusting an irregular nose.

Possibly one of the most important features of the insoluble microparticles is the surface of the microparticles must be smooth to induce collagen deposition. A rough surface promotes macrophage activity while discouraging collagen deposition. The methods incorporate the use of smooth surface particles. The components may act as a substrate for endogenous collagen deposition. As the reinforcing gel degrades the highly stable and smooth microparticles may be exposed to the fibroblast cell population occupying the site. This triggers the production of collagen to replace the decomposing gel. Therefore the infarct zone may be reinforced by the collagen replacement of the temporary gel. In one embodiment the dispersing material includes one of the following group of microparticle materials consisting of PMMA polymethyl methylacrylate P MMA co BMA polymethyl methylacrylate co butyl methylacrylate carbon microparticles Durasphere polystyrene cross linked acrylic hydrogels and PLGA. In another embodiment the cross linked acrylic hydrogel may include the following HEMA 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate AA acrylic acid AMPS acrylamido methyl propane sulfonate acrylamide N N di methyl acrylamide diacetone acrylamide styrene sulfonate and di or tri functional monomers. The di or tri functional monomers may be EGDMA ethylene glycol dimethacrylate and DVB di vinyl benzene . In addition the use of highly crystalline and hydrolysis resistant PLGA microparticles may outlast the carrier gel and also provide a useful substrate for collagen deposition.

Another single solution introduced to the infarct zone may be hyaluronic acid dissolved in sodium salt in water. This is a manufactured gel sold as a dermal augmentation gel RESTYLANE . Hyaluronic acid hydrogel has also been used in the past for control of delivery of therapeutic agents in wound sites Luo Y. et al. Cross linked hyaluronic acid hydrogel films new biomaterials for drug delivery Journal of Controlled Release 2000 69 169 184 . Other possible single introduced components include bovine collagen ZYDERIVI or ZYPLAST another dermal augmentation gel developed by Collagen Corp. The high molecular weight ultrapure polyacrylamide in water may be FORIVIACRYL or BIOFORM other dermal augmentation gels. The bovine collagen may be dispersed by the PMMA product ARTECOLL . ARTECOLL is best known for its success as a biocompatible dermal augmentation gel for reconstruction. RESOPLAST Rofil Medical International Breda The Netherlands may also be used as a single component gel.

In another embodiment a reactive single component includes a component that is temperature sensitive. This is illustrated in . One example of this type of component is a component that may be a liquid at room temperature and once exposed to a temperature approximately equal to body temperature the component gels. A more specific component includes introducing block co polymers of silk protein like sub units and elastin like sub units. An example of the block co polymer synthetic protein may be ProLastin PPTI Protein Polymer Technologies . These components gel due to non covalent interactions hydrogen bonding and crystallization of silk like subunits at elevated temperatures for example approximately equal to body temperature. With these components no lysine residues are present so cross linking due to endogenous lysyl oxidase does not occur. The formation of the gel via a change in temperature may be adjusted using additives. These additives include but are not limited to sodium chloride Diglyme Diethylene Glycol Dimethyl Ether 2 Methoxyethyl Ether Bis 2 Methoxy Ethyl Ether and ethanol.

Many thermal reversible materials may be used for reinforcement of the myocardial tissue. Generally thermal reversible components at temperatures of approximately 37 degrees Celsius and below are liquid or soft gel. When the temperature shifts to 37 degrees Celcius or above the thermal reversible components tend to harden. In one embodiment the temperature sensitive structurally reinforcing component may be Triblock poly lactide co glycolide polyethylene glycol copolymer. This is commercially available REGEL Macromed Utah . In another embodiment the temperature sensitive structurally reinforcing component may include the following consisting of poly N isopropylacrylamide and copolymers of polyacrylic acid and poly N isopropylacrylamide . Another temperature sensitive structurally reinforcing component commercially available is PLURONICS aqueous solutions of PEO PPO PEO poly ethylene oxide poly propylene oxide poly ethylene oxide tri block copolymers BASF N.J. Huang K. et al. Synthesis and Characterization of Self Assembling Block copolymers Containing Bioadhesive End Groups Biomacromolecules 2002 3 397 406 . Another embodiment includes combining two or more of the single components in order to structurally reinforce the infarct region. For example silk elastin collagen and Laminin may be used as a one part system. The silk elastin would likely form in situ cross links due to the silk blocks.

In another embodiment a reactive single component includes a component that is pH sensitive. The component remains in a liquid state if it is sufficiently protonated preventing gelation. In another embodiment the component is initially maintained at a low pH for example pH 3.0 and later introduced to the treatment area that results in gelation of the component due to the physiological pH of the environment. One example of this is discussed in Example 3. Several possible cationic agents may be but are not limited to one of the following cationic agents that remain protonated at low pH poly allyl amine DEAE Dextran ethoxylated Poly ethylenimine and Poly lysine . Other examples may one of but are not limited to the following anionic agents for example dextran sulfate carboxymethyl dextran carboxymethylcellulose polystyrene sulfanate and chrondroitin sulfate.

Additionally any of these microparticle components may be accompanied by one or more contrast agent and or suitable agent s for treatment of the region. The contrast agent or treatment agent may be conjugated to or dissolved into the structural component prior to introduction to the infarct area. The agents that may accompany the reinforcing component s may include but are not limited to angiogenic agents ACE inhibitors angiotensin receptor blockers SRCA sercoplasmic reticulum calcium pump pump increasing agents phospholamban inhibitors and anti apoptotic drugs. These agents may be in the form of small molecules peptides proteins or gene products. The small molecules may be optionally conjugated to a component of the solution dispersed in solution or dissolved in solution to improve the adhesion of the reinforcing components to the tissue. One embodiment is to conjugate a peptide with a conserved region that mediates adhesion processes. A conserved region of a peptide may be a sequence of amino acids having a special function of identification that has been conserved in a protein family over time. Another embodiment includes the use of a specific peptide conjugate with a conserved RGD arginine R glycine G asparagine D motif in the presence of the reinforcing component. In further embodiments the RGD motif peptide may include the following such as von Willebrand factor osteopontin fibronectin fibrinogen vitronectin laminin and collagen. One embodiment seeks to minimize thinning during remodeling of the infarct region. Thus bulking and reinforcing the infarct region post MI may preserve the geometry of the ventricle.

Any one or more catheters may be used to deliver the any one or multiple components of the embodiments to the infarct region area. Several catheters have been designed in order to precisely deliver agents to a damaged region within the heart for example an infarct region. Several of these catheters have been described U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 309 370 6 432 119 6 485 481 . The delivery device may include an apparatus for intracardiac drug administration including a sensor for positioning within the heart a delivery device to administer the desired agent and amount at the site of the position sensor.

In addition biocompatible viscosifiers for example type 1 gels may be added in combination with any of the single or multiple component systems illustrated. For example hyaluronic acid or PVP may be used to increase the resistance of the active formula from natural degradation once introduced to the infarct zone. In one embodiment the viscosity of the treatment agent may be about 0 100 centipoise. In other embodiments the viscosity of the treatment agent may be about 0 50 centipoise. In a preferred embodiment the viscosity of the treatment agent may be about 25 40 centipoise. In a preferred embodiment the viscosity of the treatment agent may be about 35 centipoise.

In one embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 1 ml. In another embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 300 l. In another embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 100 l. In a preferred embodiment the any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 50 l. IV and IC routes may be required which would involve larger treatment volumes for example about 2 mls to about 250 mls .

Biocompatible dyes may be added to any single or combination components of any of the described embodiments to trace the components in the infarct region in any procedure. Other dyes may be added for experimental purposes to trace the deposition of any agent for example in a rat heart. Some examples of these dyes include but are not limited to Sudan Red B Fat Brown RR Eosin Y and Toluidine blue.

On the other hand tissue adhesive components may also be added in combination with any of the single or dual component systems illustrated in and . For example Laminin 5 polyacrylic acid Chitosan and water soluble chitosan may be used to increase the tissue retention of the active formulation. Laminin 5 is a basement membrane extracellular matrix macromolecule that provides an attachment substrate for both adhesion and migration in a wide variety of cell types including epithelial cells fibroblasts neurons and leukocytes. Chitosan is the only natural positive ion polysaccharide obtained from deacetylated chitin. It possesses decomposability good membrane forming state biocompatibility anti fungal and anti tumor function. Chitosan has excellent viscosity compressibility and fluidity.

Several examples of the microparticles of and are illustrated in . illustrates the viscous liquid sucrose acetate isobutyrate SAIB . SAIB is water insoluble. SAIB may be dissolved in a solvent or a combination of solvents for example ethanol dimethylsulfoxide ethyl lactate ethyl acetate benzyl alcohol triacetin 2 pyrrolidone N methylpyrrolidone propylene carbonate or glycofurol. These solvents decrease the viscosity of SAIB in order to facilitate the introduction of this agent through a needle or lumen. In one embodiment SAIB may be introduced accompanied by a solvent to the infarct region and the solvent dissipates at the site leaving behind the viscous SAIB in the region.

Other biocompatible polymer systems may be introduced to an infarct zone . Some of these agents are not only biocompatible but also substantially water insoluble similar to SAIB. Solvents or mixtures of solvents may be used to dissolve the polymer in order to facilitate introduction to the infarct zone. In one embodiment a biocompatible water insoluble polymer may include the following consisting of polylactides polyglycolides polycaprolactones polyanhydrides polyalkylene oxates polyamides polyurethanes polyesteramides polydioxanones polyhydroxyvalerates polyacetals polyketals polycarbonates polyorthoesters polyphosphazenes polyhydroxybutyrates polyalkylene succinates and poly amino acids . Any one of these insoluble polymers may be dissolved in solvents for example Diglyme dimethyl isosorbide N methyl 2 pyrrolidone 2 pyrrolidone glycerol propylene glycol ethanol tetraglycol diethyl succinate solketal ethyl acetate ethyl lactate ethyl butyrate dibutyl malonate tributyl citrate tri n hexyl acetylcitrate dietyl glutarate diethyl malonate triethyl citrate triacetin tributyrin diethyl carbonate propylene carbonate acetone methyl ethyl ketone dimethyl sulfoxide dimethyl sulfone tetrahydrofuran capralactum N N diethyl m toluamide 1 dodecylazacycloheptan 2 one 1 3 dimethyl 3 4 5 6 tetrahydro 2 1H pyrimidinone and glycerol formal to form an injectable polymer solution. The dispersion may be introduced into the infarct region of the heart where the solvent may dissipate and the polymer may precipitate out of the dispersion to structurally reinforce the infarct regional wall. In one embodiment the disclosed polymers may be used in any combination as co polymers of two or more polymers introduced to the infarct region.

Other components may act as a substrate for endogenous collagen deposition and protect the precipitated or remaining microparticles described in from erosion. As the reinforcing gel degrades the highly stable and smooth microparticles may be exposed to the fibroblast cell population occupying the site. This triggers the production of collagen to replace the decomposing gel. Therefore the infarct zone may be reinforced by the collagen replacement of the temporary gel. The dispersed material includes the following group of microparticle materials consisting of PMMA P MMA co BMA carbon microparticles Durasphere poly styrene cross linked acrylic hydrogels and PLGA. In another embodiment the cross linked acrylic hydrogel may include the following for example HEMA AA AMPS acrylamide N N di methyl acrylamide diacetone acrylamide styrene sulfonate and di or tri functional monomers. The di or tri functional monomers may be EGDMA and DVB. Another example of durable microparticles includes pyrolytic carbon coated microparticles. One example of pyrolytic carbon coated microparticles was originally produced for urinary incontinence Carbon Medical Technologies and trisacryl gelatin microparticles for use as embolization particles Biosphere . In addition the use of highly crystalline and hydrolysis resistant PLGA microparticles may outlast the carrier gel and also provide a useful substrate for collagen deposition.

One or more contrast agents and or suitable treatment agent s may accompany the previously detailed components as a treatment of the infarct region. The contrast agent or treatment agent may be conjugated to or dissolved into the structural component prior to introduction to the infarct area. The contrast agents may be used for detection in X ray or MR analysis. The agents that may accompany the reinforcing component s may include but are not limited to angiogenic agents ACE inhibitors angiotensin receptor blockers SRCA pump sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium pump increasing agents phospholamban inhibitors and anti apoptotic drugs. These agents may be in the form of small molecules peptides proteins or gene products. The small molecules may be optionally conjugated to a component of the solution dispersed in solution or dissolved in solution to improve the adhesion of the reinforcing components to the tissue. One embodiment is to conjugate a peptide with a conserved region that mediates adhesion processes. Another embodiment includes the use of a specific peptide conjugate with a RGD arginine glycine asparagine motif in the presence of the reinforcing component. In further embodiments the RGD motif peptide may include von Willebrand factor osteopontin fibronectin fibrinogen vitronectin laminin and collagen.

In one embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 1 ml. In another embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 300 l. In another embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 100 l. In a preferred embodiment the any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 50 l.

A contrast agent or treatment agent may be conjugated to or dissolved into the structural component prior to introduction to the infarct area.

Several possible cross linking agents are illustrated in to illustrate the possible agents of to prevent collagen slippage . The agent injected into the infarct region may be polyfunctional either hetero or homopolymer . Another important feature of the cross linking agent is the ability of the agent to cross link to the side groups of the amino acids of the collagen type I and III . In one embodiment the agent is soluble in a biocompatible water miscible solvent that is capable of being drawn out of the dispersion by aqueous fluid present in the myocardium. T his enables the cross linking agent the ability to precipitate out into the infarct region minimizing migration of the cross linking agent out of the area. In another embodiment the biocompatible solvent used in the presence of the cross linking agent may be the following Diglyme and dimethyl isosorbide. Collagen is made up of a large number of lysine and hydroxyproline residues that carry reactive side groups of primary amines and hydroxyl groups respectively. In the following examples the cross linking agents react with at least one of these side groups. illustrates a flowchart describing a method using polyepoxy functional resins for cross linking the collagen. In one embodiment a polyepoxyl functional resin may be introduced to the infarct region. In another embodiment the polyepoxy functional resin may comprise the following consisting of Bisphenol A epoxies Shell 828 Epoxy Novolak resins Ciba 1138 and 1139 Dow 431 homopolymers of glycidyl methacrylate GMA or copolymers of GMA with other acrylates. In another embodiment the polyepoxy functional resins may include a multifunctional epoxide. In another embodiment the polyepoxy functional resins may include an acrylate. The later resins multifunctional epoxides and acrylate are based on a cubic silicone with eight epoxide or acrylate functionalities Silsesquixanes . In another embodiment the polyepoxy functional resins may include a tetra functional epoxide silicone. In another embodiment the polyepoxy functional resins may include di functional epoxide silicone.

Polyhydroxyl aromatics resorcinol groups such as vegetable tannins have been used to cross link collagen for processing animal hides into leather. illustrates a flowchart describing the use of these resorcinol groups for collagen cross linking Solvent soluble resorcinol formaldehyde resins contain numerous resorcinol groups. A methylene bridge and or an ether bridge connect the resorcinol groups. RESORCINOL is capable of cross linking collagen but one problem is that it is corrosive and water miscible in its monomeric form. In one embodiment the cross linking agent to secure the collagen and structurally reinforce the infarct region may be a resorcinol formaldehyde resin.

In the final flowchart example of illustrates a flowchart describing the use of microparticles to cross link and stabilize the collagen in the infarct region. One example includes the use of surfactant free styrene latex particles in narrow size distributions that also contain the following functional surface groups comprising chloromethyl epoxy and aldehyde. The aldehyde surface groups may be tightly packed therefore borohydride reduction would not be necessary for a stable linkage. Chloromethyl groups react with primary and secondary amines thus forming a stable cross link. Other possible functional reacting groups may include succinimidyl ester benzotriazole carbonate and p nitrophenyl carbonate. Other possible functional groups may be used. In one embodiment the size limitation of the microparticles may include submicron to single digit micron size. This size range prevents the microparticles that may backwash out of the site from causing an embolic hazard. In other embodiments the cross linking agent may be a functionalized surfactant free styrene latex microparticle. Several examples exist of these styrene microparticles. Examples of commercially available functional stryrene microparticles are manufactured by Interfacial Dynamics Corporation and Magsphere.

Additionally any one of these agents illustrated in may be accompanied by one or more contrast agent and or suitable agent s for treatment of the region. The contrast agent or treatment agent may be conjugated to or dissolved into the structural component prior to introduction to the infarct area. The agents that may accompany the reinforcing component s may include but are not limited to angiogenic agents ACE inhibitors angiotensin receptor blockers SRCA pump increasing agents phospholamban inhibitors and anti apoptotic drugs. These agents may be in the form of small molecules peptides proteins or gene products. The small molecules may be optionally conjugated to a component of the solution dispersed in solution or dissolved in solution to improve the adhesion of the reinforcing components to the tissue. One embodiment is to conjugate a peptide with a conserved region that mediates adhesion processes. Another embodiment includes the use of a specific peptide conjugate with a RGD arginine glycine asparagine motif in the presence of the reinforcing component. In further embodiments the RGD motif peptide comprises the following consisting of von Willebrand factor osteopontin fibronectin fibrinogen vitronectin laminin and collagen.

After an MI injury occurs macrophages tend to infiltrate the infarct region. The macrophages release matrix metalloproteinases MMPs . As members of a zinc containing endoproteinase family the MMPs have structural similarities but each enzyme has a different substrate specificity produced by different cells and have different inducibilities. These enzymes cause destruction in the infarct zone. One important structural component destroyed by MMPs is the extracellular matrix ECM . The ECM is a complex structural entity surrounding and supporting cells that are found within mammalian tissues. The ECM is often referred to as the connective tissue. The ECM is composed of 3 major classes of biomolecules structural proteins for example collagen and elastin specialized proteins for example fibrillin fibronectin and laminin and proteoglycans these are composed of a protein core to which is attached long chains of repeating disaccharide units termed of glycosaminoglycans GAGs forming extremely complex high molecular weight components of the ECM. Collagen is the principal component of the ECM and MMP induce ECM degradation and affect collagen deposition Inhibitors of MMP s exist and some of these inhibitors are tissue specific. It was previously demonstrated that acute pharmacological inhibition of MMPs or in some cases a deficiency in MMP 9 that the left ventricle dilatation is attenuated in the infarct heart of a mouse Creemers E. et. al. Matrix Metalloproteinase Inhibition After Myocardial Infarction A New Approach to Prevent Heart Failure Circ Res. Vol 89 No. 5 2315 2326 1994 . The inhibitors of MMPs are referred to as tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases TIMPs . Synthetic forms of MMPIs also exist for example BB 94 AG3340 Ro32 355b and GM 6001. It was previously shown that MMPIs reduce the remodeling in the left ventricle by reducing wall thinning. These experiments were performed on rabbits. In addition this study also demonstrated that MMPI increases rather than decreases neovascularization in the subendocardium Lindsey et. al. Selective matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors reduce left ventricle remodeling but does not inhibit angiogenesis after myocardial infarction Circulation 2002 Feb. 12 105 6 753 8 . In the one embodiment MMPIs may be introduced to the infarct region to delay the remodeling process by reducing the migration of fibroblasts and deposition of collagen and prevent ECM degradation reduce leukocyte influx and also reduce wall stress. In one embodiment the MMPIs may include the following TIMPs including but not limited to TIMP 1 TIMP 2 TIMP 3 and TIMP 4 introduced to the infarct region in combination with introducing any of the described structurally reinforcing agents to the infarct region. In another embodiment naturally occurring inhibitors of MMPs may be increased by exogenous administration of recombinant TIMPs. In another embodiment the MMPI comprises a synthetically derived MMPI introduced to the infarct region in combination with introducing any of the described structurally reinforcing agents to the infarct region. The introduction of MMPIs to the infarct zone may be accomplished by several different methods. It is critical that the introduction of these MMPI agents be accomplished by a minimally invasive technique. In one embodiment MMPI agents will be introduced to the region by a minimally invasive procedure to prevent ECM degradation. An agent or dispersion will be introduced in one embodiment by multiple injections to the infarct region. This results in prevention of ECM degradation and increased strength to the regional wall. In one embodiment the MMPI agent may be injected in to the infarct zone during an open chest procedure via a minimally invasive procedure. In another the minimally invasive procedure may include one of sub xiphoid and percutaneously. In another embodiment the percutaneous introduction into the infarct zone may include one of intra ventricular needle transvascular needle catheter and retrograde venous perfusion. In addition the MMPI agents may be introduced via suspension or sustained release formula for example introduced in microparticles detailed in the three component system of . In one embodiment the introduction of MMPIs may follow any of the cross linking events that prevent collagen slippage. In another embodiment the cross linking agent may be cleared from the targeted infarct area prior to introducing the MMPI s .

After an MI the myocardium may be significantly affected resulting in a percentage of the tissue being akinetic or dyskinetic. This often occurs when the MI is caused by an occluded left anterior descending artery. Moderate infarct where 20 to 40 percent of the tissue is affected decreased cardiac output occurs resulting in the activation of the neurohormonal system via a RAAS renin angiotensin aldosterone system . Thus the neurohormonal activation causes an increase in blood pressure resulting in further stress to the myocardium. The induced necrosis results in an inflammatory response that clears the site of the necrotic tissue and ultimately leads to thinning of the myocardium. The cycle continues with an increase in stress on the myocardium and may result ultimately in heart failure.

Visible light maybe used to initiate interfacial photopolymerization of a polyoxyethylene glycol PEG co poly alpha hydroxy acid copolymer based on PEG 8000 macromonomer in the presence of an initiator for example Quanticare QTX. Initiator 2 hydroxy 3 3 4 dimethyl 9 oxo 9H thioxanthen 2 yloxy N N N trimethyl 1 propanium chloride photo initiator may be obtained as Quantacure QTX. This is a specific water soluble photo initiator that absorbs ultraviolet and or visible radiation and forms an excited state that may subsequently react with electron donating sites and may produce free radicals. This technology has been used to demonstrate adherence to porcine aortic tissue resulting in a hydrogel barrier that conformed to the region of introduction. The resulting matrix was optimized in vitro and resulted in the formation of a 5 100 microns thick barrier Lyman M D et. al. Characterization of the formation of interfacially photopolymerized thin hydrogels in contact with arterial tissue Biomaterials 1996 February 17 3 359 64 . Scaffolding may be directed to only the desired area of the ventricle using minimally invasive procedures discussed previously. The structural reinforcement could remain in place until it is cleared or degraded .

One embodiment includes introduction to the infarct zone of benzoin derivatives hydroxalkylphenones benziketals and acetophenone derivatives or similar compounds. These photo initiators form radicals upon exposure to UV light by either photocleavage or by hydrogen abstraction to initiate the reaction see . The source of the UV or visible light may be supplied by means of a catheter for example a fiber optic tip catheter or lead on a catheter illustrated in or transdermally. illustrate a catheter assembly that may be used to deliver a light sensitive material. The catheter is designed to provide a delivery device with at least one lumen for one or more agent s and a light source for modification of the delivered agent. The catheter controller may house a switch for the light source and a controller for agent delivery . In another embodiment the photo initiator Camphorquinone may be used. Camphorquinone has been used extensively in dental applications and has a lambda max of 467 nanometers. For example this agent can be activated by a GaN blue LED on the tip of a catheter. One embodiment includes the use of visible light at the end of the delivery catheter to induce the polymerization event in the presence of a light sensitive initiator. Another embodiment includes the use of the photoinitiator Camphorquinone that may facilitate the cross linking of the hydrogel by a light on the tip of a catheter within the infarct region. Another embodiment includes the use of the photoinitiator Quanticare QTX that may facilitate the cross linking of the hydrogel by a light on the tip of a catheter within the infarct region. Another embodiment includes the use of a catheter with a UVA light source to induce the polymerization event in the presence of a light sensitive initiator. Other initiators of polymerization in the visible group include water soluble free radical initiator 2 hydroxy 3 3 4 dimethyl 9 oxo 9H thioxanthen 2 yloxy N N N trimethyl 1 propanium chloride. This cascade of events provides the necessary environment for initiation of polymerization of suitable vinyl monomers or pre polymers in aqueous form within the infarct region Kinart et. al. Electrochemical studies of 2 hydroxy 3 3 4 dimethyl 9 oxo 9H thioxanthen 2 yloxy N N N trimethyl 1 propanium chloride J. Electroanal. Chem 294 1990 293 297 .

One possible method of introducing a photo polymerizable agent to the infarct region is illustrated in . In one embodiment the photo polymerizable material is introduced to the infarct regions during an open chest procedure or via a minimally invasive procedure . In another embodiment the minimally invasive procedure includes the following sub xiphoid and percutaneously. In another embodiment the percutaneous introduction into the infarct zone may comprise one of the following consisting of intra ventricular needle transvascular needle catheter and retrograde venous perfusion. A single bore needle catheter may be used to introduce the photo polymerizable material into the infarct zone . Once the agent is introduced to the region several heartbeats clear the excess agent into the ventricle and this excess agent is cleared from the cardiac region. Once the excess material is cleared the light source may be introduced to induce polymerization . Thus the structural reinforcement is confined to the local area of damage where tissue augmentation is required. As illustrated in the scaffolding may be made up of a resistant material or a biodegradable material . Some examples of biodegradable materials include PEG co poly hydroxy acid diacrylate macromers derivatives of this material that vary the length and composition of the hydroxy acid segment in the co polymer polypropylene fumarate co ethylene glycol and hyaluronic acid derivatives. The degradation rates of the polymers may be varied according to the optimum length of time the material is required to remain in the infarct region. It has been shown that the degradation rates of theses gels can be modified by the appropriate choice of the oligo hydroxy acid from as little as less than one day to as long as 4 months Sawhney A. S. et. al. Bioerodible Hydrogels Based on Photopolymerized Poly ethylene glycol co poly hydroxy acid Diacrylare Macromers. Macromolecules 1993 26 581 587 . Any of these polymer chains may be formed in the presence of a photoinitiator such as Quanticare QTX and a light source.

In one embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 1 ml. In another embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 300 l. In another embodiment any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 100 l. In a preferred embodiment the any of the described agents may be introduced in one or more doses in a volume of about 1 l to 50 l.

Another method for reinforcing the damaged wall of a ventricle may include introduction of a solid material to the damaged area. The solid material may be used to fill or bulk the region by introducing plugs of the solid material to the site and may increase the compliance of the ventricle. These materials may be made of organic or silicon based polymers biodegradable polymers non biodegradable polymers engineered biomaterials and or metals. In one embodiment the plug may have barbs or pointed ends in order to lodge the material into the area and ensure it remains there. In other embodiments the sealant or plug may add bulk to the thinning wall of an infarct post myocardial infarction. This may result in an increase in the modulus of elasticity of the damaged area. In other embodiments the sealant or plug may invoke an inflammatory response to the infarct region. The inflammatory response will result in the increase in angiogenic response capable of causing recruitment and activation of fibroblasts that deposit additional collagen to bulk the thinning infarct region and increase the modulus of elasticity of this region. Still other embodiments include the addition of a plug to the damaged region of a ventricle that may add strength to the wall and also cause an inflammatory response to the region.

In one embodiment the plug supplied to the damaged region of the ventricle may include biocompatible organic components. In other embodiments the plug supplied to the damaged region of the ventricle may include a biocompatible silicone based polymer. In other embodiments the plug supplied to the damaged region of the ventricle may include biocompatible biodegradable polymers for example PLGA Poly hydroxyvalerate and poly ortho esters etc. In other embodiments the plug supplied to the damaged region of the ventricle may include biocompatible non biodegradable material for example polypropylene and PMMA. In still further embodiments the plug supplied to the damaged region of the ventricle may include biocompatible metal compounds for example 316L Co Cr alloy Tantalum and titanium etc. Another advantage to using a plug directly implanted in the region of interest may be to add additional surface components to the plug such as side groups. These side groups may contain reactive side groups that react with exogenously supplied or endogenous collagen for example type I and type III collagen. Since collagen contains a significant number of lysine and hydroxyproline residues these residues harbor primary amine and hydroxyl groups capable of reacting with other moieties. In one embodiment the plug supplied to the damaged region of the ventricle may include surface aldehyde groups capable of reacting with the primary amines of lysine in collagen.

The size and the shape of the plugs may vary depending on the situation. For example polymeric plugs mentioned previously may be machined injection molded extruded or solution cast. In one embodiment the shape of the plug may be elongated and thin in order to facilitate delivery by a catheter device. These plugs may also possess a barb or side protrusion to prevent the plug from slipping out of the site once it is introduced to the damaged region of the ventricle. In other embodiments the plug may be created in the shape similar to a screw or a helix. In one embodiment the plug may be a polymeric material. In other embodiments the plug may be a polymeric material with SS anchors for example a plug with a stainless steel band with anchors for embedding the plug into the site of interest. The size of the plug may also vary. In one embodiment the radial diameter of the plug may be from about 0.1 mm to about 5 mm. In other embodiments the radial diameter of the plug may be about 0.2 mm to about 3 mm. In other embodiments the length of the plug may be from about 1 to about 20 mm. In other embodiments the length of the plug may be about 2 mm to about 12 mm. In addition to the size and shape of the plug the number of plugs supplied to a region in the ventricle may also vary depending on the extent of damage and the condition of the subject. In one embodiment the number of plugs supplied to the region may about 1 to about 200. In other embodiments the number of plugs supplied to the region may be about 5 to about 50. In still further embodiments the number of plugs supplied to the region may be about 2 to about 20.

In a preferred embodiment the plug may be a processed biocompatible biomaterial. This biomaterial may be advantageous for recruiting cells to the damaged region for additional strength to the site. One example of a biomaterial includes porcine derived Small Intestine Submucosa termed SIS. This engineered biomaterial may be supplied from DePuy Inc and the Cook Group. It is available in sterile sheets. SIS includes the complete small intestinal submucosa including de cellularized extracellular matrix ECM in a native configuration. It also includes important endogenous growth factors adhered to the matrix. SIS has previously been shown to recruit pluripotent bone marrow derived stem cells that adhere to the SIS and induce healing. SIS has previously been used to repair rotator cuff injuries diabetic foot ulcers and hip joints. SIS has been shown to re absorb after a period of approximately 3 to 4 months. After re absorption the healed live tissue has replaced the matrix. In one embodiment small disks of SIS may be supplied to a region in the ventricle for example an infarct region. The SIS disks may provide similar recruitment of cells into the damaged myocardium. These cells may then transform into viable muscle tissue and may form contractile myocytes.

There are several methods that may be used to introduce any of the plugs described. An optimum approach for introduction of the plugs may include but is not limited to introduction to the infarct region and or the border zone of an infarct region during an open heart procedure or through a minimally invasive procedure for example sub xiphoid or percutaneously for example with an intra ventricular catheter or transvascular catheter venous or arterial . One embodiment for introducing the plugs to the infarct region may include directly introducing the plugs to the site during an open heart surgical procedure.

One or more contrast agents and or suitable treatment agent s may accompany the previously detailed components. The contrast agent or treatment agent may be dispersed into conjugated to or dissolved into the plug component prior to introduction to the infarct area. The contrast agents may be used for detection in X ray or MR analysis. The agents that may accompany the reinforcing component s may include but are not limited to angiogenic agents ACE inhibitors angiotensin receptor blockers SRCA pump sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium pump increasing agents phospholamban inhibitors and anti apoptotic drugs. These agents may be in the form of small molecules peptides proteins or gene products. The agents may be optionally conjugated to a component of the resin mix that makes the plug dispersed in the plug solution prior to forming the plug or dissolved in the plug solution prior to forming the plug or packed into machined pockets or reservoirs in the plug to elicit a biological effect e.g. improve implant adhesion recruit cells promote healing . One embodiment is to conjugate a peptide with a conserved region that mediates adhesion processes. Another embodiment includes the use of a specific peptide conjugate with a RGD arginine glycine asparagine motif or the peptide receptor to RGD such as DDM aspartate aspartate methionine in the presence of the reinforcing component. In further embodiments the RGD motif peptide may include von Willebrand factor osteopontin fibronectin fibrinogen vitronectin laminin and collagen.

In the foregoing specification the embodiments have been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as detailed in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Example 1 illustrates one possible three component system described in to treat a myocardial infarction. A cross linking functionality can be synthesized starting from a fluorinated molecule with an ethylene functionality as in . Bromine is added to a fluoronated molecule . Reduced thiols rapidly replace the bromine groups forming a di functional thiol component . The di functional thiol can then react with a tetra acryloyl polyethylene glycol and a difunctional polyethylene glycol with both the thiol functionality and the RGD peptide sequence. The tetra acryloyl polyethylene glycol can be obtained from Shearwater Polymers as a specialty polymer product number 0J0000D04 M 2 000 with each arm having a molecular weight of 500 g mol or 15 PEG sequences long . It is generated by the reaction of the tetra hydroxyl terminated polyethylene glycol and acryloyl in the presence of a tertiary amine.

The third component is a peptide binding sequence with a polyethylene glycol functionality. The polyethylene glycol spacer must be longer then the spacer functionality of the other two components to prevent steric hindrance of the matrix components and ensure bio availability of the peptide binding sequence. In this mixture of these three components the average functionality must be two or greater to ensure desired gel formation.

In order to use this component system for the treatment of an MI an aliquot of acryloyl functionalities are diluted in water preferably with a basic pH. Then the aliquot is added to a syringe that feed a bore of a dual bore needle described previously . The thiol component is then added to a syringe that controls the second bore of the dual bore syringe. The two components with acryloyl functionalities and thiol functionalities are added simultaneously to the infarct region via the dual bore system or via a catheter. The components come in contact with one another at the site and form a gel network with a high oxygen carrying capability.

Example 2 incorporates all of the components of Example 1 with an additional component. Adult skin cells capable of differentiating into cardiomyocytes are added to the second component a perfluoronated compound. The cells may be injected along with the perfluoronated thiol. This would result in the formation of a hydrogel capable of supporting the oxygen demands of the cell. In addition the gel would swell by taking up fluids provide nutrients for the cells and is capable of eliminating cellular wastes as well as serving as a cellular scaffold for deposition of the fibroblasts. Other sources of cells that could be delivered and survive may include but are not limited to adult fetal and embryonic stems cells eg meschenchymal skeletal myoblast cells etc. .

illustrates the use of gel introduction to the infarct region of a deceased rat heart. Ex vivo rat hearts were obtained and the hearts were mapped for the infarct region. Less than 30 microliters of material were injected into the infarct region. An agent 10 poly allyl amine hydrochloride 3.1 grams plus 35 poly acrylic acid 0.7 grams system is protonated resulting in a stable aqueous solution was maintained at pH 3.0 within the catheter until it reached the targeted area. The solution was injected into 10 gelatin gel in phosphate buffered saline. The injectate gels instantly. The same injectate was used on the ex vivo rat heart. The injectate gelled instantly at the infarct region.

Sprague Dawley rats were infarcted by an open chest procedure ligature on LAD. Survived for 7 days to allow scar formation then sacrificed. Charles River Labs Hearts removed and packed in ice cold PBS.

The hearts were injected in infarct region by a 1 cc syringe 30 gauge needle. The following polymers were used in the infarct region.

1. PLGA poly lactic co glycolic acid polymer Birmingham Polymers a 20 solution in Diglyme with 0.6 Sudan Red B was introduced. It was injected into infarcted wall. The tissue swells immediately and then the solution precipitates in the infarct region.

2. Poly butyl methacrylate co methyl methacrylate. Mr 100 000 daltons Aldrich a 20 solution in Diglyme with 1 Fat Brown RR. It was injected into infarcted wall. The tissue swells immediately and then the solution precipitates in the infarct region.

3. A 3.1 gram aliquot of a 10 solution of Poly allyl amine Aldrich was mixed with 0.7 grams of 35 Poly acrylic acid in water Aldrich . In addition 1 Toluidine blue was added to the solution. This composition was injected into infarcted wall. The tissue swells immediately and the solution precipitates.

Histology sections 10 micron sliced demonstrated that the dyed polymers precipitated within the infarct tissue in the infarct region.

