---

title: Multi-mode user device and network-based control and monitoring
abstract: Methods, devices, and storage media for user devices to operate in multiple modes and provide mode indicators that indicate the mode in which the user device operates, and a network that provides multimode services that include monitoring service events associated with the multiple modes, control modes of operation, and allow users to view, manage, and classify service usage information that includes service event information and correlated mode information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09112918&OS=09112918&RS=09112918
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09112918
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120430
---
Currently mobile communication devices provide users with anywhere anytime service. Mobile communication devices include various applications and provide user interfaces to allow users to use various services access information and communicate with other users.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings identify the same or similar elements.

The term mode or user device mode as used herein indicates a manner of operation by a user device. For example a user device may operate in a work mode a personal mode and other types of user context modes. For example the user context may relate to the user s profession e.g. teacher attorney doctor etc. the user s familial position e.g. mom dad etc. the user s hobby e.g. musician painter astronomer gardener etc. or some other facet or role of the user s life e.g. student volunteer etc. . In other words the mode of the user device may support a particular user identity. The manner in which the user device operates when in a particular mode may include mode specific system level and or application level functionality. For example mode specific functionality may include operations pertaining to access appearance etc. with respect to security cryptography applications user interfaces e.g. desktop icons menus etc. data communications storage etc. associated with the user device and or user device interaction with another device user device interaction with a network etc. The user device may operate in multiple modes simultaneously. A further description is provided below.

Environment may be implemented to include wired and or wireless connections among the devices and network illustrated. A connection may be direct or indirect and may involve intermediary device s and or network s not illustrated in .

Network includes a network of one or multiple types. For example network may include a wireless network and a wired network. Network may include a public network and or a private network. Network may provide to users of user devices access to other networks not illustrated . Network includes network devices .

Network devices are capable of performing processes as described herein. For example network devices are capable of monitoring and controlling multi mode services as described herein. One or more network devices may be implemented as a computer an application server device a security device a storage device a database management system a networking device etc. Network device may be implemented according to a centralized computing architecture a distributed computing architecture or a cloud service. Additionally network device may be implemented according to one or multiple network architectures e.g. a client device a server device a peer device or a combination thereof .

User device includes a device having the capability to communicate with network . For example user device may be implemented as a smartphone a wireless telephone an IP telephone a Web access device a personal digital assistant PDA a personal communication system PCS terminal a pervasive computing device a computer and or some other type of device e.g. a portable device a mobile device a handheld device a stationary device a vehicle based device a tablet device a television that includes applications or other platform e.g. Android platform etc. etc. capable of performing a process as described herein. Additionally or alternatively user device may be implemented as a machine to machine device for example an appliance a thermostat a garage door opener an automobile an entertainment device a security system an asset monitor a robot a medical device etc. User device may operate according to one or more wireless and or wired network standards.

According to an exemplary embodiment user device operates in different modes. According to an exemplary implementation user device operates in a work mode and a personal mode. According to other implementations user device operates in other modes e.g. a teacher mode a student mode a mom mode or some other context based mode which include user configurable modes. According to an exemplary embodiment the mode in which user device operates may be initiated by the user and or by network e.g. one or more of network devices . According to an exemplary embodiment when in a work mode user device may establish an encrypted virtual private network VPN connection. According to an exemplary embodiment when in a work mode user device may provide other secure work environments such as for example secure online storage secure offline storage e.g. on user device secure communications e.g. encrypted voice video messaging etc. etc. According to an exemplary embodiment when user device is implemented as a machine to machine device user device may operate in different modes that are based on device specific functionality. For example a security device may operate in a vacation mode a house party mode etc. in which parameters and or functions performed by the device include mode specific operational characteristics.

According to an exemplary embodiment a user can setup and manage service usage modes via user device or via user device in communication with network e.g. a network portal . For example a user can view modify and reclassify service usage events e.g. communications storage of data use of an application etc. and classifications e.g. work personal painter etc. . According to an exemplary implementation all usage activity by the user via the network portal including usage reclassification is logged. Additionally according to an exemplary embodiment a user may store service usage mode information on user device to allow the user to apply this information to non connected user devices .

According to an exemplary embodiment user device provides service usage mode indications and notifications e.g. visual audible haptic . According to an exemplary implementation the service usage indications and notifications indicate service usage classifications of service. By way of example service usage indications and notifications include classifying communication notifications pertaining to communications e.g. audio calls video calls instant messaging messages e mails etc. as personal work etc. Additionally according to an exemplary embodiment mode indications may be communicated to and rendered by peripheral devices e.g. a headset display glasses a television etc. . According to an exemplary embodiment user device prioritizes service events e.g. a high priority work mode service event a low priority personal mode service event etc. . By way of example assume that the user is communicating e.g. over the telephone with his her boss while user device is operating in a work mode and the user s spouse calls user device indicates that the call is a personal mode service event provides caller identification information and provides a quick response absent user input. According to this example user device or network device prioritizes the work related call while operating in work mode over the personal call based on the mode of user device and the calling party e.g. the user s boss . Additionally user device may prioritize a service event based on other information such as for example the location of the user time and day information history information e.g. past instances when the user is speaking with his her boss and the spouse calls etc. etc. According to an exemplary implementation network may provide call screening features to override priorities. By way of example assume that the user s spouse is calling because of an accident or other important circumstance. Network may allow the calling party e.g. the user s spouse to indicate a priority which will allow the call to go through to the user. Additionally user device may provide additional notifications or indicators that among other things indicate the importance of the call and or that the calling party requested that the call be treated as an overriding service event. In this way application driven quality of service may be leveraged in prioritization of a service event such as a communication event.

Further to the above example according to an exemplary embodiment service event priorities may be identified by user device and or network based on various types of information such as current mode of operation of user device context information user preferences user invoked priority calling party etc. According to an exemplary implementation a mode of user device includes service event priority functionality.

According to an exemplary embodiment user device includes quick response capabilities for each of the service modes. For example user device selects a quick response e.g. a text message e.g. SMS or other type of communication e.g. e mail IM voice or text to speech message video message etc. in response to receiving a telephone call. According to an exemplary embodiment user device automatically selects a quick response based on the mode of user device . For example the user may store quick responses to be used on a per mode basis. For example a quick response to be used when user device is in a personal mode may be more informal than a quick response to be used when user device is in a work mode. In this way the user may store quick responses that are tailored to the mode of user device . User device may select a quick response based on a correlation between the communicating party and a mode. For example a contact entry e.g. the user s spouse may be correlated with a personal mode while a contact entry e.g. the user s boss may be correlated with a work mode. According to another embodiment the user may manually select a quick response. According to another embodiment network may automatically select a quick response based on being aware of the current mode of user device knowledge of the correlation between the communicating party and the mode user preferences etc.

According to an exemplary embodiment user device and or network may generate rich presence information based on the mode of operation of user device . By way of example assume that a user is speaking with his her boss over the telephone when user device is in a work mode. According to this example the rich presence information may indicate the user s activity and the mode of user device e.g. business call work mode . User device and or network may also infer other more standard forms of presence information based on the caller called party such as e.g. business call work mode do not disturb e.g. business call work mode important or other types of user customized messages based on the mode of operation of user device .

According to an exemplary embodiment network provides service usage control and monitoring. For example network monitors and classifies all service usage events by service usage mode e.g. personal work etc. . According to an exemplary embodiment network obtains session information pertaining to communications associated with user device s and a user to allow network to track classify infer and log service usage on a per user per user device and per mode basis. According to an exemplary embodiment network provides deep packet inspection e.g. to determine classify usage etc. of all traffic over a VPN for work mode usage.

According to an exemplary embodiment user device logically partitions specific usage mode information e.g. data usage logs contact information etc. . According to an exemplary implementation user device may include a virtual machine e.g. an isolated guest operating system a Java Virtual Machine etc. for each mode of operation. For example while operating in work mode user device may secure via techniques including encryption and isolation usage work mode information. According to an exemplary embodiment network partitions usage mode information based on a correlated mode. According to an exemplary implementation network uses context information to intelligently determine a service usage mode and may restrict access to secured data when appropriate.

According to an exemplary embodiment network and or user device uses context information to infer a user s preferred usage mode for user device . According to an exemplary implementation context information includes user location date and time calendar information presence information usage history identified patterns of usage based on usage history user preferences mobile device sensor information e.g. biometric sensors accelerometer compass etc. address book information type of user device being used e.g. vehicle based computer etc. .

According to another embodiment user device and or network automatically tags a service event as belonging to or correlating with a particular mode. According to an exemplary embodiment the user may manually tag via user device a service event as relating to a particular mode. For example the user may receive a communication from a party that is not included in the user s contacts list and or the contact entry of the party is not correlated with a particular mode. In this way the user may manually tag the communication i.e. the service event to correlate with a particular mode e.g. personal etc. . Additionally the user may add the calling party to his her contacts list and indicate that this party pertains to a work mode or tag an already existing contact entry to indicate that the calling party relates to a work mode. In this way when the user receives subsequent communications from this party user device may assign the service event with the proper mode. User device may share mode tagging with network .

According to an exemplary embodiment network and or user device supplements service usage control and monitoring event tagging with context information. Additionally according to an exemplary implementation network and or user device may infer a tag to assign to a service event based on context information.

According to an exemplary implementation network organizes annotates searches and retrieves service usage control and monitoring information from a database of personalized stored service usage data. According to an exemplary implementation network learns user context user behavior and user preferences based on user history and patterns of usage. According to an exemplary implementation network may learn user behavior and preferences based on context information network based history user device based history etc. According to an exemplary implementation network allows a user to dynamically specify a service usage mode.

According to an exemplary embodiment network provides an authentication and authorization service for work mode usage. According to an exemplary implementation network uses various types of information e.g. network address associated with user device user device connectivity information user device location historical information etc. to streamline the authentication and authorization service.

While exemplary embodiments provided in this description may be implemented based on the use of a particular network architecture platform etc. such implementations are not intended to be restrictive or provide an exhaustive treatment as such. In other words the embodiments described herein may be implemented using other suitable network architectures platforms etc. which may not be specifically described.

The number of network elements and the configuration are exemplary. According to other embodiments network devices may include additional network elements fewer network elements different network elements and or differently arranged network elements than those illustrated in . For example network devices may include network elements that provide various services such as television service Internet service video streaming service mobile service landline telephone service and or a machine to machine service provide various assets etc. or alternatively access to one or more of these various services assets etc.

Also according to other embodiments one or more functions and or processes described as being performed by a particular network element may be performed by a different network element or some combination of network elements which may or may not include the particular network element.

According to other embodiments a single network element depicted in may be implemented as multiple network elements. Conversely multiple network elements depicted in may be implemented as a single network element. Referring to service event capture includes logic to capture information pertaining to a service event. According to an exemplary implementation a service event may include any operation performed by user device . For example service events may include accessing and using an application or a service receiving a communication transmitting a communication storing data etc. As a result of the occurrence of a service event service event capture obtains service event information. By way of example with respect to service events that are communication related service event capture may obtain session information. The session information may include information identifying parties to a communication the form of communication e.g. IM e mail telephone call video call etc. network address information correlated mode associated with the communication data and time duration of communication etc. According to an exemplary embodiment service event capture includes logic to perform deep packet inspection to obtain session information. According to other types of service events such as service events occurring on user device when user device is not connected to network e.g. executing and using an application accessing and viewing data stored on user device etc. service event capture may obtain service event information from user device . Service event capture may also capture or obtain context information.

Service event tagging includes logic to assign a mode to a service event. Service event tagging may assign the mode to a service event based on a network initiated tagging e.g. based on information from event correlation or a user initiated tagging.

Service event analytics includes logic to analyze information obtained by service event capture and other information pertaining to a service event e.g. information included in service management context information included in context etc. . Service event analytics may identify usage patterns based on usage history context information etc.

Service event routing includes logic to route a session event to a network element to provide a particular network response and or service. Depending on the type of session event and mode service event routing selects one or multiple network elements to provide an appropriate network response or service.

Service event reporting includes logic to generate reports pertaining to service usage. For example service event reporting may generate an end of the month report based on service usage information. A report may be available to users via service usage portal and or analysis by service event analytics .

Service usage portal includes logic to allow users to manage multi mode services. For example users may view service events and their correlated mode. Additionally users may reclassify service events from one mode to another set user preferences to be carried out by network devices create a mode to be managed by network devices delete a mode etc.

Service event correlation includes logic to correlate a service event to a mode. For example service event correlation may correlate a service event to a mode based on information from service event analytics . By way of example assume the user receives a business telephone call during the weekend when user device is in a personal mode. Thereafter the user conducts a teleconference with co workers. Service event correlation includes intelligence to infer that these service events pertain to a work mode.

Mode security includes logic to determine when to use security measures and to provide such security measures. For example a security measure may include encryption secured storage of data a secure connection e.g. a VPN connection a secure communication and or other form of security measure e.g. virus scanning of user device etc. . According to an exemplary implementation mode security may be invoked when user device operates in a particular mode. For example when user device operates in work mode mode security provides security measures for service events such as secure communications etc.

Mode controller includes logic to control network initiated mode selection. For example mode controller may use information from other network elements described e.g. service event correlation context etc. to switch user device to a mode or to assign a mode to a service event e.g. to assign a mode to a telephone call to be indicated by a mode indicator on user device etc. . According to an exemplary implementation signaling between user device and mode controller occurs so that mode controller is aware of the current mode s in which user device operates. Alternatively according to another exemplary implementation mode controller may identify the current mode s in which user device operates based on service event information context information etc. associated with a service event.

Mode monitor includes logic to monitor service events within a mode. For example mode monitor may identify abuse by a user when operating user device in a mode. As an example a work mode may support security measures and various services e.g. secure connections secure storage etc. that may be paid for by a user s employer. According to an exemplary scenario assume the user starts using secure connections while in work mode to conduct personal service events. Mode monitor identifies such activities as being outside of permitted behavior. Mode monitor may generate and provide a notification e.g. an alert a warning etc. to the user and or to other interested parties.

Context includes logic that manages and stores context information. For example context information may include user location date and time calendar information presence information usage history identified patterns of usage user preferences mobile device sensor information address book information type of user device being used e.g. vehicle based computer etc. etc. .

Audit log includes logic that stores logs of user activity pertaining to service usage portal . For example an audit log may include information identifying when and what activities a user performed via the network portal of service usage portal . By way of example a user may reclassify a service event from a personal mode to a work mode. Audit log stores information that indicates this user activity.

Service management includes logic that manages and stores various types of information for providing network services. For example the various types of information include service information e.g. types of services subscribed to by users including multi mode services user device profile information e.g. user device capabilities user device identifiers etc. network information e.g. session information types of connection used by users etc. subscriber information e.g. user profiles service usage history information and privacy permissions and preferences information e.g. including information pertaining to multi mode services . Service management may also include provisioning and charging logic.

Service management may include logic to disable user device in the event user device is lost or stolen. Mode controller and mode security may work cooperatively to provide efficient use of network security resources e.g. VPN in order to provide just in time security as needed while minimizing use of network security resources and to minimize user device battery drain . Service management may also include logic to manage and store various third party calendars and schedules associated with user device the end user or personas that then establish corresponding modes. Service management could provide an entry point and functional logic for non scheduled events that then establish corresponding modes for target devices e.g. priority QoS for a first responder device in the event of a civil emergency.

Processor may include one or multiple processors microprocessors data processors co processors application specific integrated circuits ASICs controllers programmable logic devices chipsets field programmable gate arrays FPGAs application specific instruction set processors ASIPs system on chips SoCs central processing units e.g. one or multiple cores microcontrollers and or some other type of component that interprets and or executes instructions and or data. Processor may be implemented as hardware e.g. a microprocessor etc. a combination of hardware and software e.g. a SoC an ASIC etc. may include one or multiple memories e.g. memory storage etc.

Processor may control the overall operation or a portion of operation s performed by device . Processor may perform one or multiple operations based on an operating system and or various applications or programs e.g. software . Processor may access instructions from memory storage from other components of device and or from a source external to device e.g. a network another device etc. .

Memory storage may include one or multiple memories and or one or multiple other types of storage mediums. For example memory storage may include one or multiple types of memories such as random access memory RAM dynamic random access memory DRAM cache read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM a static random access memory SRAM a single in line memory module SIMM a phase change memory PCM a dual in line memory module DIMM a flash memory and or some other type of memory. Memory storage may include a hard disk e.g. a magnetic disk an optical disk a magneto optic disk a solid state disk etc. a Micro Electromechanical System MEMS based storage medium and or a nanotechnology based storage medium. Memory storage may include drives for reading from and writing to the storage medium.

Memory storage may be external to and or removable from device such as for example a Universal Serial Bus USB memory stick a dongle a hard disk mass storage off line storage or some other type of storing medium e.g. a compact disk CD a digital versatile disk DVD a Blu Ray disk BD etc. . Memory storage may store data software and or instructions related to the operation of device .

Software may include an application or a program that provides a function and or a process. Software may include firmware. For example network device may include software e.g. a program or an application to implement a network element. Additionally for example user device may include software e.g. an application or a program to implement a process or a function display a user interface provide a feature of a mode communicate with network communicate with network device etc.

According to an exemplary embodiment software includes a virtual machine for each mode. For example user device may include a virtual machine pertaining to a personal mode a virtual machine pertaining to a work mode etc. The virtual machine provides in whole or in part the functionality appearance etc. pertaining to a mode. The virtual machine supporting a mode may be for example an isolated guest operating system installation within a normal host operating system e.g. the host operating system of user device . The software running inside a mode specific virtual machine may be limited to the resources and abstractions provided by the virtual machine. In this manner resources within user device e.g. storage networking applications operating in one mode e.g. work mode may be isolated from resources operating in another mode e.g. personal mode.

Communication interface permits device to communicate with other devices networks systems etc. Communication interface may include one or multiple wireless interfaces and or wired interfaces. Communication interface may include one or multiple transmitters receivers and or transceivers. Communication interface may operate according to one or multiple protocols standards and or the like. Communication interface may include location aware logic e.g. a GPS receiver etc. .

Input permits an input into device . For example input may include a keyboard a mouse a display a touchscreen a touchless screen a button a switch an input port a microphone speech recognition logic biometric logic e.g. fingerprint recognition voice recognition facial recognition etc. and or some other type input component. Output permits an output from device . For example output may include a speaker a display a touchscreen a touchless screen a light an output port and or some other type of visual auditory tactile etc. output component. Device may include other types of components. By way of example device may include a compass an accelerometer and or other types of sensors or components.

Device may perform processes and or functions as described herein in response to processor executing software stored by memory storage . By way of example instructions may be read into memory storage from another memory storage or from another device via communication interface . The instructions stored by memory storage may cause processor to perform one or more processes described herein. Alternatively for example according to other implementations device may perform one or more processes described herein based on the execution of hardware processor etc. .

According to an exemplary embodiment user device provides various user interfaces pertaining to the multiple modes of operation as described herein. For example according to an exemplary embodiment user device includes a user interface to permit a user to initiate a change of mode. For example the user may change the current mode of user device e.g. a personal mode to another mode e.g. a work mode or some other mode by selecting a graphical element e.g. an item from a menu an icon etc. . As previously described according to another exemplary embodiment network may initiate a mode change with respect to user device and or network services e.g. multi mode services .

According to an exemplary embodiment user device includes a user interface that indicates the mode in which user device is operating. In this way the user has a visual indication of the currently operating mode s . Additionally according to an exemplary embodiment user device provides other mode indicators such as auditory mode indicators and haptic mode indicators. For example auditory mode indicators may use various auditory cues i.e. sounds to indicate a mode and or a service event e.g. the occurrence of a service event that correlates with a mode. Additionally for example haptic mode indicators may use various haptic cues to indicate a mode and or a service event that correlates with a mode. Visual auditory haptic cues may vary based on the various characteristics such as speed intensity frequency duration tempo color etc.

According to an exemplary embodiment user device includes hotspot capabilities. According to an exemplary embodiment when user device operates in a work mode user device initiates a secured connection e.g. a VPN connection . According to an exemplary embodiment user device sets up and tears down a separate secure connection in an efficient manner to minimize user device resource utilization e.g. processing battery etc. . For example assume that user device is in a personal mode and connected to the Internet e.g. web surfing . Thereafter the user wishes to store some files on the company server at work. The user may initiate a work mode session in which user device automatically initiates a separate secure connection. For example user device maintains the connection to the Internet and also establishes a VPN connection. According to an exemplary implementation the VPN connection is secure and controlled. Additionally for example the usage may be paid for by the user s employer. According to an exemplary embodiment network and or user device performs monitoring usage logging and usage classification as described herein.

The user retrieves the files from a secure storage area which is resident on user device and uploads the files to the company server. After completing the upload the user indicates to stop work mode. User device automatically releases the secure connection in response to the user s indication to stop work mode.

According to the exemplary process described in network may use context information for various mode related network decision making. For example network may use context information to infer a mode and perform a network initiated mode change. Described below are some of the exemplary processes that may be performed when providing multi mode services. According to an exemplary embodiment user device may operate in a mode based on a user initiated event. is a flow diagram illustrating an exemplary process for a user initiated entrance into a mode of user device according to an exemplary embodiment. Process is performed by user device . For example processor of user device may execute software to perform the steps described.

Process begins in block with providing a user interface to select a user device mode among multiple user device modes. For example user device provides a user interface to allow a user to select a mode in which user device is to operate. By way of example the user interface may include a graphical element to permit the user to select a user device mode.

In block a request is received via the user interface to enter one of the user device modes. For example user device receives a user selection via the user interface of a user device mode.

In block a user device operates according to the selected user device mode. According to an exemplary embodiment user device includes virtual machine logic for each mode. User device selects and operates according to virtual machine logic that provides the capabilities and functionality associated with the selected user device mode.

In block a mode indicator that indicates the selected user device mode is provided. For example user device may provide a user interface that visually indicates to the user the mode in which user device operates. Additionally or alternatively user device may provide an auditory cue and or a haptic cue that indicates to the user the mode in which user device operates.

According to an exemplary embodiment user device stores a user preference that governs the type of mode indicator e.g. visual auditory haptic to be provided. According to an exemplary embodiment user device stores a user preference that governs the form of the mode indicator. For example the user may select a particular graphical element e.g. an icon etc. a particular auditory cue e.g. a sound clip etc. and or a particular haptic cue e.g. a vibrational pattern etc. . User device provides the mode indicator based on the stored user preference s .

Although illustrates an exemplary process to enter a mode process may include additional operations fewer operations and or different operations than those illustrated in and described herein. By way of example the user may select a mode by voice command. For example user device may include speech recognition logic that recognizes voice commands for selecting a mode to enter a mode to exit a mode etc. Alternatively user device may automatically enter a mode of operation based on context information. By way of example user device may identify the location of the user e.g. a work location and in response automatically enter a work mode. According to another example user device may enter and or exit a mode of operation based on other forms of context information such as calendar events date and time usage history user preferences etc.

According to an exemplary embodiment user device may operate in a mode or assign a mode to a service event in response to a network initiated event. By way of example user device may receive or transmit a communication e.g. a telephone call for beginning a teleconference which is work related. Network detects and analyzes the service event and recognizes that the service event is work related. Network causes user device to operate in a work mode. Additionally or alternatively network causes user device to assigns a work mode for the service event. According to another example the user may access the service usage portal of network and requests an access to service usage information pertaining to a work mode. In response assuming user device is not currently operating in a work mode network may cause user device to operate in the work mode.

Process begins in block with detecting a service event associated with a user device. For example service event capture detects a service event. By way of example assume that the user receives a telephone call from another party when the user is at work on a work day e.g. Wednesday . Additionally assume that the user has been doing some web surfing and user device is operating in a personal mode. Also assume that the telephone call is received around 1 05 p.m.

In block service event information is captured and analyzed. For example service event capture captures service event information. For example service event capture obtains session information pertaining to the telephone call and obtains context information. The context information includes information that identifies the user s location e.g. at work the day and time. Service event analytics analyzes the service event information. For example service event analytics uses usage history information to identify that the calling party is unknown e.g. the user has not previously placed a call to nor received a call from the calling party within a time window associated with the usage history information . Additionally service event analytics interprets the context information to determine that for example the user is at work on a Wednesday and the telephone call is received during normal working hours.

In block a classification of the service event is determined. For example service event correlation uses analysis information provided by service event analytics to correlate the service event to a mode. For example service event correlation determines that the mode associated with the telephone call should be correlated to a work mode and or that user device should be operating in the work mode. Service event tagging tags the telephone call as a work mode service event based on correlation information provided by service event correlation .

In block it is determined that whether the user device is in the correct mode and or the service event is correlated to the correct mode. For example service event correlation provides correlation information to mode controller . Service event correlation may also provide correlation information to mode monitor . In response mode controller identifies the mode in which user device operates and or the mode with which user device correlates the service event i.e. the telephone call . For example mode controller may signal user device to obtain this information.

If it is determined that the user device is not in the correct mode and or the service event is not correlated to the correct mode block NO then an entry into a mode and or a mode indicator for the service event is caused to occur on the user device block . For example mode controller causes user device to enter into a work mode and or to identify the telephone call as a work mode service event for service usage information purposes.

If it is determined that the user device is in the correct mode and or the service event is correlated to the correct mode block YES then process ends.

Although illustrates an exemplary process to enter a mode process may include additional operations fewer operations and or different operations than those illustrated in and described herein. For example network may provide other multi mode services pertaining to a service event. By way of example based on classifying that the telephone call is associated with a work mode network may provide the option to the user to upgrade e.g. re invite or reestablish the telephone call over a secure line. Additionally or alternatively service event routing may notify the provisioning and charging logic associated with service management . For example the telephone call may be paid for by the user s employer.

According to the scenario described above according to an exemplary embodiment the user may override a network initiated mode command. For example the user may exit the work mode during the telephone call and select the appropriate mode e.g. artist mode etc. . Additionally or alternatively the user may reclassify the service event e.g. the telephone call with the appropriate mode e.g. via service usage portal .

According to other scenarios network may initiate a mode of operation on user device during the onset of a communication. For example assume that user device receives a telephone call to join a teleconference e.g. from a conferencing service provider or a party known to be associated with work calls . According to such scenarios network may perform a network initiated mode invocation.

Process begins in block with receiving a request to log into a service event portal. For example user device establishes a connection with service usage portal . Service usage portal provides a user interface to allow the user to log into the service usage portal via user device .

In block authentication and authorization information is obtained. For example service usage portal prompts the user via a user interface to provide log in information e.g. user name and password . Alternatively the user may be prompted to utilize user device in the authentication and authorization process e.g. network device may generate and send a one time password to user device that must match user credentials requested by usage portal . The user provides login information which is received and verified by service usage portal . According to this example it is assumed that the login information is valid.

In block a request to view service usage information is received. For example service usage portal receives a user request to view service usage information pertaining to the user. According to an exemplary implementation the user request may indicate a mode to which the service usage information pertains e.g. a personal mode service usage information request . Alternatively the user request may not indicate a mode e.g. the user may access all service usage information pertaining to all modes .

In block service usage information is provided. For example service usage portal provides access to service usage information e.g. stored in service management . The user views the service usage information. For example service usage portal may provide user interfaces to allow the user to search for a particular service event such as by category e.g. telephone call usage of a service etc. by day date and or time by mode etc.

In block a request to reclassify a service event is received. For example service usage portal receives a request to change the mode associated with a service event. By way of example the service usage information may indicate that a service event is correlated with a personal mode and the user requests that the mode be changed to a soccer coach mode.

In block the mode associated with the service event is reclassified. For example service usage portal changes the mode classification associated with the service event in service management e.g. service usage history information etc. .

In block a log is generated. For example audit log generates a log of the user s activity in service usage portal which includes the reclassification of the service event.

Although illustrates an exemplary process to enter a mode process may include additional operations fewer operations and or different operations than those illustrated in and described herein. For example the service event portal may include a web service that allows any requesting application e.g. versus an end user application to access and use the portal. According to such an implementation the service event portal may include application programming interfaces APIs that facilitate integration with external systems. For example an enterprise system may access the service portal and access and use the service portal as set forth in process .

Process begins in block receiving a request to enter a work mode. For example user device receives a user request e.g. via a user interface a voice command etc. to enter into work mode operation. User device enters into work mode operation.

In block a request to establish a connection is received. For example user device receives a user request to establish a network connection.

In block a secure connection is established based on the mode of the user device. For example user device establishes a secure connection to a company network associated with the user s employer. According to an exemplary embodiment user device establishes the secure connection to the company network because user device is in the work mode.

In block work mode services are provided. For example network provides work mode services to the user. For example a work mode service may include a secured storage service that allows the user to store data on user device and or in network e.g. service management . Additionally for example a work mode service may include an encrypted communication service.

In block the work mode usage is monitored. For example mode monitor of network monitors the activity associated with user device . For example mode monitor may store policies pertaining to work mode usage and allowable service events that the user is afforded when user device is in a work mode. For example in relation to activities occurring within the company network mode monitor may not be able to monitor the user s activities. However for other service events mode monitor may monitor the activity of the user and apply and enforce employer policies.

In block a request to exit the work mode is received. For example user device receives a request to exit the work mode.

In block the secured connection is terminated and the work mode is exited. For example in response to the request to exit the work mode user device tears down the secured connection. Additionally user device exits the work mode. User device enters a default mode of operation based on a user preference if user device was not simultaneously operating in another mode.

Although illustrates an exemplary process to enter a mode process may include additional operations fewer operations and or different operations than those illustrated in and described herein.

According to an exemplary embodiment and according to the exemplary scenario described in relation to process network may offer multi mode services to third parties e.g. employers associated with company networks . For example a company network administrator may request of network to revoke work mode services associated with work mode operation of user device and work mode services provided by network to a user. This may occur for example when the user abuses the policies of a work mode. According to an exemplary embodiment mode controller may include logic to initiate a work mode revocation process that prevents user device operating in a work mode and prevents access to all work mode services. According to another example a company network administrator may request of network to temporarily or permanently disable user device or temporarily or permanently disable a work mode of user device . This may occur for example when the user reports that user device is lost. The disablement of user device and or a work mode may further assist in protecting sensitive information etc. According to an exemplary embodiment mode controller may include logic to initiate a disablement process. The disablement process may include deleting data stored on user device and or network uninstalling applications etc. and or other types of disablements pertaining to the functionality and capabilities of user device in a work mode.

The terms a an and the are intended to be interpreted to include one or more items. Further the phrase based on is intended to be interpreted as based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise. The term and or is intended to be interpreted to include any and all combinations of one or more of the associated items.

In addition while series of blocks have been described with regard to the processes illustrated in the order of the blocks may be modified according to other embodiments. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel. Additionally other processes described in this description may be modified and or non dependent operations may be performed in parallel.

The embodiments described herein may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and or hardware. For example a process or a function may be implemented as logic or as a component. This logic or this component may include hardware e.g. processor etc. a combination of hardware and software e.g. software a combination of hardware and firmware or a combination of hardware firmware and software. The embodiments have been described without reference to the specific software code since software can be designed to implement the embodiments based on the description herein.

Additionally embodiments described herein may be implemented as a non transitory storage medium that stores data and or information such as instructions program code data structures program modules an application etc. For example a non transitory storage medium includes one or more of the storage mediums described in relation to memory storage .

In the preceding specification various embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

In the specification and illustrated by the drawings reference is made to an exemplary embodiment an embodiment embodiments etc. which may include a particular feature structure or characteristic in connection with an embodiment s . However the use of the phrase or term an embodiment embodiments etc. in various places in the specification does not necessarily refer to all embodiments described nor does it necessarily refer to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments necessarily mutually exclusive of other embodiment s . The same applies to the term implementation implementations etc.

No element act or instruction described in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the embodiments described herein unless explicitly described as such.

