---

title: System and method for selecting and reserving airline seats
abstract: This invention relates to an electronic means by which people can select the exact seat or seats they want for any type of event or reserve an appointment for any activity. More specifically, a customer or a ticket re-seller or a venue operator can go, for example, to the internet and select the event or activity for which he wants a ticket or tickets or reserve a time and reserve and order the exact seat or seats or the time of his choosing directly online. The seat or seats may be displayed on a personal computing device, and additional information about the seat or seats may be displayed in response to the customer or ticket re-seller or venue operator placing a location indicator over a portion of the interactive seating display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08244561&OS=08244561&RS=08244561
owner: CEATS, Inc.
number: 08244561
owner_city: Tyler
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120208
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 953 279 filed Nov. 23 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 479 635 filed Jun. 5 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 885 839 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 244 727 filed Oct. 2 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 685 009 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 295 577 filed Apr. 22 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 454 361 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention relates to an electronic means by which people can select the exact seat or seats they want for any type of event or reserve an appointment for any activity such as a doctor or dentist appointment or even an appointment to have their car lubed. More specifically a customer or a ticket re seller or a venue operator can go for example to the internet and select the event or activity for which he wants a ticket or tickets or reserve a time and reserve and order the exact seat or seats or the time of his choosing directly online. The seat or seats or reserved time he selects is then removed from the inventory for that activity or event and made not available for any other buyer and such is so indicated by a graphical representation or other such indicator on the online map or picture representing availability of seating or time for that event. For an appointment reservation the user connects to the internet or other wide area network such as a bulletin board from his home or office computer and connects to a page that displays a reservation calendar with which he can interact such as to reserve a specific time period for himself.

In accordance with the present invention a remote location ticketing and reservation system for any venue comprises an internet or network compatible computer program constructed generally to afford access to a database or other record maintained in electronic form containing information about all sold and unsold seating for any specific venue or event and means and method by which a remote user through use of a computer terminal or other such device may access said database or other record and receive at his location through any computer terminal or other such device information about which specific seats remain available and then through a computer mouse or keyboard or other such input device select a specific seat or seats for that specific event and reserve such for himself for use during said event.

The inadequacies and inefficiencies of present ticketing and reservation systems are recognized and addressed through this invention. The rapid growth of the internet now makes it possible for anyone at his home or office to avail himself of the advantages of the instant invention through a simple internet or other wide area network connection.

Prior art makes a feeble attempt to address the inconvenience of ticket ordering. U.S. Pat. No. 5 797 126 1988 Helbling et al. describes a series of individual kiosks in wireless communication with a central station where a visitor can locate events of interest view an excerpt of scenes from that venue and purchase tickets. This falls far short of the instant invention since it still requires a user to physically visit a remote site to avail himself of the service. Additionally said prior art makes extensive use of what is called kiosks implying that unlike the instant invention it is only from his specialized machines that such services may be rendered.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 974 252 describes a more interactive theater attendance system where patrons are permitted two way communications between themselves and a broadcast center but this is still far from objectives of the instant invention and requires that persons be in attendance at the theater and further some attendant be present at the remote broadcast center. The instant invention is fully automated and other than the normal monitoring of any application for a wide area network requires no human attendance or intervention.

U.S. Pat. No. 3 427 438 describes a ticket vending system where sales of tickets can be recorded on a seating layout but again falls far short of the instantaneous update and automatic operation of the instant invention. U.S. Pat. No. 5 333 257 allows for a view from a seat but that is now common for internet applications where a hyperlink to any graphic is routinely provided and ancillary to and even unnecessary to the instant invention. Other prior art does nothing to make ticket ordering or seating reservations more readily available and does nothing to improve the information flow to prospective customers so that they may make a more informed decision about attending any given event.

Consider the traveler who has planned a vacation in say New York City and wants tickets for some Broadway show. Presently he has either to phone and accept someone else s definition of what constitutes best available or wait until he gets into town and seek out a scalper or reseller agency and he still isn t sure exactly what his seats offer.

The ticketing and reservation system of the present invention in one particular embodiment thereof includes a computer program operating on a server for a wide area network WAN generally described by the flow chart of and the accompanying code example which implements the instant invention in practice 

First when a user accesses the system means is provided to initialize the process and return to the user a menu from which he selects his venue of interest. This can be a selectable menu arranged by artist or date or time or specific theater or football team or baseball team or name or activity or any combination thereof such that the user is given sufficient information from which to make a decision. An example would be someone looking for the next event at a given theater at a time that starts at 7 00 pm. One of many possible series of computer instructions to perform this function is 

Referring to it will be seen that the operator of a venue implements the instant invention for purposes of allowing remotely located users to reserve specific seating for specific events . By doing so he initiates those certain actions necessary to display an internet web site to all online users . A prospective customer for the venues offering s logs onto the internet and acquires the aforesaid internet web site which implements the instant invention. He can be connected to the internet by any conventional means yet this by no means implies that the wide area network must be what is commonly referred to as the internet. Upon first contact by the prospective customer an inquiry is directed to the appropriate database which may be located concurrent with the primary server hosting the program for the instant invention or may be located remotely such as at the physical location of the venue asking for a return of information to the prospective customer of all appropriate information contained therein relative to his inquiry . The prospective customer indicates his desired seat or seats through conventional computer input means and directs that information back to the server hosting the code necessary to the implementation of the instant invention . Upon contact the server again makes an appropriate database query and returns to the prospective customer all pertinent information relating to his selection such as which seats are still available for the chosen performance airline flight boxing match etc. The prospective customer is then presented with a representation of all then available seating for his selected venue . From this representation the prospective customer makes his selection of a seat or seats by indicating such through a mouse click keyboard entry or other means such as but not limited to a touch screen. Simultaneously the server through the coding necessary to implement the instant invention creates a temporary customer identification that is used to associate this potential customer with this later selection and permit system use by multiple simultaneous users. Once the customer has made his seat selection he is asked for payment information . That information is processed through conventional internet or other electronic means and once the information and payment are verified the customer information as supplied in is made permanent and the seat or seats he has selected are removed from inventory and blocked from duplicate sale both graphically when presented to the next prospective customer and in the database where information for accounting and administrative purposes is retained. If the customer s payment information cannot be verified then he is given an opportunity to correct the information or start over with a new transaction. Upon verification of the customer s payment information he receives a confirmation of the transaction containing all appropriate reference information for his records.

Referring to it will be seen that for example a user in Houston is planning to vacation in New York and wishes to see a play at a dinner theater there that utilizes the present invention for ticketing and reservations . The user in Houston or in any other location worldwide connects to the internet in the conventional way and retrieves the appropriate web site through his graphical browser from a server located in say Anaheim Calif. . Through implementation of the instant invention the user is able to see the exact seating arrangement of the remote dinner theater and select the exact seat or seats he wants for the performance of his choice. Such additional information as is appropriate can be provided to the remote user to assist him in making an informed decision as to which seat or seats he wishes to occupy for this performance.

Referring to it will be seen that in that at the user selected venue all seats at table P and at table S have been previously taken and are so indicated by the graphical representation of an X over those seats. Our potential customer wants to seat a party of four at table s and so indicates by clicking his mouse on those four seats or by so indicating through an alternative standard computer input means. Once his payment method is verified his selected seats are removed from inventory and so indicated on the graphical representation by placing an X over those seats while retaining the X over those seats previously sold at table P and table S . The next prospective customer is advised that these seats are no longer available for this performance by the new graphical representation shown in that is his first viewing screen upon entry into the system. In the event that two prospective customers wish to reserve the exact same seat or seats that prospective customer who first receives validation of his payment method is given those seats while the other prospective customer is notified that while making his decision the seats he wants have already been sold and offers him a chance to select other seating.

Referring to one will see the screens presented to a user when he accesses the system and as he progresses through the process of selecting a specific seat or seats then reserves and pays for them. is where the first screen presented shows links to available performances for that selected venue . is the second screen and shows a view of the seating available for that venue with seats that have already been taken crossed off with an X . Our hypothetical user decides that he would like to have his party of four sit at table s and selects the four seats around that table by clicking on them with his mouse. As he moves his mouse over individual seats the seat number appears in the window at the bottom of his screen and when he clicks on a seat it is added to a running tally of the seats he has already taken . Only seats that have not previously been taken show up in the mouse over window . After completing his selections the user clicks on the Reserve Seats button and shows his next screen which asks him for his payment information . He enters the required information and again clicks the Reserve Seats button . is the next screen and it tells him that his payment method has been accepted or rejected and relates information about the transaction such as his transaction code and the receipt number that he can use as a ticket or as a voucher with which to redeem his ticket or tickets at the venue box office when he arrives for the performance. Finally shows the opening screen the next visitor to the system is presented with the same set of screens except that the seats reserved by our hypothetical user are marked off as already taken.

Referring to one will see one of many possible coding schemes making possible the results of the present invention.

Those having skill in the art to which the present invention pertains will now understand that there are virtually unlimited uses for the present invention. By way of example the present invention may be readily used to reserve specific seats on commercial airliners or reserve specific staterooms on a cruise ship as well as for reserving seats for any venue from community theater or little league baseball to major league sporting events.

The present invention has been described in sufficient detail to enable one skilled in the art to make and use the invention. Accordingly specific details which are readily available in the art or otherwise conventional have been omitted to prevent obfuscation of the essential features of the invention.

In view of the foregoing it will be understood that the present invention may be implemented in a variety of alternative methods but that all such implementations are deemed to be within the scope of the present invention which is to be limited only by the claims appended hereto 

