---

title: Systems and methods to uniquely identify assets in a federation
abstract: Some embodiments provide different frameworks that implement conflict avoidance systems and methods for ensuring uniqueness in identifying assets for different customers that are deployed to server capacity of one or more distributed platforms participating in a federation. Specifically, different frameworks are provided whereby the distributed platforms authorize use of a domain before configuring the domain to identify assets of a customer. A method performed in one such framework includes receiving a domain that is specified for identifying assets of a first customer belonging to a first distributed platform of the federation. The method determines whether the domain conflicts with a domain that is configured by a second distributed platform of the federation. The method then communicates with the first distributed platform (i) to configure the received domain when there is no conflict and (ii) to prevent the first distributed platform from configuring the received domain when there is a conflict.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08244915&OS=08244915&RS=08244915
owner: Edgecast Networks, Inc.
number: 08244915
owner_city: Santa Monica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120322
---
This application is a continuation of the United States nonprovisional patent application entitled System and Methods to Uniquely Identify Assets in a Federation filed on Sep. 29 2011 and having been assigned Ser. No. 13 248 552 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 166 108 which is a continuation of the United States nonprovisional patent application entitled System and Methods to Uniquely Identify Assets in a Federation filed on Sep. 15 2011 and having been assigned Ser. No. 13 234 015 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application 61 524 294 entitled Open Content Delivery Network Platform with Capacity Exchange filed Aug. 16 2011. The contents of U.S. Pat. No. 8 166 108 nonprovisional application Ser. No. 13 234 015 and provisional application 61 524 294 are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to a federation of independently operated distributed platforms and more specifically to uniquely identifying assets in the federation.

Content delivery networks CDNs have greatly improved the way content is transferred across data networks such as the Internet. A CDN accelerates the delivery of content by reducing the distance that content travels in order to reach a destination. To do so the CDN strategically locates surrogate origin servers also referred to as caching servers or edge servers at various points of presence POPs that are geographically proximate to large numbers of content consumers and the CDN utilizes a traffic management system to route requests for content hosted by the CDN to the edge server that can optimally deliver the requested content to the content consumer. Determination of the optimal edge server may be based on geographic proximity to the content consumer as well as other factors such as load capacity and responsiveness of the edge servers. The optimal edge server delivers the requested content to the content consumer in a manner that is more efficient than when origin servers of the content publisher deliver the requested content. For example a CDN may locate edge servers in Los Angeles Dallas and New York. These edge servers may cache content that is published by a particular content publisher with an origin server in Miami. When a content consumer in San Francisco submits a request for the published content the CDN will deliver the content from the Los Angeles edge server on behalf of the content publisher as opposed to the much greater distance that would be required when delivering the content from the origin server in Miami. In this manner the CDN reduces the latency jitter and amount of buffering that is experienced by the content consumer. The CDN also allows the content publisher to offload infrastructure configuration and maintenance costs while still having the ability to rapidly scale resources as needed. Content publishers can therefore devote more time to the creation of content and less time to the creation of an infrastructure that delivers the created content to the content consumers.

As a result of these and other benefits many different CDNs are in operation today. Edgecast Akamai Limelight and CDNetworks are some examples of operating CDNs. Each of the CDNs today operates independently of one another. However this independent operational model is less than ideal for the CDNs and the customers of the CDNs. The CDNs directly compete with one another to offer the same intrinsic services. To do so the CDNs duplicate server capacity and infrastructure where other CDNs have already deployed server capacity and infrastructure. The independent operational model also affects customers because a first CDN may optimally deliver content to a first region and a second CDN may optimally deliver content to a second region and a customer operating in both the first and second regions is forced to choose between the two CDNs or is forced to incur additional costs in obtaining services of both CDNs.

CDN federation is advocated by EdgeCast Networks Inc. of Santa Monica Calif. as a way to address these existing shortcomings and also as a way to provide dynamic CDN scalability provide a larger global CDN footprint and increase utilization of a CDN operator s server capacity by making some or all of that server capacity available to multiple CDN service providers who then in turn can realize advantages of a CDN without the need to develop the optimized software and without the need to deploy the infrastructure necessary for a CDN. It is envisioned that CDNs participating in the federation can exchange server capacity with one another such that CDNs with excess server capacity can avoid the sunk costs associated with server capacity going unused by selling that server capacity to CDNs that are in need of additional server capacity. The server capacity sold by a CDN seller can then be configured and used by a CDN buyer to serve assets for at least one of its customers. In this manner a customer s asset can be served using server capacity of two or more independently operated CDNs. It is further envisioned that participants in the federation can continue to independently manage and operate their networks with minimal change required to participate in the federation.

The CDN interoperation envisioned for the federation introduces issues and complexities that are not readily addressable with existing systems of the federation participants. One such issue is how to uniquely identify assets of customers that have been deployed to server capacity of different federation participants as a result of capacity sharing. Even though each CDN can manage how assets for its customers are identified within its internal platform once an asset is deployed from a first CDN to a second CDN the identification used by the first CDN to identify the asset may conflict with the identification the second CDN uses to identify an asset for a different customer. Conflicting identification of different assets that are deployed to the same CDN can result in delivery of the wrong asset or failed delivery of the asset.

To enable the envisioned federation systems and methods are needed to permit interoperation between the independently operated CDNs that participate in the federation. As part of the interoperation systems and methods are needed to uniquely identify different assets that are deployed to server capacity of different federation participants.

It is an object of the embodiments described herein to uniquely identify assets for different customers that have their assets deployed to one or more distributed platforms participating in a federation. It is further an object to ensure the unique identification of assets across the federation while enabling the distributed platforms to configure custom domains for use in identifying the assets of different customers irrespective of which servers of which distributed platforms the assets for the different customers are to be deployed to. In some embodiments the federation is the Open CDN platform conceived by Edgecast Networks Inc. and the federation participants include content delivery networks CDNs and other service providers or operators of distributed platforms.

To achieve these and other objects some embodiments provide different frameworks that implement conflict avoidance systems and methods for ensuring uniqueness in identifying assets for different customers where the assets are deployed to server capacity of one or more distributed platforms participating in the federation. Specifically different frameworks are provided whereby the distributed platforms authorize use of a domain before configuring the domain to identify assets of a customer. Authorization determines whether a domain specified for identifying assets of a first customer does not conflict with domains that have been already configured for use in identifying assets of other customers. Some embodiments perform granular authorization whereby the same domain may be authorized for use in identifying assets of two different customers when the assets of the customers are deployed to server capacity of different distributed platforms participating in the federation.

In a first framework a central conflict avoidance server is provided to authorize which domains may be configured for identifying assets of which customers. Before configuring the requested domain for use in identifying assets of a customer each distributed platform confirms with the conflict avoidance server that a requested domain is not conflicting with other domains already configured by the distributed platforms.

In a second framework one of the distributed platforms participating in the federation is designated to host the conflict avoidance server and thereby perform domain authorization for the other distributed platforms participating in the federation. In a third framework domain authorization is performed in a distributed manner whereby the administrative servers of each of the distributed platforms participating in the federation authorize configuration of a domain for assets that are to be deployed to server capacity of that distributed platform. In a fourth framework each distributed platform maintains a database for tracking the domains that have been configured for use in identifying assets deployed to that distributed platform and an authorization broker is provided to perform authorization on behalf of a requesting distributed platform.

In the following detailed description numerous details examples and embodiments for various frameworks to uniquely identify assets in a federation of independently operated distributed platforms are set forth and described. As one skilled in the art would understand in light of the present description these frameworks are not limited to the embodiments set forth and these frameworks may be practiced without some of the specific details and examples discussed. Also reference is made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific embodiments in which the frameworks can be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments can be used and structural changes can be made without departing from the scope of the embodiments herein described.

Various terms are defined to aid in the discussion below. The term federation refers to the interoperation of multiple independently operated distributed platforms that interoperate by exchanging capacity with one another such that a first distributed platform with excess capacity can make its excess capacity available for a fee or other exchange terms to a second distributed platform that is need of additional capacity. One example of a federation is the Open CDN platform that is conceived by Edgecast Networks Inc. of Santa Monica Calif. and that is further described in the U.S. provisional patent application 61 524 294 entitled Open Content Delivery Network Platform with Capacity Exchange filed Aug. 16 2011.

The term federation participant is used to describe a distributed platform that participates in the federation by 1 making its unused capacity available for other participants to purchase 2 acquiring capacity from another participant or 3 deploying assets to servers of another participant. A distributed platform need not participate in the federation at all times by buying selling or deploying assets to be a federation participant. Federation participants can include any content delivery network CDN operator any CDN service provider any provider of hosting caching or cloud services and any operator or service provider of a set of distributed servers. Some examples of federation participants include CDNs such as Edgecast Akamai Limelight CDNetworks and Minor Image. Other examples of federation participants include Amazon CloudFront Amazon EC2 AT T and Web.com.

The term domain refers to a domain name for identifying assets throughout the Internet and more specifically for identifying assets that are deployed to server capacity of the different federation participants. Domain names are used in conjunction with the Domain Name System DNS to resolve to Internet Protocol IP addresses that address the assets. As used herein domains may be comprised of a hierarchy of domains including top level domains lower level domains and sub domains. Domains may also include hostnames or fully qualified domain names. Some examples of domains as used herein include customer.com images.customer.com fms.customer1.1234.cd1.net and any other combination of domains sub domains and hostnames.

The term asset refers to a resource containing data that is produced by any content provider that is a customer of a federation participant. The asset may by HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP content video audio images text scripts and other content that is presentable or executable over a digital interface. By virtue of the capacity sharing provided by the federation an asset can be deployed by a first federation participant to server capacity of a second federation participant. Capacity sharing refers to the ability for the first federation participant to acquire some amount of server capacity from the second federation participant via the capacity exchange of the Open CDN platform described in the provisional patent application 61 524 294 or other trading or brokering mechanism that is envisioned for the federation. Deploying the asset then relates to the ability for the first federation participant to configure the acquired server capacity such that the asset of a customer belonging to the first federation participant is wholly or partially served using the acquired server capacity of the second federation participant. Configuring server capacity refers to configuring resources of one or more servers that are operated by a particular distributed platform to serve assets to end users that request those assets. It should be apparent that the federation via capacity sharing allows the first federation participant 1 to offload the serving of a customer s asset such that the asset is served to requesting end users wholly from server capacity of the second federation participant 2 to partially offload the serving of a customer s asset such that the asset is served to requesting end users from servers that are operated by the first federation participant and the second federation participant or 3 to partially offload the serving of a customer s asset such that the asset is served to requesting end users from servers of the second federation participant and servers of a third federation participant.

Capacity sharing however brings about issues for how to uniquely identify assets that are deployed by a first federation participant to server capacity of at least a second federation participant. When a federation participant independently operates it is able to control how the assets of its customers are identified. Ordinarily a federation participant ensures unique identification for its customers assets by assigning a unique domain name to each customer that is then used as part of a Uniform Resource Locator URL to uniquely identify the location or assets for each of the customers. The unique domain name also referred to herein as a CDN domain refers to a domain name that is assigned to a customer of a particular federation participant. fms.xyz.fedparticipantcdn.net 00xyz is an example of a CDN domain with fms representing a service type xyz representing a unique account number that is assigned to a customer of the particular federation participant fedparticipantcdn.net and 00xyz representing a content access point that is a point of reference to an origin server that may be operated by the particular federation participant or the customer. It should be apparent that different federation participants may assign differently formatted CDN domains to their respective customers with additional or fewer prefixes for the assigned domain. The URL identifies a location or an asset of the customer using the assigned CDN domain. For example the URL http fms.xyz.fedparticipantcdn.net 00xyz news 2011 index.html identifies http as the protocol fms as the service type xyz as the customer fedparticipantcdn.net as the federation participant i.e. CDN 00xyz as the content access point and news 2011 index.html as the path for identifying the location of the index.html asset. It should be apparent that the URL can include more or less parameters such as query strings and additional directories in the path as some examples.

To make the identification of a location or asset more user friendly many federation participants provide what is referred to herein as an edge canonical name or edge CNAME . The edge CNAME is used to mask the assigned CDN domain to a more user friendly domain. The edge CNAME usually allows a customer to specify a custom domain for identifying a location or assets of the customer. For example an edge CNAME domain can be used to mask the CDN URL http fms.xyz.fedparticipantcdn.net 00xyz news 2011 index.html to http www.mydomain.com news 2011 index.html with the domain www.mydomain.com serving as an alias to the assigned CDN domain fms.xyz.fedparticipant.net 00xyz . The edge CNAME contains a CDN aspect and a Domain Name System DNS aspect. The CDN aspect involves a configuration for the federation participant that allows its servers to identify a location or an asset based on the specified domain for the edge CNAME. Continuing the above example if a server of the CDN receives an asset request for www.mydomain.com news 2011 story1.html the server knows that the request is actually for an asset of the customer assigned to CDN domain fms.xyz.fedparticipantcdn.net 00xyz and the correct asset story1.html is then served. If a directory path has been specified a further configuration modification may automatically rewrite the URL to point to the appropriate folder. In the above example a URL rewrite rule may be specified such that a request for www.mydomain.com 2011 movie.flv is automatically rewritten to fms.xyz.fedparticipant.net 00xyz movies 2011 movie.flv . The DNS aspect requires that a DNS server of the customer be configured to recognize the alias for the CDN URL. This usually includes insertion of a CNAME record to the DNS server of the customer. By using the edge CNAME end user requests for the customers assets can then be made to point to the domain that is custom specified for the edge CNAME instead of the more verbose CDN domain.

When a customer of a particular federation participant specifies a domain to use in conjunction with an edge CNAME the particular federation participant performs a conflict avoidance check to ensure that no other assets for customers of the particular federation participant are identified using the same domain. Otherwise when the same domain is used to identify assets for different customers a conflict arises that could result in a server serving the asset of the wrong customer or failing to serve the requested asset.

The ability to share capacity and the ability to deploy assets for a customer of a first federation participant to server capacity of a second federation participant renders the independent conflict avoidance checks performed by each of the federation participants deficient for ensuring unique identification of assets across the federation. This is because each federation participant is only aware of the domains it has configured for identifying assets of its native customers. A first federation participant cannot ensure that a domain configured to uniquely identify a first asset of a first customer will not conflict with a domain configured by a second federation participant to identify a second asset of a different customer when the first asset is to be deployed to server capacity of the second federation participant.

In assets of the customer can be requested using either the custom domain www.customer1.com or the CDN assigned domain 001.cdn1.com because the assets are strictly deployed to server capacity of the first CDN federation participant . Similarly assets of the customer can be requested using either the custom domain www.customer1.com or the CDN assigned domain abc.001.cdn2.com because the assets are strictly deployed to server capacity of the second CDN federation participant . In summary there is no conflict as a result of the same domain being used to identify different customer assets because the assets are deployed to server capacity of different federation participants. The lack of conflict is illustrated by the end user submitting at an HTTP GET request to request the asset http www.cusomter1.com logo.gif from the customer of the first CDN federation participant . The customer via DNS resolution points at the request to the first CDN federation participant . The request is then submitted at to the first CDN federation participant . The first CDN federation participant contains a single non conflicting edge CNAME configuration that aliases the www.customer1.com domain specified in the request to 001.cdn1.com and the logo.gif asset for the customer is then delivered at to the requesting end user. Similarly when the end user submits an HTTP GET request to request the asset http www.cusomter1.com logo.gif from the customer of the second CDN federation participant the customer via DNS resolution points the request to the second CDN federation participant . The request is then submitted to the second CDN federation participant . The second CDN federation participant contains a single non conflicting edge CNAME configuration that aliases the www.customer1.com domain specified in the request to abc.001.cdn2.com and the logo.gif asset for the customer is then delivered to the requesting end user.

In the first CDN federation participant acquires some capacity of the second CDN federation participant via the capacity exchange of the Open CDN platform and the asset for customer is deployed to the servers of the second federation participant . As a result the duplicate usage of the www.customer1.com domain will produce conflict in the second CDN federation participant . In this figure the assets of customers and are no longer uniquely identified as both customers and utilize the same domain as an alias to identify different assets at the second CDN federation participant . This can result in the incorrect asset being delivered or failed delivery of the requested asset. As shown an HTTP GET request for the asset GET http www.customer1.com logo.gif pointed to the second CDN federation participant by either the customer or the first CDN federation participant may result in the logo.gif asset of the customer being delivered to the requesting end user instead of the logo.gif asset of the customer being delivered. This is because the second CDN federation participant has configured the www.customer1.com domain to alias to the abc.001.cdn2.com CDN domain and not the 001.cdn1.com domain. Overwriting or updating the configuration of the second CDN federation participant to alias the www.customer1.com domain to the 001.cdn1.com domain will then cause only the asset for customer to be served by servers of the second CDN federation participant and the asset for customer will no longer be served.

To alleviate these and other issues relating to the unique identification of assets across a federation of distributed platforms some embodiments provide different frameworks that implement conflict avoidance systems and methods for uniquely identifying the assets that have been deployed to server capacity of one or more federation participants. More specifically the frameworks ensure that when a distributed platform configures a domain alias as part of an edge CNAME to identify assets of a particular customer that the configured domain has not already been configured for use in identifying assets of another customer of the federation. In some embodiments the frameworks prevent the same domain from being configured for use in identifying assets of any two customers of distributed platforms participating in the federation. In some embodiments the frameworks prevent the same domain from being configured for use in identifying assets of two customers when the assets are deployed to server capacity of the same one or more distributed platforms. In some such embodiments the same domain can still be used to uniquely identify assets of different customers when the assets of the customers are deployed to server capacity of non conflicting distributed platforms similar to the scenario presented with reference to . In still some other embodiments the frameworks identify that a same domain has been configured for use in identifying assets of two different customers and the frameworks cause the servers deployed with the assets to ignore or otherwise prevent the configuration for one of the customers from impacting the operation of the other configuration.

Each set of servers may include caching mirroring streaming or processing servers as some examples. Each distributed platform and is also illustrated with a traffic management service and an administrative server. Though a single administrative server is shown for each distributed platform it should be apparent that each administrative server may be representative of multiple physical or virtual servers that operate to provide the functionality that is described herein.

The traffic management service may be implemented using any set of DNS servers or other traffic management system e.g. Anycast routing . The traffic management service routes requests for assets to the server that can optimally serve the assets. In some embodiments the traffic management service may identify the optimal server for a specific asset request from the sets of servers of first and second federation participants when the asset is deployed to those sets of servers.

The administrative server performs the command and control functions configuration monitoring reporting etc. for the distributed platform. In the federation the administrative servers are communicably coupled to one another using a static or dynamic Internet based connection that is preferably secured or encrypted. The coupling and the intercommunication resulting from the coupling enables capacity sharing i.e. buying selling and configuring of capacity and enables the ability to deploy assets to server capacity of one or more foreign distributed platforms i.e. federation participants . In some embodiments the intercommunication is enabled by an Open CDN application programming interface API and or connector agent that is integrated with each distributed platform. Core functions for the traffic management service administrative server Open CDN API and connector agent are further described in the referenced provisional patent application 61 524 294.

In the framework of the administrative servers are also communicably coupled to the conflict avoidance server using a dynamic or static connection that is preferably secure or encrypted. The administrative servers are configured to utilize the coupled connection to the conflict avoidance server to authorize configuration of a domain. Authorization prevents the same domain from being configured when that domain is to be used as an alias to identify assets for different customers that are deployed to the same distributed platform. In some embodiments the conflict avoidance server allows the same domain to be configured to identify assets for different customers when the assets for each customer are deployed to server capacity of different distributed platforms. In some embodiments the conflict avoidance server includes a database that stores the domains that have been configured for customers of the distributed platforms and . By referencing the database when an administrative server submits a request to configure a domain the conflict avoidance server can determine whether the domain will or will not conflict with already configured domains.

Authorization is typically performed at the time a customer of one of the distributed platforms or attempts to configure an edge CNAME with a custom domain. presents a process performed by an administrative server of a distributed platform operating in the framework of to authorize configuration of a domain for use in identifying assets that are deployed to server capacity of one or more distributed platforms participating in the federation in accordance with some embodiments.

The process begins by receiving at a customer specified domain as part of a customer configuring an edge CNAME. The process communicably couples at with the conflict avoidance server if a connection does not already exist between the administrative server and the conflict avoidance server . In some embodiments each administrative server is configured with the protocols and credentials needed to communicably couple with the conflict avoidance server . Through the established connection the process submits at a request to authorize the configuration of the customer specified domain. In some embodiments the request also identifies which servers or which distributed platforms the asset that is to be identified by the specified domain will be deployed to. This additional information allows the conflict avoidance server to perform more granular authorization. Specifically the conflict avoidance server can authorize the same domain to be used to identify assets of different customers when the assets for each customer are deployed to server capacity of different distributed platforms. The request may be encapsulated in any Internet Protocol IP packet.

The process then awaits at a response from the conflict avoidance server . If in the response the conflict avoidance server authorizes the configuration of the specified domain the process configures at the edge CNAME with the specified domain for use in uniquely identifying the assets of a particular customer. The particular customer is optionally requested to make any necessary configuration changes to its DNS servers and the process ends. If in the response the conflict avoidance server prevents the specified domain from being configured the process requests at the customer to specify a different domain for the edge CNAME and the process restarts with the new domain or the process ends.

In some embodiments the process is modified by having the administrative server perform an internal uniqueness determination for the customer specified domain before performing the steps . Specifically the administrative server first determines that the customer specified domain received at is internally unique with respect to domains that the administrative server has already configured for identifying assets of other customers in the same distributed platform. Should the customer specified domain be unique within the distributed platform of the administrative server then the administrative server performs steps of process .

The process determines at whether the received domain is already configured for use by another customer of at least one distributed platform that participates in the federation. To perform the determination the process compares the specified domain in the submitted request with domains that have already been configured and that are entered to the conflict avoidance server s database. In some embodiments the determination at step is more granular. Specifically the process determines whether the assets that are identified by the received domain are to be deployed to the same distributed platform that already has the specified domain configured for use in identifying assets of a different customer. Accordingly there is no conflict for the more granular determination when the same domain is used to identify assets of different customers that are deployed to different distributed platforms.

If the specified domain has not yet been configured the process authorizes at the requesting administrative server to configure the domain by submitting a response so indicating to the administrative server. The process enters at the specified domain to its database to prevent future configuration of the same domain for use in identifying assets of another customer and the process ends. Otherwise a notification is sent at to the administrative server to require the particular customer to specify a different domain and the process ends.

In some embodiments of the framework of the conflict avoidance server passively monitors domains that are configured by the various federation participants. In some such embodiments the conflict avoidance server does not actively prevent a domain from being configured to identify assets of different customers. However when a conflict is detected the conflict avoidance server disables the latter specified configuration from taking effect in the distributed platforms that the configuration creates conflict in. This may include communicating with the administrative server or servers of the distributed platform in which the conflict occurs to cause the administrative server or servers to ignore or otherwise disable the latter specified configuration. In some embodiments the latter specified configuration is ignored or otherwise disabled by modifying routing functions of the traffic management servers for the distributed platform in which the conflict occurs to redirect ignore or submit error messages to end users that request assets identified by the latter specified domain. A notification may then be provided to the customer to take further action to remediate the conflict.

Each administrative server and maintains a database for the domains that have already been configured for identifying assets deployed to the distributed platform in which the administrative server operates. This includes assets for customers that are native and or foreign to the distributed platform.

The administrative server checks its internal database to determine that the specified domain has not yet been configured to identify assets for any customer in the distributed platform . The administrative server then responds with a confirmation notification to the administrative server .

The administrative server also checks its internal database and determines that the specified domain has already been configured for use in identifying assets of another customer in the distributed platform . Due to the conflict the administrative server responds to the administrative server with a rejection notification that prevents the administrative server from configuring the www.mydomain.com domain to identify assets of the customer in the distributed platform . As a result the customer is required to select a different domain.

In some embodiments of the framework of each administrator server passively monitors the domains that other administrative servers have configured. In some such embodiments a particular administrative server does not actively prevent the other administrative servers from configuring domains that conflict with those already configured by the particular administrative server. Instead the particular administrative server disables the conflicting domains configured by other administrative servers from impacting the servers that are in the same distributed platform as the particular administrative server. This may include modifying routing functions of the traffic management servers of the distributed platform to redirect ignore or submit error messages to end users that request assets identified by the conflicting domain. Alternatively each of the servers can intelligently monitor the configurations specified for it and as a result ignore or disable a latter specified conflicting configuration from impacting operation of the server.

Many of the above described processes and components are implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a computer readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more computational element s such as processors or other computational elements like ASICs and FPGAs they cause the computational element s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Server computer and computing machine are meant in their broadest sense and can include any electronic device with a processor that executes instructions stored on computer readable media or that are obtained remotely over a network connection. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. Furthermore almost everywhere that a server is identified as a component of the embodied invention it is understood that the server may be a single physical machine or a cluster of multiple physical machines performing related functions virtualized servers co resident on a single physical machine or various combinations of the above.

The bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of the computer system . For instance the bus communicatively connects the processor with the read only memory the system memory and the permanent storage device . From these various memory units the processor retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the invention. The processor is a processing device such as a central processing unit integrated circuit graphical processing unit etc.

The read only memory ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by the processor and other modules of the computer system. The permanent storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when the computer system is off. Some embodiments of the invention use a mass storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as the permanent storage device .

Other embodiments use a removable storage device such as a flash drive as the permanent storage device Like the permanent storage device the system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device the system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory RAM . The system memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some embodiments the processes are stored in the system memory the permanent storage device and or the read only memory .

The bus also connects to the input and output devices and . The input devices enable the user to communicate information and select commands to the computer system. The input devices include alphanumeric keypads including physical keyboards and touchscreen keyboards pointing devices also called cursor control devices . The input devices also include audio input devices e.g. microphones MIDI musical instruments etc. . The output devices display images generated by the computer system. The output devices include printers and display devices such as cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD .

Finally as shown in bus also couples computer to a network through a network adapter not shown . In this manner the computer can be a part of a network of computers such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or a network of networks such as the internet. For example the computer may be communicably coupled through the network to an ingest server mid tier server edge server content provider streaming server or end user device.

As mentioned above the computer system may include one or more of a variety of different computer readable media. Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic and or solid state hard drives ZIP disks read only and recordable blu ray discs any other optical or magnetic media and floppy disks.

While the invention has been described with reference to numerous specific details one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the invention can be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit of the invention. Thus one of ordinary skill in the art would understand that the invention is not to be limited by the foregoing illustrative details but rather is to be defined by the appended claims.

