---

title: System for writing, interpreting, and translating three-dimensional (3D) scenes
abstract: Methods and systems for writing, interpreting, and translating three-dimensional (3D) scenes are provided. An example method may involve accessing data associated with a three-dimensional (3D) scene that includes one or more objects of the 3D scene and one or more rendering effects for the one or more objects. Requests for assets and instructions associated with rendering the one or more objects based on the data associated with the 3D scene may be determined and sent to a server. Additionally, the method may include receiving from the server assets and instructions that facilitate rendering the one or more objects based on the one or more rendering effects. According to the method, the one or more objects of the 3D scene may be rendered based on the received instructions and the received assets.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08817021&OS=08817021&RS=08817021
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08817021
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121004
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 558 911 filed on Nov. 11 2011 the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

In computer graphics three dimensional 3D modeling involves generation of a representation of a 3D surface of an object. The representation may be referred to as a 3D object data model and can be rendered or displayed as a two dimensional image via 3D rendering or displayed as a three dimensional image. 3D object data models represent a 3D object using a collection of points in 3D space connected by various geometric entities such as triangles lines curved surfaces etc. Various techniques exist for generating 3D object data models utilizing point clouds and geometric shapes for examples.

Being a collection of data 3D models can be created by hand algorithmically or by scanning objects for example. As an example an artist may manually generate a 3D image of an object that can be used as the 3D model. As another example a given object may be scanned from a number of different angles and the scanned images can be combined to generate the 3D image of the object. As still another example an image of an object may be used to generate a point cloud that can be algorithmically processed to generate the 3D image.

3D object data models may include solid models that define a volume of the object or may include shell or boundary models that represent a surface e.g. the boundary of the object. Because an appearance of an object depends largely on an exterior of the object boundary representations are common in computer graphics.

3D models are used in a wide variety of fields and may be displayed using a number of different types of interfaces. Example interfaces may provide functionality to enable interaction between a user and the 3D models.

In one example aspect a method is provided that involves accessing data associated with a three dimensional 3D scene wherein the data associated with the 3D scene comprises one or more objects of the 3D scene and one or more rendering effects for the one or more objects. The method may also include determining one or more requests for assets and instructions associated with rendering the one or more objects based on the data associated with the 3D scene and sending the one or more determined requests for assets and instructions to a server. Additionally the method may include receiving from the server assets and instructions that facilitate rendering the one or more objects based on the one or more rendering effects. The assets may include one or more shaders for rendering the one or more objects based on the one or more rendering effects. According to the method the one or more objects of the 3D scene may be rendered based on the received instructions and the received assets.

In another example aspect a computer readable medium having stored therein instructions that when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform functions is provided. The functions may involve accessing data associated with a three dimensional 3D scene wherein the data associated with the 3D scene comprises one or more objects of the 3D scene and one or more rendering effects for the one or more objects. The functions may also include determining one or more requests for assets and instructions associated with rendering the one or more objects based on the data associated with the 3D scene and sending the one or more determined requests for assets and instructions to a server. Additionally the functions may include receiving from the server assets and instructions that facilitate rendering the one or more objects based on the one or more rendering effects. The assets may include one or more shaders for rendering the one or more objects based on the one or more rendering effects. According to the functions the one or more objects of the 3D scene may be rendered based on the received instructions and the received assets.

In still another example aspect a system is provided that involves an input component a translation component and a rendering component. The input component may be configured to access a three dimensional 3D scene document to determine information associated with one or more objects of a 3D scene and one or more rendering effects for the one or more objects based on data within the 3D scene document. The translation component may be configured to determine one or more requests for assets and instructions associated with rendering the one or more objects based on the data within the 3D scene document and may be configured to send the one or more requests for assets and instructions to a server. The rendering component may be configured to render the 3D scene having the one or more objects based on assets and instructions received from the server. The assets may include one or more shaders for rendering the one or more objects based on the one or more rendering effects.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the figures and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying figures which form a part hereof. In the figures similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description figures and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure may disclose inter alia methods and systems for writing interpreting and translating three dimensional 3D scenes. An example system may include components for interpreting data associated with a 3D scene and converting the data into instructions for rendering a 3D scene. In some examples a structure of a 3D scene document may define how to render a scene by defining at a high level objects within the scene and rendering effects associated with the objects. The 3D scene document may be used as a standard way to describe materials of objects in a 3D scene and enable automatic retrieval of assets to use for consistently rendering the materials across multiple 3D scenes. For example a 3D scene document may be translated into requests for assets and instructions that when combined may be executed to create 3D graphics in a web browser. In one instance the received instructions may be provided to an application programming interface such as WebGL or OpenGL ES to facilitate rendering a 3D scene.

Referring now to the figures illustrates an example system for object data modeling. The system includes an input source coupled to a server and a database . The server is also shown coupled to the database and an output target . The system may include more or fewer components and each of the input source the server the database and the output target may comprise multiple elements as well or each of the input source the server the database and the output target may be interconnected as well. Thus one or more of the described functions of the system may be divided up into additional functional or physical components or combined into fewer functional or physical components. In some further examples additional functional and or physical components may be added to the examples illustrated by .

Components of the system may be coupled to or configured to be capable of communicating via a network not shown such as a local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. a Wi Fi network or Internet for example. In addition any of the components of the system may be coupled to each other using wired or wireless communications. For example communication links between the input source and the server may include wired connections such as a serial or parallel bus or wireless links such as Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.11 may refer to IEEE 802.11 2007 IEEE 802.11n 2009 or any other IEEE 802.11 revision or other wireless based communication links.

The input source may be any source from which a 3D object data model may be received. In some examples 3D model acquisition shape and appearance may be achieved by working with vendors or manufacturers to scan objects in 3D. For instance structured light scanners may capture images of an object and a shape of the object may be recovered using monochrome stereo cameras and a pattern projector. In other examples a high resolution DSLR camera may be used to capture images for color texture information. In still other examples a raw computer aided drafting CAD set of drawings may be received for each object. Thus the input source may provide a 3D object data model in various forms to the server . As one example multiple scans of an object may be processed into a merged mesh and assets data model and provided to the server in that form.

The server includes a model builder an object data model processor a semantics and search index a graphics library a shader application a materials application and an object data model renderer viewer . Any of the components of the server may be coupled to each other. In addition any components of the server may alternatively be a separate component coupled to the server . The server may further include a processor and memory including instructions executable by the processor to perform functions of the components of the server for example.

The model builder receives the mesh data set for each object from the input source which may include a data set defining a dense surface mesh geometry and may generate an animated model of the object in 3D. For example the model builder may perform coherent texture unwrapping from the mesh surface and determine textures of surfaces emulated from the geometry.

The object data model processor may also receive the mesh data set for each object from the input source and generate display meshes. For instance the scanned mesh images may be decimated e.g. from 5 million to 120 000 surfaces utilizing texture preserving decimation. Texture map generation can also be performed to determine color texture for map rendering. Texture map generation may include using the mesh data sets H that have colors but no ultraviolet UV unwrapping to generate a mesh D with UV unwrapping but no colors. As an example for a single output texture pixel of an image processing may include for a given point in UV determine a triangle in the mesh s UV mapping D and using triangle local coordinates move to an associated 3D point on the mesh. A bidirectional ray may be cast along the triangle s normal to intersect with the mesh H and color normal and displacement may be used for an output. To generate an entire texture image each pixel in the image can be processed.

The semantics and search index may receive captured images or processed images that have been decimated and compressed and may perform texture resampling and also shape based indexing. For example for each object the semantics and search index may index or label components of the images e.g. per pixel as having a certain texture color shape geometry attribute etc. The semantics and search index may receive the 3D object data model file or files comprising the 3D object data model from the model builder or the object data model processor and may be configured to label portions of the file or each file individually with identifiers related to attributes of the file.

In some examples the semantics and search index may be configured to provide annotations for aspects of the 3D object data models. For instance an annotation may be provided to label or index aspects of color texture shape appearance description function etc. of an aspect of a 3D object data model. Annotations may be used to label any aspect of an image or 3D object data model or to provide any type of information. Annotations may be performed manually or automatically. In examples herein an annotated template of an object in a given classification or category may be generated that includes annotations and the template may be applied to all objects in the given classification or category to apply the annotations to all objects.

The graphics library may include a WebGL or OpenGL mesh compression to reduce a mesh file size for example. The graphics library may provide the 3D object data model in a form for display on a browser for example. In some examples a 3D object data model viewer may be used to display images of the 3D objects data models. The 3D object data model viewer may be implemented using WebGL within a web browser or OpenGL for example.

The shader application may be configured to apply a shader to portions of the 3D object data model file or files of the 3D object data model according to the indexes of the file as labeled by the semantics and search index to generate a 3D image. The shader application may be executed to apply a shader from a number of shaders according to the indexes of the file. The shader may include information related to texture color appearance etc. of a portion of the 3D image.

In one example the shader application may be executed to render an image with shading attributes as defined by indexes of the files. For example objects with multiple surfaces may have different attributes for each surface and the shader application may be executed to render each surface accordingly.

The materials application may be configured to apply a material to portions of the 3D object data model file or to files of the 3D object data model according to the indexes of the file as labeled by the semantics and search index to generate a 3D image. The materials application may be executed to apply a material from a number of materials according to the indexes of the file. The materials application may apply any material such as leather metal wood etc. so as to render an appearance of a portion of the 3D image.

In one example the materials application may access a database that includes information regarding a number of reference materials e.g. brass fur leather and objects with multiple materials may be separated into distinct portions. As an example a hood on a car may include a hood ornament and the hood may be painted while the ornament may have a chrome finish. The materials application and the shader application can be executed to identify two separate materials e.g. the painted hood and the chrome hood ornament and render each material with an appropriate shader.

The object data model renderer viewer may receive the 3D object data model file or files and execute the shader application and the materials application to render a 3D image.

The database may store all data sets for a 3D object data model in any number of various forms from raw data captured to processed data for display.

The output target may include a number of different targets such as a webpage on the Internet a search engine a database etc. The output target may include a 3D object data model viewer that enables product advertisements or product searches based on the 3D object data model.

In examples herein the system may be used to acquire data of an object process the data to generate a 3D object data model and render the 3D object data model for display.

The client device includes an object data model renderer viewer a shader application and a materials application . The object data model renderer viewer the shader application and the materials application may all be configured as described with respect to the object data model renderer viewer the materials application and the shader application of the server of .

In some examples the client device may receive the 3D object data model file or files from the server and render a 3D image of the object by executing the shader application and the materials application . When executing the shader application and the materials application the client device may access separate databases to retrieve appropriate shader and material information to apply to the image access the server to receive appropriate shader and material information from the shader application and the materials application or may store information locally regarding the appropriate shader and materials information to apply. In other examples the server may render a 3D image of the object and stream the 3D image to the client device for display.

As described in some examples the 3D object data model may include various forms of data such as raw captured image data mesh data processed data etc. Data of the 3D object data model may be encoded and compressed so as to store information related to 3D geometry of an object associated with information related to appearance of the object for transmission and display within a web browser or application on a device. In one example data of the 3D object data model may be compressed by initially encoding a triangle mesh representing the 3D object as a list including a plurality of vertices and a plurality of indices. Each vertex in the list may have several arbitrary parameters associated with the vertex including but not limited to position surface normal and texture coordinates. The triangle indices may be stored in a 16 bit unsigned integer format and vertex attributes may be stored in a 32 bit floating point format. The 32 bit floating point format vertex attributes may be reduced to 15 bits. In instances in which compressed data is for a version of a web browser or an application that does not have the ability to decompress dictionary encoded data a delta compression may be used to store differences between the triangle indices and vertex attributes either in an array of structures layout or a transposed layout. After delta compression post delta data may be ZigZag encoded e.g. using open source Protocol Buffer library available from Google Inc. . Encoding may follow the format ZigZag x x15 with a corresponding decoding during decompression to follow the format UnZigZag x x 1 x 1 . ZigZag encoding may be followed by multi byte character encoding using UTF 8 encoding. Finally the UTF 8 encoded data may be compressed using GNU Gzip or bzip2 to generate a compressed 3D object data model file.

The compressed copy of the 3D object data model file may be stored in a database such as the database in in the server or the client device for example. In some examples the compressed 3D object data model file may be provided by the server to the client device in response to a request from the client device . If using a web browser to view the 3D object data model file the client device may decompress the compressed 3D object data model file according to Java instructions provided in the object browser web page. A local copy of the object browser web page and a local copy of the uncompressed searchable data of the 3D object data model file can be stored in a local memory of the client device . The client device may display exemplary screenshots of an initial default view of a 3D object based on the searchable data of the 3D object data model file loaded in the web browser.

In some examples the 3D object data file includes information as to geometry of an object stored by material and divided into portions to be loaded as fragments and reassembled in portions by the client device. As one example for a mobile phone comprising multiple parts each part may be rendered using a separate or distinct shader for each material. Thus the 3D object data model file may be divided into multiple portions and compressed as described above to retain all portions. The client device may receive the compressed 3D object data file decompress the file and reassemble the portions of the object one by one by loading each fragment of the file streaming file requests for each shader and reassembling an image of the object.

Each given object or portion may include additional information specifying details of the object or portion. For example object directed to the phone glass also includes information as to geometry information for the phone glass parameters or attributes of the phone glass and transforms to apply to position the phone glass in the 3D scene. In one example geometry information such as a 3D mesh data file or vertex positions may be stored within an xml file. The parameters or attributes of the phone glass may describe a material for the phone glass. The transform may include a scale e.g. one or more values in x y and or z directions rotation e.g. an amount of rotation with respect to an axis of the 3D scene and a translation e.g. amounts of movement in x y and or z directions with respect to a position of the 3D scene . In some examples decoding parameters for each attribute of the phone glass are also included for the object .

The list of libraries may be pointers to specific shaders diffusion maps or environment maps per object in the list of objects. For example the phone glass object may be associated with a specific shader while the battery cover may be associated with a separate shader. In one example the diffuse map may be specified as a bitmap image that may be wrapped onto the surface geometry of the object to add color to the object. Optionally an environment map may be specified as a reflection image that is projected onto the surface geometry of the object to add a specular effect to the object. Other types of maps may also be described within the material library such as bump maps opacity maps glow maps or specular maps. The other attributes include information associated with other aspects of rendering a scene of the objects such as lighting background images camera position animation etc.

Table 1 below illustrates another example 3D scene document of a similar structure as the structure with further details and examples.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the block diagram shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor or computing device for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

Initially at block the method includes accessing data associated with a 3D scene. The data associated with the 3D scene may include one or more objects of the 3D scene and one or more rendering effects for the one or more objects. In some examples a 3D scene document may be provided to a computing component. The 3D scene document may be a file for example and may include a list of objects in a scene that are divided up according to material proprieties associated with geometric portions of objects. For example a 3D object may be defined by a first portion having a first material property and defined by a first geometric volume and or surface e.g. a plastic sphere as well as additional portions having other material and geometric properties.

In some examples information within the 3D scene file may define a decoding scheme or technique allowing a input component such as a file reading processing component to interpret the information. In one instance the 3D scene file may include a reference to a UTF 8 decoding scheme used for character encoding. In some instances the 3D scene file may be constructed according to a standard markup language that serves as a high level description of materials geometry lighting camera angles and composition of a scene among other possible descriptions that may be translated into proper JavaScript requests to fetch information.

In one example the input component may be configured to read the 3D scene file and identify a list of objects in the 3D scene. For instance the list of objects may define various geometric portions forming a 3D object and or information defining portions of multiple 3D objects.

The input component may also determine one or more rendering effects for the identified objects. For example within the 3D scene file information may define geometric properties of a first portion of a 3D object. In some examples the geometric properties may be defined with respect to a 3D coordinate system and may specify a transformation e.g. scaling of dimensions rotations translations etc. . In other examples the geometric properties may be defined relative to other objects defined in the 3D scene. In another example the one rendering effects may include information identifying assets such as shaders and maps used to render the objects or portions of the objects as well as global rendering effects for the 3D scene such as camera positions or lighting information.

At block the method includes determining one or more requests for assets and instructions associated with rendering the one or more objects based on the data. In some examples the 3D scene file may include an associated specification defining protocols for defining rendering effects for one or more objects. A translation component having a processor and a memory may determine requests for assets and instructions based on the identified objects of the 3D scene and rendering effects defined for the objects. In one example the requests for assets and instructions may be JavaScript based. For instance JavaScript source code may be executed such that when objects and rendering effects within a 3D scene file are determined JavaScript requests for information are dispatched to a server.

At block the method includes sending the one or more determined requests for assets and instructions to a server. As described previously in the instance in which the determined requests are JavaScript requests the JavaScript requests may be provided to a server.

At block the method includes receiving from the server assets and instructions that facilitate rendering the one or more objects based on the one or more rendering effects. In response to a received request the server may determine locate the requested information e.g. rendering instructions for WebGL and a shader and provide the information to a client device. In one example the server may access a stored 3D object data model file and determine rendering instructions based on rendering effects for the 3D object data model as specified in a request. The server may combine identified rendering effects and information from a 3D object data model to determine code to run in WebGL for example.

In one example the received instructions from the server may include geometry information and the assets may include compiled shading language programs shaders . A shader may include software instructions for performing mathematical calculations defining manipulations of individual elements such as vertexes or polygons of a 3D mesh model to produce visual information related to the element. The instructions may describe how to transform an element and any associated information at a 3D position in virtual space to a color for a 2D coordinate at which it appears on a screen. For instance a particular shader may be an algorithm that combines parameters such as any combination of diffuse information specular information and base color information to determine a final color to be rendered based on the parameters. In a further example the rendering effects may define a geometry shader that receives an output of a vertex shader. The geometry shader may be used to generate graphics primitives which may be ultimately provided to a pixel shader that computes color and optionally other attributes for each pixel that is rendered on the screen.

In a further example the received instructions may be instructions that are specific to one of multiple modalities. For instance the instructions may be selected by the server depending on factors of a client rendering the 3D scene. Example factors may include browser compatibility input devices of an interface screen size display resolution or network connection speed among other possibilities.

As an example a request for assets and instructions provided to the server by a client device may include a device identifier that identifies the one or more factors. In an instance in which a browser does not support HTML5 video and WebGL the received instructions may include information associated with static images for a swivel viewer. The swivel viewer may be configured to display static images of the 3D scene rendered from separate positions around an axis of the 3D scene. In one instance a user may click and drag to the left or right to cause the image displayed by the swivel viewer to change. In another example a user may perform a gesture e.g. a swipe on a touchscreen interface to cause the image displayed by the swivel viewer to be replaced by a different image.

As another example the received instructions may be tailored for rendering the 3D scene based on resolution and network connection speed of a client device. For instance the rendering instructions may be customized to provide low resolution rendering effects for network connection speeds that are below an upload and or download threshold speed. Similarly the received assets and instructions may be tailored for touch interaction versus mouse keyboard interaction.

At block the method includes rendering the one or more objects of the 3D scene based on the received instructions and the received assets. In one example the one or more objects of the 3D scene may be rendered within a web browser based on the received instructions and the received assets. For example geometry information and material assets e.g. a shader may be combined to determine a 2D image of the 3D scene. Determining the 2D image may include determining appropriate pixel values for pixels of the 2D image based on the geometry information and material assets. In some examples compiled code may be executable using for example WebGL or Open GL ES. Thus in some examples a 3D scene file and associated specifications defining the 3D scene file may enable automatically compiling the 3D scene file and any referenced instructions for rendering into code to be run in WebGL that may create a 3D scene in a web browser.

In one instance the 3D scene file may be a small file that may be loaded by script such as JavaScript. Based on information in the 3D scene file requests to load materials objects shaders etc. necessary to render a 3D scene may be initiated and the 3D scene may be generated.

In some instances the 3D scene file may be beneficial for composing 3D scenes involving 3D objects that share physical materials. For example the 3D scene file may define two separate portions that include the same glass surface. Information within the 3D scene file may reference the same shader for rendering the glass surface and define information for positioning the two separate portions relative to one another in the 3D scene.

In one example the 3D scene file may be a standard way to describe materials. Using a 3D scene file and information referenced in the 3D scene file a unified experience across multiple computers may be provided in terms of the appearance and visualization of an object. For example a first 3D scene may be defined by a 3D scene file and used to render the first 3D scene on a first computer including a given object. Additionally a second 3D scene may be rendered on a second computer including the given object using the same information used to describe the given object as in the 3D scene file. In some instances the given object may appear visually similar in each of the 3D scenes.

In other examples a scene may be built by designing a 3D scene file. A structure of the 3D scene file may be determined based on a standard defining ways to use HTML to define portions of objects in the 3D scene and define rendering effects associated with the portions of the objects. The 3D scene file may be read based on specifications associated with the standard and be compiled into WebGL for rendering the 3D scene.

In a further example 3D scene writers may be able to add additional functionality to a 3D scene by modifying a 3D scene file or adding additional features to a 3D scene file. As an example a user may define a widget such as a 3D button or interactive region within a 3D scene file. For instance the user may define a 3D position size shape and or appearance of the widget or interactive region by specifying parameters for the widget. An example description may be widgets widget1 widget type button on click camera position x y z camera orientation angle1 angle2 angle3 . The example description may enable a user to include a button that when selected causes the camera position of the 3D scene to change. Various other features are contemplated such as widgets for changing colors of an object e.g. by specifying a new shader or base color for an object causing an object to rotate e.g. by specifying a new transformation for an object causing an object to be displayed having an exploded view e.g. by specifying new positions for multiple object portions among other possibilities.

In some examples data associated with a 3D scene may be defined according to an application independent standard. For instance a framework and protocols may be established such that any 3D model and associated description may be converted into a 3D scene file that includes portions of objects that are divided and grouped according to material properties. The converted 3D scene file may be translated into rendering instructions according to the steps of the method . Similarly multiple 3D models optionally described using various modeling languages may be combined into a single 3D scene file. In one example processes for converting 3D models described according to various 3D modeling languages into the application independent standard may be determined. Thus the application independent standard may be a glue format that facilitates combining multiple 3D models into a single 3D scene file.

Depending on the desired configuration the system memory can be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory may include one or more applications and program data . Application may include a display algorithm that is arranged to provide inputs to the electronic circuits in accordance with the present disclosure. Program data may include content information that could be directed to any number of types of data. In some example embodiments application can be arranged to operate with program data on an operating system.

Computing device can have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and any devices and interfaces. For example data storage devices can be provided including removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Computer storage media can include volatile and nonvolatile non transitory removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

System memory and storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media can be part of computing device .

Computing device can also include output interfaces that may include a graphics processing unit which can be configured to communicate to various external devices such as display devices or speakers via one or more A V ports or a communication interface . The communication interface may include a network controller which can be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication via one or more communication ports . The communication connection is one example of a communication media. Communication media may be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. A modulated data signal can be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared IR and other wireless media.

Computing device can be implemented as a portion of a small form factor portable or mobile electronic device such as a cell phone a personal data assistant PDA a personal media player device a wireless web watch device a personal headset device an application specific device or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. Computing device can also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

In some embodiments the disclosed methods may be implemented as computer program instructions encoded on a non transitory computer readable storage media in a machine readable format or on other non transitory media or articles of manufacture. is a schematic illustrating a conceptual partial view of an example computer program product that includes a computer program for executing a computer process on a computing device arranged according to at least some embodiments presented herein.

In one embodiment the example computer program product is provided using a signal bearing medium . The signal bearing medium may include one or more programming instructions that when executed by one or more processors may provide functionality or portions of the functionality described above with respect to . In some examples the signal bearing medium may encompass a computer readable medium such as but not limited to a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape memory etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium may encompass a computer recordable medium such as but not limited to memory read write R W CDs R W DVDs etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium may encompass a communications medium such as but not limited to a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. . Thus for example the signal bearing medium may be conveyed by a wireless form of the communications medium e.g. a wireless communications medium conforming with the IEEE 802.11 standard or other transmission protocol .

The one or more programming instructions may be for example computer executable and or logic implemented instructions. In some examples a computing device such as the computing device of may be configured to provide various operations functions or actions in response to the programming instructions conveyed to the computing device by one or more of the computer readable medium the computer recordable medium and or the communications medium .

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

