---

title: Devices configured to cooperatively measure properties of a power transmission system
abstract: Described embodiments include a system and an apparatus. A described system includes a stationary device configured to be electrically coupled to a transmission line of a power transmission system and remain at a fixed location during a test measurement of the power transmission system. The system includes a mobile device configured to travel on the transmission line. The stationary device and the mobile device are further configured to cooperatively measure properties of the power transmission system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09048639&OS=09048639&RS=09048639
owner: Elwha LLC
number: 09048639
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120330
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Related Applications e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Application s .

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 436 299 entitled APPARATUS AND SYSTEM FOR SCHEDULING MOBILE DEVICE OPERATIONS ON A POWER TRANSMISSION SYSTEM naming Roderick A. Hyde and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Mar. 30 2012 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 436 404 entitled MOBILE DEVICE CONFIGURED TO PERFORM TASKS RELATED TO A POWER TRANSMISSION SYSTEM naming Roderick A. Hyde and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Mar. 30 2012 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 436 520 entitled MOBILE DEVICE CONFIGURED TO TRAVEL ON A TRANSMISSION LINE AND PROVIDE ASSISTANCE naming Roderick A. Hyde and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed Mar. 30 2012 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation or continuation in part. Stephen G. Kunin Benefit of Prior Filed Application USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003. The present Applicant Entity hereinafter Applicant has provided above a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing Applicant understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence Applicant is designating the present application as a continuation in part of its parent applications as set forth above but expressly points out that such designations are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

All subject matter of the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Applications is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a system. In this embodiment the system includes a stationary device configured to be electrically coupled to a transmission line of a power transmission system and remain at a fixed location during a test measurement of the power transmission system. The system includes a mobile device configured to travel on the transmission line. The stationary device and the mobile device are further configured to cooperatively measure properties of the power transmission system.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a system. In this embodiment the system includes at least two mobile devices configured to i travel on or along a transmission line of the power transmission system and the at least two mobile devices are further configured to ii cooperatively measure properties of the transmission line and or other structures associated with the power transmission system.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a system. In this embodiment the system includes at least two mobile devices configured to i travel on or along a transmission line of the power transmission system and the at least two mobile devices are further configured to ii cooperatively measure properties of the transmission line and or other structures associated with the power transmission system. The system includes a mobile device management tool configured to control the traverse of the transmission line of the power transmission system by the at least two mobile devices.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrated embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware software and or firmware implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware software and or firmware is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In some implementations described herein logic and similar implementations may include software or other control structures suitable to implement an operation. Electronic circuitry for example may manifest one or more paths of electrical current constructed and arranged to implement various logic functions as described herein. In some implementations one or more media are configured to bear a device detectable implementation if such media hold or transmit a special purpose device instruction set operable to perform as described herein. In some variants for example this may manifest as an update or other modification of existing software or firmware or of gate arrays or other programmable hardware such as by performing a reception of or a transmission of one or more instructions in relation to one or more operations described herein. Alternatively or additionally in some variants an implementation may include special purpose hardware software firmware components and or general purpose components executing or otherwise invoking special purpose components. Specifications or other implementations may be transmitted by one or more instances of tangible transmission media as described herein optionally by packet transmission or otherwise by passing through distributed media at various times.

Alternatively or additionally implementations may include executing a special purpose instruction sequence or otherwise invoking circuitry for enabling triggering coordinating requesting or otherwise causing one or more occurrences of any functional operations described below. In some variants operational or other logical descriptions herein may be expressed directly as source code and compiled or otherwise invoked as an executable instruction sequence. In some contexts for example C or other code sequences can be compiled directly or otherwise implemented in high level descriptor languages e.g. a logic synthesizable language a hardware description language a hardware design simulation and or other such similar mode s of expression . Alternatively or additionally some or all of the logical expression may be manifested as a Verilog type hardware description or other circuitry model before physical implementation in hardware especially for basic operations or timing critical applications. Those skilled in the art will recognize how to obtain configure and optimize suitable transmission or computational elements material supplies actuators or other common structures in light of these teachings.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various embodiments described herein can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof and a wide range of components that may impart mechanical force or motion such as rigid bodies spring or torsional bodies hydraulics electro magnetically actuated devices and or virtually any combination thereof. Consequently as used herein electro mechanical system includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry operably coupled with a transducer e.g. an actuator a motor a piezoelectric crystal a Micro Electro Mechanical System MEMS etc. electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem module communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. and or any non electrical analog thereto such as optical or other analogs. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that examples of electro mechanical systems include but are not limited to a variety of consumer electronics systems medical devices as well as other systems such as motorized transport systems factory automation systems security systems and or communication computing systems. Those skilled in the art will recognize that electro mechanical as used herein is not necessarily limited to a system that has both electrical and mechanical actuation except as context may dictate otherwise.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will also recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware and or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

Those skilled in the art will further recognize that at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into an image processing system. A typical image processing system may generally include one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch screen an antenna etc. control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing lens position and or velocity control motors for moving distorting lenses to give desired focuses . An image processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in digital still systems and or digital motion systems.

Those skilled in the art will likewise recognize that at least some of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch screen an antenna etc. and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A data processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The thin computing device includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between sub components within the thin computing device such as during start up is stored in the ROM . A number of program modules may be stored in the ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data .

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through one or more input interfaces. An input interface may include a touch sensitive display or one or more switches or buttons with suitable input detection circuitry. A touch sensitive display is illustrated as a display and screen input detector . One or more switches or buttons are illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a hardware button interface . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface or a physical hardware keyboard not shown . Output devices may include the display or a projector display .

In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker . Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are examples and other components and means of establishing communication links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and are coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional elements may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information a camera capturing and saving an image or communicating with an implantable medical apparatus.

In certain instances one or more elements of the thin computing device may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added to the thin computing device.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media. By way of further example and not of limitation computer readable media may include a communication media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In a further embodiment a computer storage media may include a group of computer storage media devices. In another embodiment a computer storage media may include an information store. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory or atomic quantum memory. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Communication media may typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media may include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A RAM may include at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM or a DDR DRAM. A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by the processor . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes for example to non removable non volatile magnetic media. also illustrates a removable non volatile memory interface that for example is coupled to a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk or is coupled to an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the example operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes memory cards flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include at least one of a touch sensitive display joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processor through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A display such as a monitor or other type of display device or surface may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . A projector display engine that includes a projecting element may be coupled to the system bus. In addition to the display the computing device may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The network logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN and may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the network through a network interface such as the network interface the modem or the wireless interface . The network may include a LAN network environment or a WAN network environment such as the Internet. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are examples and other means of establishing communication link between the computers may be used.

In certain instances one or more elements of the computing device may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added to the computing device.

In an embodiment a high voltage power transmission system may include a power transmission system designed and insulated to transport electric power from one place to another at voltage over approximately 35 000 volts. For example voltages of high voltage power transmission may include 138 kV 230 kV 345 kV 500 kV or 765 kV. In an embodiment a power distribution system may include a system designed and insulated to transport and distribute electrical power from a high voltage power transmission system to a subtransmission customer. For example voltages of a power distribution system may include 26 kV or 69 kv to a primary customer at 13 kV or 4 kV or to a secondary customer at 120V or 240V.

Structures associated with the example system includes transmission towers supporting transmission lines that are suspended from insulators . illustrates example transmission towers as towers A and B. Example insulators are illustrated as insulators A. A. and A. mounted on the tower A and insulators B. B. and B. mounted on the tower B. The insulators may be made for example from wet process porcelain toughened glass glass reinforced polymer composites or other non ceramic materials. Example transmission lines are illustrated as transmission lines . . and .. High voltage power transmission systems are subject to operational risks such as for example weather conditions ambient temperatures lightning or precipitation affect an overhead high voltage power transmission system. Other operational risks may include for example age damage or deterioration. Other operational risks may include for example vegetation or human originated encroachments. A potential operational risk is illustrated in as vegetation .

The TSM tool includes a receiver circuit an analysis circuit and a planning circuit . The receiver circuit includes a receiver circuit configured to receive data indicative of at least one physical parameter of a power transmission system illustrated as the high voltage power transmission system configured to transport electric power from one place to another. The analysis circuit includes an analysis circuit configured to assess a potential operational risk to a portion of the power transmission system at least partially based on the received data. For example the portion of the power transmission system may include that portion of the high voltage power transmission system between towers A and B. For example the portion of the power transmission system may include that portion of the transmission line . between towers A and B. For example the portion of the power transmission system may include that portion of the high voltage power transmission system between towers A and another tower. The planning circuit includes a planning circuit configured to schedule a traverse by the mobile device of a transmission line of the power transmission system at least partially based upon the assessed potential operational risk. The transmission line provides access to the portion of the power transmission system.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the TSM tool can be implemented using a hardware software and or firmware implementation. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the TSM tool can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the TSM tool can be implemented using a general purpose computer programmed to carry out or perform one or more particular functions of the TSM tool. For example aspects of the TSM tool can be implemented using a computing device . In an embodiment the computing device may be coupled with a computer storage device coupled to a computer readable medium. In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the general purpose thin computing device described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the purpose computing device described in conjunction with .

In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a power distribution system.

In an embodiment the data indicative of at least one physical parameter of the high voltage power transmission system includes at least one of an operating voltage current phase configuration age or capacity parameter of a component of the high voltage power transmission system. For example a component may include an insulator and the parameter may be the type manufacturer failure rate age years in service or last cleaning of the insulator. For example a component may include circuit breakers switches or transformers of the high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment wherein the data indicative of at least one physical parameter of a high voltage power transmission system includes at least one of an current phase configuration age cable size cable material or metal composition or single or bundled conductor status parameter of a transmission line of the high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the data indicative of data indicative of at least one physical parameter of a high voltage power transmission system includes at least one of a location or a map of the high voltage power transmission system. For example the map may include a geographic or schematic map. For example the map may include tower locations tower configurations or tower heights. For example the map may include clearances or acceptable line sag at particular locations. In an embodiment the data indicative of at least one physical parameter of a high voltage power transmission system includes at least one of safety and or fault tolerance margins or peak loads of the high voltage power transmission system.

In an embodiment the high voltage power transmission system includes an overhead high voltage power transmission system configured to transport electric power from one place to another. In an embodiment the high voltage power transmission system includes an underground high voltage power transmission system configured to transport electric power from one place to another. In an embodiment the high voltage power transmission system includes a particular high voltage power transmission system configured to transport electric power from one place to another. In an embodiment the high voltage power transmission system is parsable into at least two high voltage power transmission system portions for assessment of a potential operational risk.

In an embodiment the receiver circuit further configured to receive data indicative of an existing condition affecting the high voltage power transmission system. For example an existing condition may include an existing weather condition i.e. wind snow or temperature. In an embodiment the at least one event includes at least one of weather conditions ambient temperatures lightning or precipitation affecting the high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the at least one event includes at least one of existing line temperatures current demand or equipment failures of the high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the at least one event includes at least one of peak loads values peak load characteristics or status of another high voltage power transmission system affecting the high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the at least one event includes at least one of seasonal date or holiday status affecting the high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the potential operational risk includes a potential inspection requirement. In an embodiment the potential operational risk includes a potential maintenance requirement. In an embodiment the potential operational risk includes a potential repair requirement.

In an embodiment the analysis circuit includes an analysis circuit configured to assess a potential operational risk to a portion of the high voltage power transmission system or a structure associated with the portion of the high voltage power transmission system. The assessment is at least partially based on the received data.

In an embodiment the transmission line is a live transmission line. In an embodiment the transmission line is a depowered transmission line.

In an embodiment the planning circuit includes a planning circuit configured to prioritize a first assessed potential operational risk to a first portion of the portion of the high voltage power transmission system with respect to a second assessed potential operational risk to second portion of the high voltage power transmission system. The prioritization is at least partially based upon the first assessed potential operational risk and the second assessed potential operational risk. The planning circuit is also configured to schedule a traverse of the first portion of the portion of the high voltage power transmission system in response to the prioritization. For example the prioritizing may based upon a ranking of a plurality of operational risks. For example a possible catastrophic operational risk would have a higher priority than a routine preventative operational risk. In an embodiment the planning circuit includes a planning circuit configured to schedule in response to the assessed potential operational risk a traverse over a transmission line providing access to the portion of the high voltage power transmission system by at least two mobile devices. The at least two mobile devices configured to act in cooperation with each other.

In an embodiment the transmission line is positioned relative to the portion of the high voltage power transmission system in a manner that allows inspection access to the portion of the high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the transmission line is positioned relative to the portion of the high voltage power transmission system in a manner to allow repair access to the portion of the high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the transmission line is positioned relative to the portion of the high voltage power transmission system in a manner that allows maintenance access to the portion of the high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the transmission line is positioned relative to the portion of the high voltage power transmission system in a manner that allows replacement access to the portion of the high voltage power transmission system.

In an embodiment the data receiver circuit is further configured to receive data indicative of an existing condition affecting the high voltage power transmission system provided by another mobile device operating on the high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the data receiver circuit is further configured to receive data indicative of a first available mobile device having a first capability to respond to the assessed potential operational risk and a second available mobile device having a second capability to respond to the assessed potential operational risk. In an embodiment the TSM tool includes a mobile device selector circuit configured to select an available mobile device to perform the scheduled traverse of the transmission line from among a first available mobile device and a second available mobile device.

In an embodiment the planning circuit is further configured to provide data indicative of the scheduled traverse of the transmission line by the mobile device. For example the data may be provided in response to a request or a pull from another circuit of the TSM tool or from a third party device. For example the data may be pushed to another circuit of the TSM tool or to a third party device such as the computing device .

In an embodiment the TSM tool includes a travel controller circuit configured to control the scheduled traverse by the mobile device. In an embodiment the travel controller circuit is configured to control the route and the speed of the scheduled traverse by mobile device. In an embodiment the travel controller circuit is configured to control spacing between the mobile device and another mobile device while they are both traversing the high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the travel controller circuit is configured to determine a travel route to be taken by the mobile device. The travel route is determined based upon one or more factors including the mobile device s starting location the number and type of obstacles along the routes and the desired space time of sites to be reached by the mobile device. In an embodiment the travel controller circuit is configured to dispatch the mobile device in response to the data indicative of the scheduled traverse of the transmission line. In an embodiment the travel controller circuit is configured to dispatch the mobile device in response to one or more factors. These factors may include the type of measurements needed the time since previous measurements values of previous measurements and or the spatial temporal profile of measurements needed. In an embodiment the travel controller circuit is further configured to dispatch the mobile device for another traverse over the transmission line to another portion of the high voltage power transmission system for another measurement or activity based upon the mobile device s measurement or activity relative to the portion of the high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the travel controller circuit is further configured to dispatch another mobile device for another traverse over the transmission line to another portion of the high voltage power transmission system for another measurement or activity. The dispatch is at least partially based upon the mobile device s measurement or activity relative to the portion of the high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the travel controller circuit is configured to dispatch the mobile device to a location on the transmission line for measurement or activity. The dispatch is at least partially based upon consideration of one or more factors including line conditions phase voltage or current values loads sources weather and or environmental conditions. In an embodiment the travel controller circuit is configured to dispatch the mobile device to different portions of the high voltage power transmission system. The dispatch is at least partially based upon consideration of the relative needs for inspection and activity at the different portions and availability of the mobile device and another mobile device. In an embodiment the travel controller circuit is configured to dispatch the mobile device to different portions of the high voltage power transmission system. The dispatch is at least partially based upon anticipated or predicted needs for inspection and activity at the different portions and availability of the mobile device.

In an embodiment one or more decision making elements of the travel controller circuit are disposed at diverse locations in or about the high voltage power transmission system . In an embodiment one or more decision making elements of the travel controller circuit are disposed in one or more mobile devices . In an embodiment one or more decision making elements of the travel controller circuit are configured to act independently of each other to control a dispatch of one or more mobile devices.

In an embodiment the TSM tool further includes a computer readable medium configured to store the scheduled traverse of the portion of the high voltage power transmission system by the mobile device .

In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to traverse the portion of the high voltage power transmission system and to inspect for the assessed potential operational risk. In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to traverse the portion of the high voltage power transmission system and to address the assessed potential operational risk. For example addressing the assessed potential operational risk may include beginning a task. For example addressing the assessed potential operational risk may include inspection evaluation repair or a request additional information or instruction. In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to traverse the portion of the high voltage power transmission system and to automatically address the assessed potential operational risk. In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to automatically traverse the portion of the high voltage power transmission system and to automatically address the assessed potential operational risk. In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to traverse the portion of the high voltage power transmission system and to initiate an activity with respect to the assessed potential operational risk. In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to traverse the portion of the high voltage power transmission system and to initiate a repair or maintenance activity with respect to the assessed potential operational risk. In an embodiment the mobile device includes a mobile robotic device configured to traverse the portion of the high voltage power transmission system and to autonomously address the assessed potential operational risk. For example in an embodiment a mobile robotic device includes a mobile device designed to execute one or more tasks repeatedly with speed and precision. http searchcio midmarket.techtarget.com definition robot Last accessed Jan. 25 2012 . In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to traverse the portion of the high voltage power transmission system and to perform maintenance and or repair operations responsive to the assessed potential operational risk. In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to traverse the portion of the high voltage power transmission system and to automatically perform maintenance and or repair operations responsive to the assessed potential operational risk. Other examples of the mobile device are provided in conjunction with .

The example environment includes a remote computing environment illustrated as a computing environment that includes a display . In an embodiment the computing environment may include one or more elements of the computing environment described in conjunction with or the computing environment described in conjunction with . The example environment includes a person . In an environment the computing environment may interact with the person such as receiving input from the person or providing output to the person including via the display . In an embodiment the computing environment may be in wired or wireless communication with the TSM tool .

In an embodiment the TSM tool includes a communication module is configured to output data indicative of the scheduled traverse of the transmission line by the mobile device. For example the communication module may be configured to output data over a wired or a wireless communication path.

A prophetic example of the operation of the TSM tool in use may be illustrated by reference to . For example the receiver circuit of the TSM tool receives data indicative of at least one physical parameter of a high voltage power transmission system configured to transport electric power from one particular substation to another substation. For example the high voltage power transmission system may be a particular 500 kV overhead power transmission system built to transmit power between BPA s Big Eddy Substation near The Dalles Oreg. to a substation four miles northwest of Goldendale Wash. A physical parameter may include an age of the insulators along the system a failure or repair history of the insulators or a date the insulators were last cleaned.

Continuing with this prophetic example the analysis circuit assesses a potential operational risk to a portion of this particular high voltage power transmission system based on the received data. A potential operational risk may include degradation or failure of the insulators. The planning circuit schedules an inspection trip by a mobile device over a transmission line of the system. The scheduling is based upon the assessed potential operational risk to the system and may weigh a possible operational significance of the assessed potential operational risk i.e. complete failure vs. slight loss of power in determining when the inspection trip will be scheduled. For example the planning circuit may schedule the mobile device to travel on transmission line . and perform an inspection traverse of the insulator sets A B etc. mounted on each tower . The traverse may be scheduled at some convenient time in the future if the operational risk is classified as slight. The transmission line . may be selected as providing inspection access to the insulators of the high voltage power transmission system when the mobile device has a capacity to inspect insulators .A and A. from a position on the transmission line .. If the mobile device does not have a capacity to inspect insulators away from the traveled transmission line the planning circuit will schedule the mobile device to travel on each of the three transmission lines . . and . and perform a respective inspection traverse of the insulators supporting each line. For example a traverse of the transmission line . will provide the mobile device inspection access to the insulators A. and B.. The communication module is configured to output data indicative of the scheduled traverse of the transmission line by the mobile device. In this prophetic example the communications module would output data indicative the scheduling a travel of the mobile on transmission line . to perform an inspection traverse the insulator sets A B etc. mounted on each tower at a selected day and time.

In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a power distribution system.

The TSM tool is configured to assess a potential inspection and or repair need of a structure associated with the high voltage power transmission system . The TSM tool is also configured to accordingly schedule a traverse by a mobile device of a transmission line of the high voltage power transmission system in response to the potential inspection and or repair need. The mobile device is configured to traverse the transmission line of high voltage power transmission system and perform an action in response to the potential inspection and or repair need. The high voltage power transmission system is configured to transport electric power from one place to another and the transmission line provides access to the structure.

In an embodiment the transmission system management tool is configured to accordingly schedule and dispatch a traverse of a transmission line of the system by the mobile device .

In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to traverse another transmission line while traveling on the transmission line in use. In an embodiment the mobile device is configured for passive or active electrical inspection of the transmission line and or structures associated with the transmission line segment. In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to measure physical parameters of the transmission line including one or more of temperature cleanliness stress strain and or sag. In an embodiment the mobile device includes a camera or radar configured to address vegetation clearances of the transmission line. In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to automatically respond to the potential inspection and or repair need. In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to automatically traverse a transmission line segment and to automatically respond to the potential inspection and or repair need. In an embodiment mobile device is configured to initiate an activity with respect to the potential inspection and or repair need. In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to traverse a transmission line and to autonomously address the assessed potential inspection and or repair need for the transmission line. In an embodiment the mobile device may be at least substantially similar to the mobile device described in conjunction with .

In an embodiment the TSM tool may include a receiver circuit and assessment circuit a planning circuit a communications module a mobile device selector circuit a travel controller circuit a computing device or the computer storage device coupled with the computer readable medium .

In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a power distribution system.

In an embodiment the planning operation may include at least one additional operation such as the operation . The operation includes prioritizing a first assessed potential operational risk to a first portion of the high voltage power transmission system with respect a second assessed potential operational risk to second high voltage power transmission system and scheduling a traverse of the first transmission line segment in response to the prioritization. The prioritizing is at least partially based upon the first assessed potential operational risk and the second assessed operational risk.

In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to automatically traverse live transmission lines and to automatically respond to the assessed potential operational risk. In an embodiment the mobile device includes a mobile robotic device configured to autonomously traverse live transmission lines and to autonomously respond to the assessed potential operational risk. In an embodiment the high voltage power transmission system includes an overhead high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the high voltage power transmission system includes a particular high voltage power transmission system.

In an embodiment the process includes providing a notification at least partially based on the data indicative of the scheduled traverse to at least one of a human computer or system. In an embodiment the process includes transforming the data indicative of the scheduled traverse into a particular visual depiction and outputting the particular visual depiction. In an embodiment the process includes outputting data indicative of the scheduled traverse of the live transmission line by the mobile device.

In an embodiment the computer readable media includes a tangible computer readable media . In an embodiment the computer readable media includes a communication media . In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a power distribution system.

In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a power distribution system.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile robotic device can be implemented using a hardware software and or firmware implementation. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device can be implemented using a general purpose computer programmed to carry out or perform one or more particular functions of the mobile device. For example aspects of the mobile device can be implemented using a computing device . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the general purpose thin computing device described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the purpose computing device described in conjunction with .

In an embodiment the live transmission line is an overhead live transmission line. In an embodiment the live transmission line is an underground live transmission line.

An example of a propelled mobile chassis is described by U.S. Pat. No. 4 904 996 to Fermandes. An example of a propelled mobile chassis is described by U.S. Pat. No. 7 496 459 to McAllister and United States Pat. App Pub. 2008 0249723 by McAllister. An example of a propelled mobile chassis is described by U.S. Pat. No. 7 282 944 to Gunn United States Pat. App Pub. 2008 0246507 by Gunn and United States Pat. App Pub. 2005 0017751 by Gunn. An example of a propelled mobile chassis is described by U.S. Pat. No. 6 494 141 to Montambault.

An example of a propelled mobile chassis is described by B Jiang A V Mamishev University of Washington undated accessed at http www.ee.washington.edu research seal pubfiles Sci07.pdf on Feb. 29 2012 . An example of a propelled mobile chassis is described T Li F Lijin W Hongguang 500 SICE 2004 Annual Conference Sapporo Japan August 2004 . An example of a propelled mobile chassis is described by A. De Souza et al 1 1 7 ABCM Symposium Series in Mechatronics 2004 accessed at http www.abcm.org.br symposiumseries ssm vol1 section i robotics ssm i01.pdf on Feb. 29 2012 . An example of a propelled mobile chassis is described by X Xiao et al. Wuhan University P. R. China undated accessed at http www.intechopen.com source pdfs 5322 InTech An inspection robot for high voltage power transmission line and its dynamics study.pdf on Feb. 29 2012 . An embodiment of a propelled mobile chassis is described by Z Tingyu et al. 1924 1929 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Biomimetics 2007. ROBIO 2007 . An example of a propelled mobile chassis is described by N Pouliot et al. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation 2008. ICRA 2008 . An example of a propelled mobile chassis is described by S Montambault et al. 6International Conference on Field and Service Robotics FSR 2007 Chamonix France 2007 accessed at http hal.inria.fr docs 00 19 47 17 PDF fsr15.pdf on Feb. 29 2012 . An example of a propelled mobile chassis is described by H san Segundo et al. IEEE 2006 accessed at http ieeexplore.ieee.org stamp stamp.jsp tp arnumber 4152907 userType tag 1 on Mar. 5 2012 

In an embodiment the inspection module is configured to automatically inspect the structure for a potential damage or deterioration. In an embodiment the inspection module is configured to automatically inspect the structure for a potential damage or deterioration caused by normal wear and tear. In an embodiment the inspection module is configured to automatically inspect the structure for a potential damage or deterioration caused by aging of the structure. In an embodiment the inspection module is configured to automatically inspect the structure for a potential damage or deterioration caused by a weather event. In an embodiment the inspection module is configured to automatically inspect the structure for potential damage or deterioration caused by standing water. In an embodiment the inspection module is configured to automatically inspect the structure for a potential maintenance repair or modification need. In an embodiment the inspection module is configured to automatically inspect for encroaching vegetation. In an embodiment the structure includes at least one of the transmission line other transmission lines insulators ground line encasement cooling system or towers associated with the power transmission system.

In an embodiment the risk assessment module is configured to assess a potential risk to the power transmission system from normal wear and tear in response to data provided by the inspection module. In an embodiment the risk assessment module is configured to assess a potential risk to the power transmission system from encroaching vegetation in response to data provided by the inspection module. In an embodiment the risk assessment module is configured to assess a potential risk to the power transmission system from encroaching vegetation. The assessment is in response to data provided by the inspection module and in response to data indicative of the encroaching vegetation at a previous inspection. For example including in the assessment of a potential risk data from a previous inspection is expected to provide a baseline for assessing how fast the encroaching vegetation is growing. In an embodiment the risk assessment module is configured to assess a potential risk to the power transmission system from encroaching vegetation. The assessment is in response to data provided by the inspection module and in response to imaging triangulation and or time of flight measurement data to determine the height or extent of encroaching vegetation. In an embodiment the risk assessment module is configured to assess a potential risk to the power transmission system from encroaching vegetation. The assessment is in response to data provided by the inspection module and in response to one or more local geographic or topographic factors. These factors may include whether the vegetation is above below or to the side of the power line and or whether the vegetation is uphill or upwind from the power line.

In an embodiment the mobile device includes a maintenance module physically associated with the mobile chassis and configured to perform a maintenance repair or modification activity relative to the power transmission system in response to the assessed potential risk. In an embodiment the maintenance module is configured to automatically perform a maintenance repair or modification activity relative to the power transmission system. In an embodiment the maintenance module is configured to perform a maintenance repair or modification activity relative to the power transmission system in response to a received authorization. In an embodiment the maintenance module is configured to repair damage or deterioration to the structure associated with the power transmission system. In an embodiment the maintenance module is configured to repair or modify an insulator associated with the power transmission system In an embodiment the maintenance module is configured to perform a maintenance repair or modification activity to the structure associated with the power transmission system. In an embodiment the maintenance module is configured to trim vegetation encroaching the structure associated with the power transmission system. In an embodiment the maintenance module is configured to trim vegetation encroaching the structure associated with the power transmission system. The trimming may by delivery of electrical energy photonic energy or chemical spray and or by physical cutting. In an embodiment the maintenance module is configured to repair or clean a power line insulator. In an embodiment the maintenance module is configured to de ice a transmission line. In an embodiment the maintenance module is configured to apply a deicing compound or fluid to a transmission line. In an embodiment the maintenance module is configured to mechanically de ice a transmission line. In an embodiment the maintenance module is configured to apply heat to a transmission line. For example heat may be applied by blowing warm air or by resistive heating.

In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a power distribution system.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the TSM tool can be implemented using a hardware software and or firmware implementation. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the TSM tool can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the TSM tool can be implemented using a general purpose computer programmed to carry out or perform one or more particular functions of the TSM tool. For example aspects of the TSM tool can be implemented using a computing device . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the general purpose thin computing device described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the purpose computing device described in conjunction with .

In an embodiment the mobile robotic device is further configured to wirelessly communicate with the TSM tool . In an embodiment the transmission system management tool is further configured to wirelessly communicate with the mobile robotic device. In an embodiment the transmission system management tool is further configured to be stationed at a fixed location. In an embodiment the transmission system management tool is configured to assess a potential risk to the power transmission system in response to inspection data provided by the mobile device. The transmission system management tool is configured to accordingly schedule and authorize the mobile robotic device or another mobile robotic device to perform a maintenance repair or modification activity relative to the structure of the power transmission system.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device can be implemented using a hardware software and or firmware implementation. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device can be implemented using a general purpose computer programmed to carry out or perform one or more particular functions of the mobile device. For example aspects of the mobile device can be implemented using a computing device . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the general purpose thin computing device described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the purpose computing device described in conjunction with .

In an embodiment the vegetation growing proximate includes previously known vegetation growing proximate to a portion of the overhead power transmission system . In an embodiment the vegetation growing proximate includes previously unknown vegetation growing proximate to a portion of the overhead power transmission system.

In an embodiment the vegetation inspection module includes a sensor configured to measure a height or extent of vegetation relative to the transmission line. In an embodiment the sensor includes a camera radar lidar or sonar device.

In an embodiment the communication module is configured to wirelessly output data indicative of the measured characteristic of the vegetation. For example the data indicative of the measured characteristic of the vegetation may be wireless communicated to a vegetation management tool . In an embodiment the vegetation management tool may include a planning module a or risk assessment module . In an embodiment the vegetation management tool includes a computing device . In an embodiment the communication module is configured to communicate with a maintenance module configured to trim vegetation.

In an embodiment the mobile device includes the maintenance module physically associated with the mobile chassis and configured to trim vegetation growing proximate to a portion of the overhead power transmission system. In an embodiment the maintenance module is configured to trim vegetation growing proximate to a portion of the overhead power transmission system in response to the outputted data indicative of the measured characteristic of the vegetation. In an embodiment the maintenance module is configured to automatically trim vegetation growing proximate to a portion of the overhead power transmission system. In an embodiment the maintenance module is configured to trim vegetation growing proximate to a portion of the overhead power transmission system in response to an instruction originated by a vegetation management tool.

In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a power distribution system.

In an embodiment the mobile device may include a vegetation measuring module a vegetation control module or a communication module . In an embodiment the mobile device is further configured to trim the encroaching vegetation to address the assessed risk. For example trimming encroaching vegetation may be implemented using the vegetation control module . In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to trim vegetation using electrical or photonic energy chemical spray and or physical cutting.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device can be implemented using a hardware software and or firmware implementation. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device can be implemented using a general purpose computer programmed to carry out or perform one or more particular functions of the mobile device. For example aspects of the mobile device can be implemented using a computing device . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the general purpose thin computing device described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the purpose computing device described in conjunction with .

The vegetation management tool is configured to address the measured one or more characteristics and assess risk to the power transmission system posed by the encroaching vegetation. In an embodiment the vegetation management tool may include a communication module a vegetation evaluation module a planning module or a vegetation risk assessment module . In an embodiment the vegetation management tool is configured to assess risk to the power transmission system posed by the encroaching vegetation at least partially based on generally available guidelines and or protocols. In an embodiment the vegetation management tool is configured assess risk to the power transmission system posed by the encroaching vegetation at least partially based on generally available guidelines and or protocols. In an embodiment the vegetation management tool is configured assess risk to the power transmission system posed by the encroaching vegetation. The risk is assessed at least partially based on particular guidelines and or protocols for the power transmission system. In an embodiment the vegetation management tool is configured to use imaging triangulation and or time of flight measurement data to determine a height or extent of the encroaching vegetation. In an embodiment the vegetation management tool is configured to determine clearances between encroaching vegetation and the transmission line in response to the measured one or more characteristics of the encroaching vegetation. In an embodiment the vegetation management tool is configured to assess risk to the power transmission system from the encroaching vegetation. The risk is assessed based on one or more local geographic or topographic factors including whether the encroaching vegetation is above below or to the side of the power transmission system and or whether the encroaching vegetation is uphill or upwind from the power transmission system. In an embodiment the vegetation management tool is configured to assess risk to the transmission line from the encroaching vegetation based on a time lapse analysis of changes in the height or extent of the encroaching vegetation. In an embodiment the vegetation management tool is configured to address a measured clearance between the encroaching vegetation and the power transmission system. The vegetation management tool is also configured to automatically assess risk to the transmission line posed by the encroaching vegetation based on the measured clearance. In an embodiment the vegetation management tool is configured to address a measured clearance between the encroaching vegetation and the power transmission system. The vegetation management tool is also configured to automatically assess risk to the transmission line posed by the encroaching vegetation based on the measured clearance and on a specified sag value of a transmission line of the power transmission system. In an embodiment the vegetation management tool is configured to address a measured clearance between the encroaching vegetation and a transmission line of the power transmission system. The vegetation management tool is also configured to automatically assess risk to the transmission line posed by the encroaching vegetation based on the measured clearance and on a specified wind environment of the transmission line. For example the specified wind environment may include a predicted or an existing wind environment.

In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a power distribution system.

In an embodiment the stationary device and the mobile device are configured to cooperatively measure properties of a component of the power transmission system located between the stationary device and the mobile device. In an embodiment the stationary device and the mobile device are configured to automatically and cooperatively measure properties of the power transmission system. In an embodiment the stationary device and the mobile device are configured to cooperatively measure electrical and or mechanical properties of the power transmission system. In an embodiment the stationary device and the mobile device are configured to automatically and cooperatively determine a voltage standoff capability of an insulator supporting or holding the transmission line. In an embodiment one of the stationary device or the mobile device is configured to apply a test excitation to the transmission line and the other of the stationary device or the mobile device is configured measure a response of the transmission line to the test excitation.

In an embodiment the test excitation frequency is at about a nominal transmission line excitation frequency. In an embodiment the test excitation frequency is different than a nominal transmission line excitation frequency. In an embodiment the test excitation is applied to the live transmission line at about zero crossings in the excitation carried by the live transmission line. In an embodiment the at about the zero crossings includes not more than plus or minus ten degrees of the zero crossings in excitation carried by the live transmission line. In an embodiment the at about the zero crossings includes not more than plus or minus five degrees of the zero crossings in the excitation carried by the live transmission line. In an embodiment the at about the zero crossings includes not more than plus or minus two degrees of the zero crossings in excitation carried by the live transmission line. In an embodiment the at about the zero crossings includes not more than plus or minus one degree of the zero crossings in excitation carried by the live transmission line. In an embodiment the test excitation is applied to the live transmission line during a select time portion of a frequency cycle of the excitation carried by the live transmission line. In an embodiment the mobile device is configured to apply a test excitation to an insulator supporting or holding the transmission line and the stationary device is configured measure a response of the insulator to the test excitation. In an embodiment the stationary device and the mobile device are configured to cooperatively conduct a passive or active electrical inspection of the transmission line and or structures associated with the transmission line. In an embodiment the stationary device and the mobile device are configured to cooperatively measure physical transmission line parameters including one or more of temperature cleanliness stress strain and or sag.

In an embodiment the mobile device includes a sensor not illustrated configured to measure a height or extent of encroaching vegetation along the transmission line. In an embodiment the sensor includes a camera radar lidar or sonar device.

In an embodiment the system includes a test controller configured to manage the cooperative measurement of properties of the power transmission system by the stationary device and the mobile device . In an embodiment the test controller is further configured to control an aspect of travel over the transmission line by the mobile device. In an embodiment the test controller is further configured to initiate a cooperative measurement of properties of the power transmission system. In an embodiment the test controller is further configured to receive data indicative of the cooperatively measured properties from the stationary device or the mobile device. In an embodiment the test controller is further configured to output informational data responsive to the data indicative of the cooperatively measured properties.

An embodiment includes method. After a start operation an operational flow of the method includes electrically coupling a stationary device at a fixed location to a transmission line of a power transmission system. For example in an embodiment this operation may be implemented by using the conductor and the connector to electrically couple the stationary device to the transmission line . described in conjunction with . The operational flow includes initiating travel of a mobile device over the transmission line . to a selected location on the transmission line. For example in an embodiment this operation may be implemented by initiating travel of the mobile device over the transmission line described in conjunction with using the travel control module described in conjunction with . The operational flow includes measuring a property of a structure of the power transmission system using the stationary device and the mobile device. The stationary device and the mobile device are configured to cooperatively measure the property of the structure. The operational flow includes outputting data indicative of the measured property of the structure. For example in an embodiment this operation may be implemented using the communication module or the communication module described in conjunction with . The operational flow includes an end operation. In an embodiment the operational flow may include at least one additional operation. The at least one additional operation may include managing the cooperative measurement of the property of the power transmission system by the stationary device and the mobile device. For example in an embodiment this operation may be implemented using the cooperation control module described in conjunction with .

In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a power distribution system.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device can be implemented using a hardware software and or firmware implementation. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device can be implemented using a general purpose computer programmed to carry out or perform one or more particular functions of the mobile device. For example aspects of the mobile device can be implemented using a computing device . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the general purpose thin computing device described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the purpose computing device described in conjunction with .

With reference to in an embodiment the mobile device and the mobile device may be substantially similar. In an embodiment one mobile device of the at least two mobile devices is a mobile robotic device. In an embodiment two mobile devices of the at least two mobile devices are mobile robotic devices. In an embodiment the power transmission system includes an overhead power transmission system. In an embodiment the power transmission system includes an underground power transmission system. In an embodiment the at least two mobile devices are further configured to automatically and cooperatively measure properties of the transmission line and or other structures associated with the transmission line. In an embodiment the at least two mobile devices are further configured to cooperatively measure electrical and or mechanical properties of the transmission line and or other structures associated with the transmission line. In an embodiment the at least two mobile devices are further configured to cooperatively measure properties of a component of the power transmission system located between them. In an embodiment the at least two mobile devices are further configured to automatically and cooperatively determine a voltage standoff capability of an insulator supporting or holding the transmission line. For example in an embodiment the mobile device is configured to apply a test excitation to the transmission line and the mobile device is configured measure a response of the transmission line to the test excitation.

In an embodiment the test excitation frequency is at about a nominal transmission line excitation frequency. In an embodiment the test excitation frequency is different than a nominal transmission line excitation frequency. In an embodiment the test excitation is applied to the live transmission line at about zero crossings in the excitation carried by the live transmission line. In an embodiment the at about the zero crossings includes not more than plus or minus ten degrees of the zero crossings in the excitation carried by the live transmission line. In an embodiment the at about the zero crossings includes not more than plus or minus five degrees of the zero crossings in the excitation carried by the live transmission line. In an embodiment the at about the zero crossings includes not more than plus or minus two degrees of the zero crossings in the excitation carried by the live transmission line. In an embodiment the at about the zero crossings includes not more than plus or minus one degree of the zero crossings in the excitation carried by the live transmission line.

In an embodiment a mobile device is configured to apply a test excitation to the live transmission line during a select time portion of a frequency cycle of the excitation carried by the live transmission line. In an embodiment a first mobile device is configured to apply a test excitation to an insulator supporting or holding the live transmission line and a second mobile device is configured measure a response of the insulator to the test excitation. In an embodiment a first mobile device is configured to apply a test excitation to an insulator supporting or holding the power and a second mobile device is configured to counteract or offset the applied test excitation. In an embodiment the at least two mobile devices are further configured to cooperatively measure properties of an insulator associated with an power transmission system for example wherein the mobile device is positioned on the transmission line and on a first side of the insulator and the mobile device is positioned on the transmission line and at a second and opposing side of the insulator. illustrates this embodiment. In an embodiment a mobile device is configured to apply a test excitation to an insulator supporting or holding the transmission line at about zero crossings in the excitation carried by the transmission line. In an embodiment a mobile device is configured to apply a test excitation to an insulator supporting or holding the transmission line during a select time portion of a frequency cycle of the excitation carried by the transmission line. In an embodiment a mobile device is configured for passive or active electrical inspection of the transmission line and or structures associated with the transmission line. In an embodiment a mobile device is configured to measure physical transmission line parameters including one or more of temperature cleanliness stress strain and or sag. In an embodiment a mobile device includes at least a sensor configured to measure a height or extent of encroaching vegetation along the transmission line.

In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a power distribution system.

In an embodiment the mobile device management tool includes a travel control module a cooperation control module or a communication module . The travel control module is configured to control the traverse of the transmission line by the at least two mobile devices. The cooperation control module is configured to control the cooperative measurement of the properties of the transmission line and or other structures associated with the power transmission system by the at least two mobile devices. The communication module is configured to communicate with the at least two mobile devices and or a third party device.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device management tool can be implemented using a hardware software and or firmware implementation. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device management tool can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device management tool can be implemented using a general purpose computer programmed to carry out or perform one or more particular functions of the mobile device. For example aspects of the mobile device management tool can be implemented using a computing device . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the general purpose thin computing device described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the purpose computing device described in conjunction with .

In an embodiment the mobile device management tool is configured to control the traverse of the transmission line and facilitate the cooperative measurement by the at least two mobile devices. In an embodiment the mobile device management tool is configured to schedule and control the traverse of the transmission line of the power transmission system by the at least two mobile devices. In an embodiment the mobile device management tool is further configured to provide instructions to the at least two mobile devices regarding their cooperative measurement of properties. In an embodiment the mobile device management tool is further configured to control an aspect of the cooperative measurement of properties by the at least two mobile devices. In an embodiment the mobile device management tool is further configured to output informational data responsive to the cooperatively measured properties.

An embodiment includes method. After a start operation an operational flow of the method includes initiating travel of a first mobile device over a transmission line of a power transmission system to a first location on the transmission line. For example in an embodiment this operation may be implemented using the travel control module described in conjunction with . The operational flow includes initiating travel of a second mobile device over the transmission line to a second location on the transmission line. For example in an embodiment this operation may also be implemented using the travel control module described in conjunction with . The operational flow includes measuring a property of a structure of the power transmission system using the first mobile device and the second mobile device. For example in an embodiment this operation may also be implemented using the property measurement module the cooperation module and or the cooperation control module described in conjunction with . The first mobile device and the second mobile device are configured to cooperatively measure the property of the structure. The operational flow includes outputting data indicative of the measured property of the structure. For example in an embodiment this operation may also be implemented using the communication module and or the communication module described in conjunction with . The operational flow includes an end operation.

In an embodiment the operational flow includes managing the cooperative measurement of the property of the power transmission system by the first mobile device and the second mobile device. In an embodiment the transmission line includes a pre selected first location on the transmission line. In an embodiment the first location on the transmission line includes a first location on the transmission line selected by the first mobile device. In an embodiment the second location on the transmission line includes a pre selected second location on the transmission line. In an embodiment the second location on the transmission line includes a second location on the transmission line selected by the second mobile device.

In an embodiment the assistance module includes a pull wire or pull rope assistance module configured to deploy a pull wire or pull rope between the two transmission towers. In an embodiment pull wire or pull rope assistance module is configured to deploy a pull wire or pull rope configured to facilitate installation of a new conductor cable or line between the two transmission towers. In an embodiment the pull rope includes a low mass high strength pull rope e.g. Kevlar or Spectra. In an embodiment pull wire or pull rope assistance module is configured to install a pull wire or pull rope between the two transmission towers. In an embodiment pull wire or pull rope assistance module is configured to

In an embodiment the assistance module includes a support or spacing fixtures assistance module configured to physically facilitate installation of support or spacing fixtures for a new conductor cable or line. In an embodiment the support or spacing fixtures assistance module is configured to install support or spacing fixtures for a new conductor cable or line. In an embodiment the support or spacing fixtures assistance module is configured to physically facilitate installation of support or spacing fixtures at either of the two transmission towers or along the overhead transmission line on which it traverses. In an embodiment the assistance module includes a pulling assistance module configured to apply a pulling force on a new conductor cable or line being installed. In an embodiment the assistance module includes a de installation assistance module configured to physically assist a de installation of a conductor cable or line between the two transmission towers. In an embodiment the assistance module includes a deployment assistance module configured to physically assist a de installation of a conductor cable or line between the two transmission towers. In an embodiment the assistance module includes a spool or reel configured to carry a new conductor cable or line. In an embodiment the spool or reel is configured to carry and deploy a new conductor cable or line. In an embodiment the assistance module includes a conductor removal module configured to gather removed conductor cable or line. In an embodiment the mobile device includes a communication module physically associated with the chassis and configured for wireless communication.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device including the assistance module can be implemented using a hardware software and or firmware implementation. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the mobile device can be implemented using a general purpose computer programmed to carry out or perform one or more particular functions of the mobile device. For example aspects of the mobile device can be implemented using a computing device . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the general purpose thin computing device described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the purpose computing device described in conjunction with .

In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a high voltage power transmission system. In an embodiment the power transmission system includes a power distribution system.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the installation assistance controller can be implemented using a hardware software and or firmware implementation. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the installation assistance controller can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in an embodiment aspects of the installation assistance controller can be implemented using a general purpose computer programmed to carry out or perform one or more particular functions of the mobile device. For example aspects of the installation assistance controller can be implemented using a computing device . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the general purpose thin computing device described in conjunction with . In an embodiment the computing device may be implemented in part or whole using the purpose computing device described in conjunction with .

All references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety or to the extent their subject matter is not otherwise inconsistent herewith.

In some embodiments configured includes at least one of designed set up shaped implemented constructed or adapted for at least one of a particular purpose application or function.

It will be understood that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims are generally intended as open terms. For example the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to. For example the term having should be interpreted as having at least. For example the term has should be interpreted as having at least. For example the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. It will be further understood that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of introductory phrases such as at least one or one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a receiver should typically be interpreted to mean at least one receiver the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited it will be recognized that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of at least two chambers or a plurality of chambers without other modifiers typically means at least two chambers .

In those instances where a phrase such as at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C or an item selected from the group consisting of A B and C is used in general such a construction is intended to be disjunctive e.g. any of these phrases would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together and may further include more than one of A B or C such as A A and C together A B B C and Ctogether or Band Btogether . It will be further understood that virtually any disjunctive word or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable or physically interacting components or wirelessly interactable or wirelessly interacting components.

With respect to the appended claims the recited operations therein may generally be performed in any order. Also although various operational flows are presented in a sequence s it should be understood that the various operations may be performed in other orders than those which are illustrated or may be performed concurrently. Examples of such alternate orderings may include overlapping interleaved interrupted reordered incremental preparatory supplemental simultaneous reverse or other variant orderings unless context dictates otherwise. Use of Start End Stop or the like blocks in the block diagrams is not intended to indicate a limitation on the beginning or end of any operations or functions in the diagram. Such flowcharts or diagrams may be incorporated into other flowcharts or diagrams where additional functions are performed before or after the functions shown in the diagrams of this application. Furthermore terms like responsive to related to or other past tense adjectives are generally not intended to exclude such variants unless context dictates otherwise.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following.

