---

title: Commenting correlated to temporal point of video data
abstract: Commenting tied to user-selected times during play of audio/video content is enabled by a computer system. An apparatus detects a time that input of user comment data is received during playback of audio/video content on an electronic display device. The apparatus determines a temporal point relative to the playback of the audio/video content correlated to the user comment data, based on the time. The apparatus transmits the user comment data correlated to identifiers for the audio-video content and the temporal point to a computer server. The server may configure the video data for publishing on a website so that the comment data is displayed for a limited period based on the temporal point. Users may thereby conveniently record audio or textual comments that are output during subsequent play of the audio/video content, for sharing with friends and others.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09066145&OS=09066145&RS=09066145
owner: HULU, LLC
number: 09066145
owner_city: Santa Monica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120327
---
This application claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 503 536 filed Jun. 30 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present application relates generally to input output processing using a computer and more particularly to enabling collection configuration and distribution of user comments correlated to user selected times during playback of a video data.

Video data including audio video data is increasingly distributed over computer networks telecommunications networks and combinations of such networks for the viewing and enjoyment of network users. Video data is often distributed as discrete video files or video clips posted on social networking websites as a way for members of such sites to share video content with members of a social group. Video files or clips are also frequently distributed by posting on public forum websites where access to the video is available to the general public and is not restricted to a particular group of users. Both public forums and social network sites may often include features that enable users to post comments about any posted content including video content. Such features may cause comments about posted video content to appear adjacent to a video link to the video content. The comments adjacent to the video link may be visible to a user s designated friends i.e. members of the social network that share access to the user s content when posted by the user or to the general public and be presented in an interface that enables a comment thread to be developed from additional user comments responding to the original comment or video content. Through these connections users may share video and other content including recommendations and commentary with friends or others.

For example a user may view a video on a video content distributor website such as www.hulu.com or the like and decide to post it on a social networking website such as www.facebook.com or www.twitter.com for example. The video website may enable such sharing by presenting one or more icons related to different social networks. By selecting a share icon a window may pop up on the video content site and prompt a user to insert a comment to accompany the video. The user may then enter a comment and post a link to the video and comment to the user s homepage of the social network chosen via a content sharing module of the video content distribution site in cooperation with the social networking site. Notwithstanding the advantages of prior video commenting methods such methods may be subject to certain limitations. For example prior commenting methods do not enable commentators to conveniently direct an intended audience to a precise portion of video content nor to indicate such portion in an iconic manner. These and other limitations of prior video commenting methods may be overcome by the novel methods and apparatus disclosed herein.

Methods apparatus and systems for configuration and distribution of user comments correlated to user selected times during playback of a video data are described in detail in the detailed description and certain aspects are summarized below. This summary and the following detailed description should be interpreted as complementary parts of an integrated disclosure which parts may include redundant subject matter and or supplemental subject matter. An omission in either section does not indicate priority or relative importance of any element described in the integrated application. Differences between the sections may include supplemental disclosures of alternative embodiments additional details or alternative descriptions of identical embodiments using different terminology as should be apparent from the respective disclosures.

In an aspect a method for providing user comment data correlated to a temporal point in playback of audio video content may be performed by a client device. The method may include detecting a time that input of user comment data is received during playback of audio video content on an electronic display device. The method may include determining a temporal point relative to the playback of the audio video content correlated to the user comment data based on the time. The method may further include transmitting the user comment data correlated to identifiers for the audio video content and the temporal point to a computer server.

In another aspect the method may include providing data for a user interface including control objects for the playback of the audio video content and entry of the user comment data to the electronic display device. Detecting the time may be based on a time that input of the user comment data is initiated based on a time that input of the user comment data is completed or some other time. The method may include receiving the user input from a user input device local to the electronic display device. The method may include detecting user input of the user comment data.

In other aspects the method may include identifying a source identifier for the user input data and transmitting the source identifier to the computer server. The source identifier may be or may include a user account identifier such as for example an account name or account number. In addition the method may include identifying a website and destination user account as a prospective publication site of the user comment data based on further user input and transmitting information identifying the prospective publication site of the user comment data to the computer server.

A computer server in communication with one or more client devices may perform a method for providing a link to digital audio video content responsive to user comment data. The method may include receiving from a source device an electronic transmission of user comment data correlated to identifiers for audio video content and a post inception temporal point in the audio video content. The method may further include configuring a link to the audio video content including an indication of the post inception temporal point. The method may further include providing the user comment data with the link to a website host for publication on a website.

In an aspect the method may include generating a thumbnail image from a video frame indicative of the post inception temporal point of the audio video content. The method may further include configuring the link to include the thumbnail image.

In another aspect the method may include receiving an identifier for the website host as a prospective publication site of the user comment data from the source device. For example the method may include receiving an identifier for a destination user account at the website host from the source device and providing information identifying the destination user account to the website host.

In another aspect the method may include truncating the audio video content based on the post inception temporal point to provide a truncated audio video content e.g. a video clip and providing the truncated audio video content to the website host.

A website host may perform a method for providing a link to audio video content referencing a temporal point for user comment data. The method may include receiving a link to audio video content and to a post inception temporal point of the audio video content. The method may include publishing the link on a webpage. The method may include initiating streaming of the audio video content to a client device at the post inception temporal point in response to detecting selecting of the link.

In an aspect the method performed by the website host may include receiving comment data correlated to the link. The method may further include publishing the comment data with the link. The method may include displaying a thumbnail image from a video frame indicative of the post inception temporal point of the audio video content as an icon for the link.

In another aspect the method may include receiving an identifier for a user account with the link and selecting the webpage based on the user account. The method may include configuring the webpage to include content submitted by a group of independent users identified with the user account. The method may include configuring the webpage to include content submitted by a group of independent users identified with a second user account wherein the user account is identified as a member of the group of independent users.

In related aspects a client side or server side computing apparatus may be provided for performing any of the methods and aspects of the methods summarized above. An apparatus may include for example a processor coupled to a memory wherein the memory holds instructions for execution by the processor to cause the apparatus to perform operations as described above. Certain aspects of such apparatus e.g. hardware aspects may be exemplified by equipment such as computer servers personal computers smart phones notepad computers laptop computers and other computing devices of various types used for providing or accessing information over a computer network. Similarly an article of manufacture may be provided including a non transitory computer readable medium holding encoded instructions which when executed by a processor may cause a client side or server side computing apparatus to perform the methods and aspects of the methods as summarized above.

Further embodiments aspects and details of methods apparatus and systems for configuration and distribution of user comments correlated to user selected times during playback of a video data are presented in the detailed description that follows.

Various embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more embodiments.

In selected embodiments the features and aspects disclosed herein may be implemented within a computing environment . Such an environment may include one or more computer servers . A server may be operatively coupled to one or more data stores e.g. databases indexes files or other data structures . A server may connect to a data communication network . A data communication network may comprise a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet a telephone network a wireless cellular telecommunications network or some combination of these or similar networks.

One or more client devices may be in communication with the server and a corresponding data store via the data communication network . Such client devices may include for example one or more laptop computers desktop computers smart phones mobile phones televisions or combinations thereof. In operation such client devices may send and receive data or instructions to the server in response to user input received from user input devices or other input. In response the server may serve data from the data store alter data within the data store add data to the data store or the like or combinations thereof.

In selected embodiments the server may stream or transmit one or more video files including video content audio content and or metadata from the data store to one or more of the client devices via the data communication network . The devices may output video content from the video file using a display screen projector or other video output device. For example the video file may comprise a clip of a movie television show news broadcast or portion thereof for output using a display device of one or more of the client devices . In certain embodiments the system configured in accordance with the features and aspects disclosed herein may be configured to operate within or support a cloud computing environment. For example a portion of or all of the data store and server may reside in a cloud server.

Referring to a diagrammatic view of an example computer is illustrated. One or more of the devices of the system may be configured as or include such a computer . In selected embodiments the computer may include a bus or other communication mechanism a processor main memory read only memory ROM one or more additional storage devices a communication interface or the like or sub combinations thereof.

A bus or other communication mechanism may support communication of information within the computer . A processor may be connected to a bus and process information. In selected embodiments a processor may be a specialized or dedicated microprocessor configured to perform particular tasks in accordance with the features and aspects disclosed herein by executing machine readable software code defining the particular tasks. Main memory e.g. random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device may be connected to a bus and store information and instructions to be executed by a processor . Main memory may also store temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of such instructions.

Read only memory ROM or some other static storage device may be connected to a bus and store static information and instructions for a processor . An additional storage device e.g. a magnetic disk optical disk memory card or the like may be connected to a bus . The additional storage device may include a non transitory computer readable medium holding information instructions or some combination thereof for example instructions that when executed by the processor cause the computer to perform one or more operations of a method as described herein. A communication interface may also be connected to a bus . A communication interface may provide or support two way data communication between a computer and one or more external devices e.g. other devices contained within the computing environment .

In selected embodiments a computer may be connected e.g. via a bus to a display . A display may use any suitable mechanism to communicate information to a user of a computer . For example a display may include or utilize a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED display projector or other display device to present information to a user of the computer in a visual display.

One or more input devices e.g. an alphanumeric keyboard or microphone may connected to a bus to communicate information and commands to a computer . In selected embodiments one input device may provide or support control over the positioning of a cursor. Such a cursor control device also called a pointing device may be configured as a mouse a trackball a track pad touch screen cursor direction keys or other device for receiving or tracking physical movement and translating the movement into electrical signals indicating cursor movement. A cursor control device may communicate direction information and command selections to a processor and control cursor movement on a display . A cursor control device may have two or more degrees of freedom for example allowing the device to specify cursor positions in a plane or three dimensional space.

The computer may be used to transmit receive display or the like one or more video files. In selected embodiments such transmitting receiving and displaying may be in response to a processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another non transitory computer readable medium e.g. a storage device .

Execution of sequences of instructions contained in main memory may cause a processor to perform one or more of the procedures or steps described herein. In selected embodiments one or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute sequences of instructions contained in main memory . Alternatively or in addition thereto firmware may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement procedures or steps in accordance with the features and aspects disclosed herein. Thus embodiments in accordance with the features and aspects disclosed herein may not be limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term non transitory computer readable medium as used herein may refer to any medium that participates in holding instructions for execution by a processor or that stores data for processing by a computer. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and temporary storage media e.g. cache memory . Non volatile media may include optical or magnetic disks such as an additional storage device . Volatile media may include dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of non transitory computer readable media may include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD Blu ray or other optical medium RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory card chip or cartridge or any other memory medium from which a computer can read.

In selected embodiments a communication interface may provide or support external two way data communication to or via a network link . For example a communication interface may be a wireless network interface controller or a cellular radio providing a data communication connection. Alternatively a communication interface may comprise a local area network LAN card providing a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. In any such embodiment a communication interface may send and receive electrical electromagnetic or optical signals conveying information.

A network link may provide data communication through one or more networks to other data devices e.g. client devices as shown in the computing environment . For example a network link may provide a connection through a local network of a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . An ISP may in turn provide data communication services through the Internet . Accordingly a computer may send and receive commands data or combinations thereof including program code through one or more networks a network link and communication interface . Thus a computer may interface or otherwise communicate with a remote server e.g. server . Instructions received by a computer may be executed by a processor as they are received stored for later execution e.g. stored on a storage device or some combination thereof.

Referring to in selected embodiments a system in accordance with the features and aspects disclosed herein may associate one or more comments received from users e.g. media listeners media viewers or the like via various client devices with a specific temporal point in one or more audio video files generated by one or more content providers. A video file includes video data characterized by a sequence of video frames that are output in order at a defined frame rate to generate video output. At such a video file includes an initial or first frame at inception of video output and each subsequent frame is output at a defined time after inception. Thus each frame defines a particular time or temporal point in the video file typically measured from the time of inception. For example for a video configured for 30 frames per second the 300frame defines a temporal point 10 seconds after inception. A temporal point in a video file may sometime be referred to herein as a location in relation to a progress bar or other time indicator.

Comments may be in the form of text data for example as generated from keyboard input or by processing audio input using a speech to text component. The system may enable users to tie their comments to specific temporal points in audio video files in which video files the users may have no ability or right to modify directly. The tie may be in the form of a relational data structure that associates a comment record with an identifier for a video file and a specific temporal point in the video file. The users may be independent of and distinct from the content providers and generally do not possess the capability to edit or create the audio video files .

In certain embodiments an audio video file may be any one of a variety of audio video files currently available on websites including podcasts or other audio files video and accompanying audio presentations movies and other content such as found on websites such as www.hulu.com for example private video clips on sites such as www.youtube.com for example or associated with advertising including advertising with or without using audio and or visual content. A system may associate one or more comments with one or more audio video files through any suitable arrangement of hardware software or combinations thereof.

In certain embodiments a system may include one or more user interface components . Each such user interface may enable and support interaction between one or more users and the system . Different user interfaces may support users of different types. For example one user interface may support one or more builders of the system maintainers of the system or the like while another user interface may support one or more clients or customers of the system e.g. content providers human users seeking to view or listen to one or more video files or the like . A user interface component may be a software component that manages exchange of information and instructions with a user operating the system via a user interface.

A system may include a data store or collection of data stores . A data store may contain certain files data structures data or the like to be used by the various components of a system . In selected embodiments a data store may contain one or more audio video files e.g. audio files video files or the like . Additionally a data store may contain one or more comments .

A comment may comprise text data audio data video data or the like input by a user to a system . In selected embodiments a system may include a comment module cooperating with a user interface and one or more data stores in handling comments input by users. For example a comment module may include or perform a receiving function enabling a system to receive and store comments from users. A comment module may also include or perform one or more of a linking function displaying function sharing function or the like.

A linking function may form an association between a comment and a selected temporal point portion segment or subset of a particular video file . A linking function may form such an association in any suitable manner for example by relating a comment record with an identifier for a video file and a specific temporal point of the video file in a relational data structure. In selected embodiments a linking function may generate linking data . Linking data may identify the video file to which a comment pertains. Linking data may also identify a temporal point of the video file to which the comment pertains. For example linking data may include time data defining or identifying a time point or partial portion of a video file e.g. start time end time or some combination thereof .

A displaying function may enable one more comments to be displayed in conjunction with the corresponding video file or a selected portion of the corresponding video file . A sharing function may enable one or more comments a video file a selected portion of a video file or some combination thereof to be shared by a user on one or more social media platforms or systems. Both such functions may provide the corresponding functionality in any suitable manner.

Although the components and modules illustrated herein are shown and described in a particular arrangement the arrangement of components modules or functions may be altered to process data in a different manner. In other embodiments one or more additional components modules functions data structures data or the like may be added to the described systems or one or more components or modules may be removed from the described system . Alternate embodiments may combine two or more of the described components or modules into a single component or module.

The functions or structures of a system in accordance with the features and aspects disclosed herein may be distributed across a computing environment as desired or necessary. Certain functions or structures may pertain to one or more servers while other functions or structures may pertain to one or more clients e.g. devices connected to one or more servers via a data communication network .

In accordance with the features and aspects disclosed herein a system may associate comments with certain locations within a video file which typically includes video and audio components and cause these comments to be provided to a social networking site or public forum site for posting. The system may provide a link to the commented point in the video file that provides an iconic indication of such point. For example the system may create the link including a thumbnail version of the video frame at the commented point. Thus a user may place comments within a video file such as a video and accompanying audio presentation for example at temporal points within the file so that friends may see these comments and also comment themselves. The link may be configured so that selection of the link by a user causes the video to play starting at or near the commented point instead of at the video s original inception point.

In operation a user may be playing a video file generated by an independent entity yet still have the ability to incorporate or submit a comment that may be published on a social media website where the user and the user s friends may view the video file and associated comments . When the comment is completed the user may simply submit the comment and it may be automatically associated with the video file .

Once associated a comment may remain to be presented to other users. Additionally a brief clip of the video file may be automatically published on the user s homepage of a social network. When friends visit the user s homepage they may select the video file and play the clip associated with the comment . They may also be able to play e.g. see hear the entire video file with other associated comments whether the comments come from other friends or anyone playing the video file .

Referring to a system in accordance with the features and aspects disclosed herein may provide or support a graphical user interface that may be used to play e.g. output a display based on a sequence of video data a video file e.g. the video file shown in and related data and provide comments e.g. a comment as referenced in at specific points within the video file. Although represented diagrammatically by the outline it should be appreciated that the graphical user interface may be embodied as an input output module executing on a client device that receives user input and generates responsive output. The user interface may generate and output a window to a display device. The window may include an image display portion displaying output frames of video data and a progress bar . The client device may generate the window such that the progress bar indicates a point in a video timeline corresponding to a current frame of the video file appearing in the image display portion . For example a progress bar may include a progress indicator that automatically progresses e.g. from left to right during playing of a video file to indicate the current location temporal points locations of play and possible locations to leave a comment. The progress bar may also indicate an inception point and a termination point representing times at which the video file in play begins and ends respectively. In the progress indicator is depicted at location intermediate between the inception point and termination point .

The user interface module executing in the client device may control the progress indicator so that it moves in response to user input to change the location of play or to select a location for leaving a comment . The client device may include a tool bar or other control feature in the window to enable a user to control playback of a video file to jump to a temporal point within the video file to indicate where a comment may be placed or the like. A tool bar may include convenient commands to play pause stop reverse fast forward fast reverse or the like or combinations or sub combinations thereof.

In selected embodiments the client device may provide a comment window via the user interface configured as an input object enabling users to add comments to a video file at specific temporal points for example at an intermediate point indicated by the progress indicator during play of video content. Using the comment window an end user viewing a video file that is already produced and distributed to multiple users may associate comments or other data at any temporal point that the end user selects in a video file. Unlike conventional comment windows that merely allow users to associate general comments to a video file selected embodiments in accordance with the features and aspects disclosed herein may enable users and their friends to input comments and to see the comments of others at specific temporal points throughout a video file.

The client device may configure the comment window such that it supports various kinds of input. For example in selected embodiments the client device may configure the comment window to receive typed or spoken audio input as text. In other embodiments the client device may configure the comment window to receive a link to a comment of some other form for example a comment in the form of an audio file digital photograph or other video data.

The client device may display a video portion of a video file in the image display portion while a outputting corresponding audio portion of the video file synchronously on an audio output device for example speakers. The client device may indicate a temporal point of a currently displayed video and audio content in relation to the other content of a video file. When paused a current video still frame may be shown essentially freezing a video presentation audio presentation or both.

For example a progress indicator may indicate that a currently displayed video frame is temporally about one fourth of the way through a video file. In selected embodiments a progress indicator clock e.g. 00 00 00 indicating hours minutes and seconds respectively may show the elapsed time between the beginning of the video file and the current temporal position e.g. 00 40 42 in the illustrated embodiment of the progress indicator . Also a progress bar may include a total length indicator that indicates the total length of the video file currently being played e.g. 2 05 31 in the illustrated embodiment .

In one embodiment the client device may receive a comment as user input in a comment window while playing a video file in a media playing and displaying a sequence of video frames in the image display portion . The client device may record the time at which a user begins to enter a comment relative to the current video progress. Subsequently the client device may detect an event indicating that the user has completed entry of the comment. For example the user may select an icon or other object in the window or enter a keystroke or pause for more than a defined duration. In response to detecting completion of a comment the client device may create a record in a database or other data structure associating the comment with an identifier for the video file and with a selected temporal point that is intermediate between the inception point and termination point . The selected temporal point may be for example a time at which the client device first detected entry of the comment in the comment window a comment start time or a time defined in relation with a comment start time or detected comment finish time for example a defined number of seconds e.g. 3 prior to the comment start time. The client device may select the temporal point at an earlier time than the comment start time setting the time back to associate the comment with an earlier temporal point of the video file. This may conveniently account for a lag time between when a user decides to leave a comment and the time the user actually takes to input the comment. Accordingly a client device may relate a comment to a selected temporal point in the video file.

In another embodiment or situation the client device may enable an end user to navigate a video file or to select a temporal point at which to associate a comment by selecting and moving the progress indicator . For example the client device may receive user input from a pointing device or the like indicating that the end user has selected the indicator and moved it to a new position along the progress bar . For example a progress indicator may be moved from a first position corresponding to a first time e.g. 00 40 42 to a second position corresponding to a second time e.g. 01 41 32 . In response a media player component on the client device may therefore advance or jump play of the video file to the second position e.g. play may continue with the video and or audio at the new location .

In selected embodiments the client device may progress a sequence of video frame presented in an image display portion in response to user input indicating movement of the progress indicator to a new position along the progress bar . Accordingly a user may view images e.g. video frames associated with the changing temporal position within a video file before releasing the progress indicator . Alternatively images may not be presented during movement of an indicator until after the user releases the indicator at the new location . In either case a progress indicator clock may communicate or display a time position within a video file.

Alternatively or in addition to the foregoing a control palate may be used to scan a video file to identify a location for playing the video file or for placing a comment. A video control tool bar may include various interactive control objects for example a stop button pause button play button fast forward button reverse button rewind button forward to the end button and reverse to the beginning button. In certain embodiments fast forward and rewind buttons may include multiple speeds.

For example selecting a fast forward button once may cause a video file to play at twice a normal playback speed. Selecting the button additional times may increase the speed e.g. four times eight times sixteen times or the like . The same or similar functionality may be incorporated into a rewind button. Also a user may advance or retreat through frames of the video file one frame at a time by selecting a pause button then selecting a fast forward button or a reverse button respectively. Any of the foregoing techniques may be used to sequentially scan the frames of a video file.

Referring to in selected embodiments a user interface operating on a client device enables a user to enter comments into a comment space while a media player component of the user interface plays a video file or afterwards. The client device may generate a secondary window presenting in response to receiving user input indicative of a user interest in adding a comment. In the illustrated example a user HG has entered a comment comprising text reading Love this scene in the comment window . In response the client device may cause a secondary widow to appear proximate to the progress bar near the progress indicator to indicate the place at which the comment would be placed. The secondary window may further include a time comparator indicating a current location of the proposed comment relative to the entire length of the video file. Such a comparator may change as the user changes e.g. selects and drags the location of a comment along a progress bar .

A location along a progress bar may automatically change when a user inputs a comment optionally being set back for a period of time between one to ten seconds for example. This may provide a logical location of a comment within a video file to account for a possible lag in the time for a user to input a comment after a relevant portion of a video file has been experienced by the user. An indicator may be moved from one place to another along a progress bar possibly locating the comment at a new location .

In selected embodiments once a comment has been input e.g. typed into a comment window uploaded in the form of an audio file or the like it may be shared. This may be accomplished in any suitable manner. For example in certain applications e.g. with certain settings selected or entered a comment may be immediately or automatically shared in response to detecting entry of an Enter key press or the like on a keyboard. Alternatively a comment may be shared in response to detecting user selection of a share icon or button based on input from a pointing device or in response to any suitable defined event.

A share icon may be used to initiate sharing of a video file or portion thereof and an associated comment on one or more social networking sites or online public forums. For example in response to detecting user selection of a share icon the client device may cause a secondary window to appear including a list of popular social networking Web sites from which to choose. In response to detecting a user selection or designation of a social networking site the client device may provide the comment and a link to a video or portion thereof together with the temporal point associated with the comment for posting on a designated Web page for example a user home page within the social networking site. For example the client device may transmit the comment to a host server with an identifier for the video file and information defining the associated temporal point of the comment for storage in a database or other data structure. Subsequently the client device or host server may transmit the comment video file and information defining the associated temporal point or a link thereto to the social networking site. Accordingly the video file or portion thereof together with the comment of the user may be viewed by others e.g. friends of the user designated within the social networking site who may also comment on the video file themselves. In an alternative the video link and comments may be similarly shared on a public forum website with no restrictions to a particular group of users.

Referring to in selected embodiments once a comment has been associated with a video file using a method as described herein a client device subsequently playing the video file with an associated comment may generate a window or similar data object at an appropriate time during play of the video. The window may include comment data and indicate the location of the comment in the video file. The icon may be positioned proximate to the progress bar and point to the temporal point to which the comment is associated. In certain embodiments the client device may enable a user that submitted the comment to change the associated temporal point by selecting a progress indicator or a comment icon and changing the location temporal point to another time. The user may then be invited to comment again for example text to that effect may be presented in a comment window .

Referring to in selected embodiments a computer system in accordance with the features and aspects disclosed herein e.g. a system may perform or enable a comment processing method . Such a method may begin when a system plays a video file. This may occur after a system has received a command or request from a user to play the video file. As the video file is played the system may then prompt the user to comment on the video file or a portion thereof. In response to such prompting the system may receive a comment from the user. The system may then publish the comment together with the selected portion. In selected embodiments such publishing may occur after a system has first received a confirmation of authorization from the user to share or otherwise publish the comment.

Referring to in selected embodiments a user of a computer system in accordance with the features and aspects disclosed herein e.g. a system may perform a comment posting method . Such a method may begin when a user selects a video file. For example a user may select for viewing a video presented on a website. The user may then experience e.g. watch listen to or both the video file or portion thereof.

While experiencing the video file or sometime thereafter a user may input a comment. Such inputting may include selecting a location temporal point within the timeline of the video file to be associated with the comment. For example a user may communicate a desired location for a comment by selecting a location on a progress bar . Alternatively a location for a comment may be determined by simply starting to input a comment as a video file is playing. In such a case the comment may be automatically linked e.g. by default with that portion of the video file playing at or about the time the comment was input .

The user may then authorize a system to publish the comment with the corresponding or designated portion of the video file. For example the user may authorize the system to publish the comment on the website where the user selected the video file. Alternatively or in addition thereto a user may authorize or instruct a system to publish the comment and associated video file or portion thereof on a social networking site e.g. on the homepage of the user within the social networking site . Accordingly in authorizing publication of the comment the user may choose to share the comment and video file with others e.g. the user s friends within the social network .

Referring to a comment and associated video file or portion thereof may be shared or published in any suitable manner. In selected embodiments comments may appear together including comments from one or more other users associated with a common temporal point during play of the video. For example in certain embodiments a user interface may include a comment display that displays one or more comments left by users including the corresponding user names. These comments may be grouped in various ways based on a set of one or more associated temporal points in the video wherein each group of comments is associated with one of the temporal points. In an aspect the client device may provide output in the window identifying various time points associated with respective groups of comments .

For example in the illustrated embodiment time points where comments have been made are identified with a pointer in relation to the progress bar. The comment display corresponding to one of the pointers or may be expanded for viewing of comments in response to detecting user selection of a pointer. For example in response to detecting selection of the pointer located at time 40 42 the client device or a server may cause the associated comments to appear in the window . Other pointers may be included in the display windows indicating other locations in the video file where other comments are associated and will be output in the window in response to selection of a corresponding one of the other pointers . In selected embodiments a pointer may be highlighted delineated or otherwise expanded to draw attention when the current time of the video play passes over the pointer by the client or host device.

Referring to a comment an associated video file or portion thereof or both may be shared with or published on a social networking site in any suitable manner. For example in certain embodiments a host server may in response to a signal from a client device automatically create a hashtag for the comment on a social networking site such as TWITTER for example including an indication of the temporal point of the video associated with the comment and publish the hashtag to the TWITTER website. Alternatively or in addition thereto comments may appear within a forum type of social networking site wherein users post comments left by themselves and designated other members of a social network. The simplified screenshot provides one example of how a comment associated with a defined temporal point in a video file may be published on a social networking site.

For example in response to receiving user input requesting that an associated comment be shared with a designated social networking site a host may publish a video file or portion thereof e.g. a link to a video clip on a homepage of the user within the social network. A photo of the user submitting the comment may appear next to any comments or other posts made on the user s homepage . Information relating to the video file may identify a source or origin of the video file. For example information presented may identify the source of the video clip as HULU . The information may further identify a name of the video file the temporal point to which the comment pertains and other comments from the user s friends or others that are also associated with the same video file or the same portion or temporal point of the video file. Other related or unrelated comments may be presented on the homepage as usual. In an aspect the system may configure the link as a thumbnail image taken from the video clip at the indicated time point for example at 00 40 42. In another aspect the system may configure the link so that when selected the video is streamed to appear in the page starting at the indicated time point .

In certain embodiments a video clip may appear on the user s homepage together with the comments and other information . The size of the clip may be determined by a predetermined time frame a predetermined number of video frames a predetermined segment defined by preselected portions of the underlying video file or by other methods. In response to the user relocating the temporal point to which a comment is associated the system may adjust the beginning and endpoints of the clip . As discussed above if a system automatically locates the placement of a comment within a video file and optionally self adjusts the comment to be located at an earlier point in time three to five seconds earlier for example then the endpoints of a clip may also be moved to capture a relevant portion for posting on a user s homepage .

Referring to in certain embodiments various pointers may correspond to respective groups of comments . Each group of comments may correspond to a different time on a progress bar and be accompanied by a button or similar interactive object for accessing the comments . When such a button is selected the system may display corresponding comments in an expanded window . The system may collapse the window when another group of comments is selected and replace it with an alternative window with a different group of comment. In an alternative or in addition to system may open or close multiple windows like window independently in response to separate user input.

As a video file is played the system may display or output comments at their respective associated temporal points in the video file. Accordingly a user may see or hear comments at each location. For example the system may display a comment window when the time point of the video file associated with the comments is reached enabling the viewer listener a chance to review the comments while playing the video file.

The system may provide a period of time over which comments e.g. textual comments remain after the moment or point in time in which the comment first appears. This may allow sufficient time for a viewer to read the comments. If there is a long list of comments pertaining to a particular point in time more time may be allocated so that a viewer may read all of the comments. For example there may be a predetermined amount of time allotted for each individual comment left at a particular point in time. Alternatively time may be allotted based on the total number of words that make up all comments giving a more granular metric from which to set a viewing period for each comment window .

In embodiments permitting submission of comments in an audio file format each comment may be played along with the corresponding video file. Accordingly a viewer listen of the video file may hear the various comments that have been uploaded to the system at an associated temporal point in the video file. When more than one comment in audio format has been submitted for a particular point in time those comments may be played sequentially e.g. in the order received with or without some overlap. In selected embodiments the volume applied to such audio comments may be somewhat lower than the volume applied to any audio originating with the video file itself. Accordingly the comments in audio format may be heard much like impromptu comments of an audience at a movie presentation or the like at user selected points throughout the duration of play of a video file.

After sufficient time has passed for reading of all relevant textual comments the corresponding comment window may close reduce in size or be replaced by another window in response to play of the video file reaching a later temporal point associated with another set of one or more comments. Also if a viewer moves a progress indicator the system may display or audibly output the comments in a compressed time format as the indictor is moved. For example when a progress indicator is being moved by a user a comment window may be presented for a time interval that is shorter than the interval that would be used if the video were playing at normal speed.

The system may incorporate comments with digital video data in a video file in parallel tracks or layers. For example after receiving comments a host server may generate a Flash overlay including the comments with the video file such that when the video file is subsequently played the comments automatically appear for a limited period of time or are played as each temporal point is reached. In an alternative approach a system may monitor progress of play of a video file and based on a comment data record created for the video file output comments associated with respective temporal points in the data structure as progress of play reaches each respective temporal point.

In selected applications the comments may be presented without regard to whether the comments originated with a particular user or a friend of that user. In other applications only user within a particular group may be presented with selected comments e.g. comments input by members of that group . Thus groups may be partitioned within a social network where subsets of users or subsets of a user s friends may be partitioned apart for different reasons. For example recreational groups professional groups family groups or other groups of like minded users may be treated differently in establishing viewership and access criteria with respect to comments linked to a video file.

In certain embodiments certain users may be given priority over other users. For example it may be desired in a video file to have a director s commentary where a director may input thoughts on a scene or point in a video file. Here it may be in everyone s interest e.g. the author of the video file the provider of the presentation the user or friends and the top ranking person as well to give these types of comments priority enhancing the viewing experience etc.

Once comments are established on a video file the system may identify points in a video file that have the most comments . The system may highlight a temporal point in the video file based on a number or other quantity e.g. total words or length of associated comments. For example playlists may be created around moments in a video file themes common occurrences and other events.

The foregoing examples may be embodied in one or more methodologies performed by a computer for example a client device server or some combination of a client device and server. Methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to various flow charts. Although methodologies are shown and described as a series of acts blocks for simplicity of illustration it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the number or order of blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or at substantially the same time with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement methodologies described herein. It is to be appreciated that functionality associated with blocks may be implemented by software hardware a combination thereof or any other suitable means e.g. device system process or component . Additionally it should be further appreciated that methodologies disclosed throughout this specification are capable of being stored as encoded instructions and or data on an article of manufacture for example a non transitory computer readable medium to facilitate storing transporting and transferring such methodologies to various devices. Those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a method could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram.

A method shown in may be performed by a client device for providing user comment data correlated to a temporal point in playback of audio video content. The method may include at detecting a time that input of user comment data is received during playback of audio video content on an electronic display device. The time may be determined relative to an inception time of the video data and may be based on a current frame pointer relative to a video timeline. The time should be related to the video timeline. For example the client device may monitor a current time or frame pointer of a video file and copy such value to a temporary memory location in response to detecting input of user comment data via a designated user interface. Detecting the time may be based on a time that input of the user comment data is initiated. In the alternative detecting the time may be based on a time that input of the user comment data is completed or at some other time based on the input of user comment data.

The method may further include at determining a temporal point relative to the playback of the audio video content correlated to the user comment data based on the time detected at block . The temporal point may be that location on the video timeline that the comment should appear during a subsequent playing of the video file or portion thereof. In an aspect the temporal point is located at some time or at any selected time after inception zero on the video timeline and before the terminal time at which the video is terminated. In other words at some intermediate point in the video timeline. The client device may determine this time using any suitable algorithm for example subtracting a lag period e.g. 3 seconds from the time detected at equating the temporal point to the detected time or by some other algorithm depending on the design of the user interface for collecting comments and how the time of receiving the comment data is determined.

The method may further include at transmitting the user comment data correlated to identifiers for the audio video content and the temporal point to a computer server. This operation may enable sharing of the comment data with another person viewing the video output from the video file at a later time. The identifier for the video file may be or may include a unique name or code used for identifying the video file in a database accessible to the computer server. The identifier for the temporal point may include for example a time designation based on a timeline of the video file or a frame designator e.g. Xth out of Y frames . The client device may further transmit an identifier for a user account operating the client device when the comment data is received to the computer server along with instructions for publishing the comment on one or more Web sites.

It should be appreciated that the operations described in connection with block of the method or other operations of the method may involve operations of a computer server to the extent that the client device is operating as a dumb terminal or portal to a process occurring at a different computer server. Various distributions of these operations may be implemented between a client device and host device without departing from the scope of the method . In an aspect the method may include providing data for a user interface including control objects for the playback of the audio video content and entry of the user comment data to the electronic display device. Various examples of resulting user interfaces and control objects are shown in described in connection with and any suitable method of generating data for such objects in the applicable computer operating system may be used.

With reference to several additional operations are depicted for providing user comment data correlated to a temporal point in playback of audio video content which may be performed by a client device alone or in combination with a server. One or more of operations may optionally be performed as part of method . The elements may be performed in any operative order or may be encompassed by a development algorithm without requiring a particular chronological order of performance Operations can be independently performed and are not mutually exclusive. Therefore any one of such operations may be performed regardless of whether another downstream or upstream operation is performed. For example if the method includes at least one of the operations or then the method may terminate after the at least one operation without necessarily having to include any subsequent downstream operation s that may be illustrated.

In one embodiment with reference to the method may further include at the client device receiving the user input from a user input device local to the electronic display device. For example the client device may receive comment data as keyboard input interpreted as text data as an audio signal or as an audio signal that is processed using a speech to text algorithm to provide text data. The receiving of the user input should occur via an interface for displaying video output for example via a user interface as shown in . The method may further include at detecting user input of the user comment data. In an aspect this may include the client device or host system recognizing that certain user input is intended as comment data. Such recognition may be accomplished for example by providing a specific object e.g. a comment window for entry of comment data or by using a reserved input code e.g. comment or spoken word comment to indicate inception of a comment or by any other suitable method.

In other aspects with reference to the method may further include at identifying a source identifier for the user input data and transmitting the source identifier to the computer server. For example the client device may use a login sequence cookie or combination to identify a user account for a session in which commenting is performed. The source identifier may be or may include a user account identifier such as for example an account name or account number. When a comment is received and transmitted to a host server or at another appropriate time the client device may identify a source user account that was active when the comment data was received which may be assumed to be the comment source. The method may further include at identifying a website and destination user account as a prospective publication site of the user comment data based on further user input. For example the user may indicate that the comment data should be published at a particular social networking site or public forum site. The client may designate a user account to which she is authorized to publish at the site. In an alternative the host system may retain information identifying the source user account with authentication information provided by the user if required to publish the comment data with associated video data at a designated publication site. The method may further include at transmitting information identifying the prospective publication site of the user comment data to the computer server. In an alternative the prospective publication site may be determined by implication or by a default setting.

With reference to there is provided an exemplary apparatus that may be configured as client device computer server or combination of client and server for providing user comment data correlated to a temporal point in playback of audio video content. The apparatus may include functional blocks that can represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware .

As illustrated in one embodiment the apparatus may include an electrical component or means for detecting a time that input of user comment data is received during playback of audio video content on an electronic display device. For example the electrical component or means may include at least one control processor coupled to a memory component . The control processor may operate an algorithm which may be held as program instructions in the memory component. The algorithm may include for example incrementing a time variable initialized at inception of playing a video file detecting a data signal from a user input device designated as comment data and in response to detecting the signal storing a current value of the time variable in a memory with a link or association to the comment data. Time may be measured in seconds video frames or other units.

The apparatus may further include an electrical component or module for determining a temporal point relative to the playback of the audio video content correlated to the user comment data based on the time. For example the electrical component or means may include at least one control processor coupled to a memory component . The control processor may operate an algorithm which may be held as program instructions in the memory component. The algorithm may include for example determining a time offset value. Determining a time offset value may include for example retrieving a fixed value from a memory or calculating a variable time offset value based on one or more characteristics of the comment data. The algorithm may further include for example subtracting or adding the time offset value to the time detected by module .

The apparatus may further include an electrical component or module for transmitting the user comment data correlated to identifiers for the audio video content and the temporal point to a computer server. For example the electrical component or means may include at least one control processor coupled to a memory component . The control processor may operate an algorithm which may be held as program instructions in the memory component. The algorithm may include for example determining a network address of the computer server for transmitting the user comment data configuring an electronic message e.g. TCP IP including the comment data and identifiers for the audio video content and the temporal point addressing the message and providing the message to a router via a network interface component .

The apparatus may include similar electrical components for performing any or all of the additional operations described in connection with which for illustrative simplicity are not shown in .

In related aspects the apparatus may optionally include a processor component having at least one processor in the case of the apparatus configured to include a processor for a client device. The processor may be in operative communication with the components or similar components via a bus or similar communication coupling. The processor may effect initiation and scheduling of the processes or functions performed by electrical components .

In further related aspects the apparatus may include a network interface component enabling communication between a client and a server. The apparatus may include a component for storing information such as for example a memory device component . The computer readable medium or the memory component may be operatively coupled to the other components of the apparatus via the bus or the like. The memory component may be adapted to store computer readable instructions and data for implementing the processes and behavior of the components and subcomponents thereof or the processor or the methods disclosed herein. The memory component may retain instructions for executing functions associated with the components . While shown as being external to the memory it is to be understood that the components can exist within the memory .

Comment data and associated temporal point and video file identifiers provided via a client device in response to user input may be further processed by a system component for example by a computer server. As shown in the computer server may perform a method for providing a link to digital audio video content responsive to user comment data. The method may include at receiving from a source device an electronic transmission of user comment data correlated to identifiers for audio video content and a post inception temporal point in the audio video content. For example a user comment may be related to a particular video file using a video file identifier from an index or the like and provided with time data indicating a temporal point in video data. As noted in connection with the method and elsewhere the temporal point may indicate any point of a timeline for the video file intermediate between the timeline s inception and termination.

The method may further include at configuring a link to the audio video content including an indication of the post inception temporal point. For example the server may generate a text label thumbnail graphic label or combination thereof that indicates both an identity of the video file and the temporal point associated with the label. An example is provided at of . The server may couple an HTML XML or other link including a network address with the label in a web page object or the like. The server may select the network address locating an application that is capable of receiving identifiers for the video file and the temporal point and serving a video clip or streaming video content based on the identifiers. For example the application may serve the video content initiated at the temporal point. The server may configure the application by providing the video file in a data structure such that it can be accessed by the application.

The method may further include at providing the user comment data with the link to a website host for publication on a website. In an alternative the server may provide the link without the user comment data to the website host. In these alternative embodiments the user comment data may be retained with the audio video content at a host server separate from the website host. More detailed aspects of the providing are described elsewhere herein including in connection with below.

With reference to several additional operations and are depicted for providing a link to digital audio video content responsive to user comment data which may be performed by a computer server alone or in combination with a client device and or another server. One or more of operations and may optionally be performed as part of method . The elements and may be performed in any operative order or may be encompassed by a development algorithm without requiring a particular chronological order of performance. Operations can be independently performed and are not mutually exclusive. Therefore any one of such operations may be performed regardless of whether another downstream or upstream operation is performed. For example if the method includes at least one of the operations and then the method may terminate after the at least one operation without necessarily having to include any subsequent downstream operation s that may be illustrated.

In one embodiment with reference to the method may further include at generating a thumbnail image from a video frame indicative of the post inception temporal point of the audio video content. For example the server may select a frame of the video file corresponding to the temporal point and then generate a thumbnail image based on the selected frame using any suitable graphic processing technique for shrinking a digital image. The method may further include at configuring the link to include the thumbnail image for example by configuring the thumbnail image as an icon or other interactive object that in response to user input of a specified type activates the associated link.

With reference to the method may further include at receiving an identifier for the website host as a prospective publication site of the user comment data from the source device. The server may determine the identity of the website based on selection data supplied by the client device with the comment data for example selection data indicating a website selected by the user who provided the comment data. The server may provide the user comment data with the link to a website via an Application Programming Interface API or other interface for publishing user postings in a designated location. The method may further include at receiving an identifier for a destination user account at the website host from the source device and providing information identifying the destination user account to the website host. The server may include with the comment data and link provided to the publication site information identifying a user account topic and or other parameter. The website publishing the link and comment data may use the user account topic and or other parameter to select a web page and or configuration in which to publish the user comment data with the link.

With reference to the method may further include at providing the audio video content to the website host which may in turn serve the audio video content to client devices that activate the link. In an alternative perhaps more generally applicable approach the server may refrain from providing the audio video content to the website host and may instead serve the audio video content directly to client devices that activate the link published on the website. In some embodiments the audio video content may include the comment data for example in an overlay or parallel track. In such embodiments the server may refrain from providing the comment data to the website host and may instead serve the audio video content including the comment data directly to client devices that activate the link published on the website.

The method may further include at truncating the audio video content based on the post inception temporal point to provide truncated audio video content e.g. a video clip. As described herein above the server may select the beginning and terminal times of the video clip based on the temporal point. The method may further include providing the truncated audio video content e.g. video clip to the website host. In an alternative the video clip and or comment data may be retained by a data server apart from the website host.

With reference to there is provided an exemplary apparatus that may be configured as computer server client device or combination of client and server for providing a link to digital audio video content responsive to user comment data. The apparatus may include functional blocks that can represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware .

As illustrated in one embodiment the apparatus may include an electrical component or means for receiving from a source device an electronic transmission of user comment data correlated to identifiers for audio video content and a post inception temporal point in the audio video content. For example the electrical component or means may include at least one control processor coupled to a memory component . The control processor may operate an algorithm which may be held as program instructions in the memory component. The algorithm may include for example receiving a data transmission using a network protocol e.g. TCP IP processing the data transmission to discover the identifiers for the audio video content and the post inception temporal point and processing the data transmission to discover the comment data.

The apparatus may further include an electrical component or module for configuring a link to the audio video content including an indication of the post inception temporal point. For example the electrical component or means may include at least one control processor coupled to a memory component . The control processor may operate an algorithm which may be held as program instructions in the memory component. The algorithm may include for example querying a database based on the identifier for the audio video content to obtain more descriptive information regarding the content generating a text label thumbnail graphic label or combination thereof that includes both the descriptive information for the video file and the temporal point associated with the label.

The apparatus may further include an electrical component or module for providing the user comment data with the link to a website host for publication on a website. For example the electrical component or means may include at least one control processor coupled to a memory component . The control processor may operate an algorithm which may be held as program instructions in the memory component. The algorithm may include for example indentifying the website host and transmitting a message to the website host including at least the link with a publication request.

The apparatus may include similar electrical components for performing any or all of the additional operations and described in connection with which for illustrative simplicity are not shown in .

In related aspects the apparatus may optionally include a processor component having at least one processor in the case of the apparatus configured as a network entity. The processor in such case may be in operative communication with the components or similar components via a bus or similar communication coupling. The processor may effect initiation and scheduling of the processes or functions performed by electrical components .

In further related aspects the apparatus may include a network interface component enabling communication between a client and a server. The apparatus may optionally include a component for storing information such as for example a memory device component . The computer readable medium or the memory component may be operatively coupled to the other components of the apparatus via the bus or the like. The memory component may be adapted to store computer readable instructions and data for implementing the processes and behavior of the components and subcomponents thereof or the processor or the methods disclosed herein. The memory component may retain instructions for executing functions associated with the components . While shown as being external to the memory it is to be understood that the components can exist within the memory .

A server operating a social networking site or public forum site may perform a method for providing a link to audio video content referencing a temporal point for user comment data as shown in . The method may include at receiving a link to audio video content and to a post inception temporal point of the audio video content. The temporal point is post inception in the sense that it is a time point after the beginning or inception of the video timeline and may also be prior to the terminal or end time point of the video timeline. The link may be formatted for including in a Web page for example an HTML XML or other page. The link may include a description or other indicator of the audio video content and the post inception temporal point. In some embodiments the temporal point may be referenced by implication for example the link may reference an address specifically set up for a video clip or portion based on the temporal point. In alternative embodiments the link may include explicit data identifying the temporal point.

The method may include at publishing the link on a webpage. The webpage may be of various types for example a social networking site or public forum site. Further examples and more detailed aspects of publishing the link on a webpage are described elsewhere herein.

The method may include at initiating streaming of the audio video content to a client device at the post inception temporal point in response to detecting selection of the link. In an alternative initiation of the streaming may be performed by a separate computer server. Initiation of the streaming may be performed by any entity addressed by the link. Such entity should have access to a copy of the audio video content or portion thereof optionally including the comment data. Such entity may detect the selection of the link by receiving a message e.g. one or more TCP IP packets generated by a client device where the link is selected in response to user input.

With reference to several additional operations and are depicted for providing a link to audio video content referencing a temporal point for user comment data which may be performed by server for a social networking Web site or public forum Web site alone or in cooperation with a client device and or one or more additional servers. One or more of operations and may optionally be performed as part of method . The elements and may be performed in any operative order or may be encompassed by a development algorithm without requiring a particular chronological order of performance. Operations can be independently performed and are not mutually exclusive. Therefore any one of such operations may be performed regardless of whether another downstream or upstream operation is performed. For example if the method includes at least one of the operations and then the method may terminate after the at least one operation without necessarily having to include any subsequent downstream operation s that may be illustrated.

In one embodiment with reference to the method may further include at receiving comment data correlated to the link. An example in accordance with this feature is shown in at and . The method may include at publishing the comment data with the link. As shown in the publication server may display the comments in proximity to the link on the webpage.

The method may further include at displaying a thumbnail image from a video frame indicative of the post inception temporal point of the audio video content as an icon for the link. For example the thumbnail image may be generated from a video frame located at the temporal point. In addition the server may display a textual indication of the temporal point with the thumbnail image.

With reference to the method may further include at receiving an identifier for a user account with the link and selecting the webpage based on the user account. For example for a social networking site the server may select a home page for the user account or other web page determined based on the user account. In a first alternative embodiment the method may further include at configuring the webpage to include content submitted by a group of independent users identified with the user account. For example the page on which the link is published may be a page including content posted by the owner of the user account or the owner s designated friends or other designated group of independent users of the Web site. In a second alternative embodiment the method may include at configuring the webpage to include content submitted by a group of independent users identified with a second user account wherein the user account is identified as a member of the group of independent users. For example the page on which the link is published may be a page including content posted by the owner s designated friends or other group of independent users of the Web site designated by the owner.

With reference to there is provided an exemplary apparatus that may be configured as computer server client device or combination of client and server for providing a link to audio video content referencing a temporal point for user comment data. The apparatus may include functional blocks that can represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware .

As illustrated in one embodiment the apparatus may include an electrical component or means for receiving a link to audio video content and to a post inception temporal point of the audio video content. For example the electrical component or means may include at least one control processor coupled to a memory component . The control processor may operate an algorithm which may be held as program instructions in the memory component. The algorithm may include for example a program interface e.g. an API receiving information for posting on a website and processing received information to identify the link to audio video content and to the post inception temporal point.

The apparatus may further include an electrical component or module publishing the link on a webpage. For example the electrical component or means may include at least one control processor coupled to a memory component . The control processor may operate an algorithm which may be held as program instructions in the memory component. The algorithm may include for example automatically generating a webpage including the link configuring an address or a link to the webpage within a website of linked pages and placing the webpage in a publically accessible memory addressable via a Wide Area Network WAN or the like.

The apparatus may further include an electrical component or module for initiating streaming of the audio video content to a client device at the post inception temporal point in response to detecting selecting of the link. For example the electrical component or means may include at least one control processor coupled to a memory component . The control processor may operate an algorithm which may be held as program instructions in the memory component. The algorithm may include for example detecting the selection of the link by receiving a message e.g. one or more TCP IP packets generated by a client device where the link is selected in response to user input. The algorithm may further include retrieving the audio video content starting at the post inception temporal point configuring the content as streaming content packets and transmitting the streaming content packets to the client device.

The apparatus may include similar electrical components for performing any or all of the additional operations described in connection with which for illustrative simplicity are not shown in .

In related aspects the apparatus may optionally include a processor component having at least one processor in the case of the apparatus configured as a server for a website alone or in cooperation with another server and or a client device. The processor may be in operative communication with the components or similar components via a bus or similar communication coupling. The processor may implement initiation and scheduling of the processes or functions performed by electrical components .

In further related aspects the apparatus may include a network interface component enabling communication between a client and a server. The apparatus may optionally include a component for storing information such as for example a memory device component . The computer readable medium or the memory component may be operatively coupled to the other components of the apparatus via the bus or the like. The memory component may be adapted to store computer readable instructions and data for implementing the processes and behavior of the components and subcomponents thereof or the processor or the methods disclosed herein. The memory component may retain instructions for executing functions associated with the components . While shown as being external to the memory it is to be understood that the components can exist within the memory .

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an example of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

Those of skill in the art would understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present disclosure. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

