---

title: Method of inserting and removing information elements in ordered information element arrays
abstract: The present invention provides solutions to the potential undesirable effects the insertion and removal of information elements and documents may have on arrays and axes of information elements using a collation function to determine the position of information elements thereon. The invention can be effectuated as a method, a device and an apparatus carrying out the method described herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613167&OS=09613167&RS=09613167
owner: 9224-5489 QUEBEC INC.
number: 09613167
owner_city: Montreal
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120925
---
The present invention relates to and claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 538 879 filed Sep. 25 2011 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DISPLAYING INFORMATION ELEMENT AXES which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates generally to computer systems adapted to insert information elements in information element axes. The present invention more specifically relates to methods and apparatuses for reducing and preventing confusion when information elements are inserted in displayed array of information elements.

Axes of documents present documents thereon in a predetermined fashion. They are displayed on the axis in a collated manner that is they are sorted on an axis in a specific order often chronological. Moreover documents displayed on these axes share one or more attributes. The attribute is a certain descriptive element ascribed to a document by a user.

A document can have one or more attributes. For example one s picture taken on a vacation trip to Mexico can have the following attributes Mexico 2012 trip Mary and the dog on the beach and June 2012 cocktail party. The picture therefore was taken during someone s trip to Mexico which took place sometimes in June of 2012. Moreover this picture is one where Mary the protagonist of the picture is with her dog on the beach.

The number of documents displayed on an axis varies. The length of the axes upon which these documents are displayed fluctuates as well in dependence of the number of documents they contain. Given their nature and purpose to graphically display the documents of which they are composed axes actual lengths differ in dependence of the number of documents they have. Some axes might have as little as one document while others might contain more.

Axes are visible on a display area for example a computer screen. The display area can reveal more than one axis at a time. Some axis with a small number of documents can be fully displayed on the display area as their lengths are relatively short and can easily fit within the frame of the display area. Others however which have a relatively high number of documents cannot be fully shown on the display area and therefore are partially visible on a display area. The viewer consequently can access the non displayed documents of the axes by scrolling to the right or to the left of the display area in dependence of the location of the document s searched.

Changes made to documents in an axis can drastically change the location of the documents on the respective axis. For example if a certain axis contains 10 documents and if 20 more of such similar documents are added to the respective axis within a small time frame a few seconds the initial 10 documents which were present on the axis can either be dislocated to the right or the left sides of the axis so that the other 20 documents can now be aligned on the axis. The axis becomes larger as a result of this very addition of documents.

Similarly documents can also be removed from a certain axis. If the initial number of documents on an axis were 30 and if 20 documents were simultaneously removed from the axis the remaining 10 documents would be subject to an automatic movement towards the center of the axis.

Documents are added on an axis when they receive one attribute that defines the rest of the documents on that respective axis. Documents are removed or consequently deleted from an axis when they are no longer defined by the attribute that once linked them to that respective axis.

The addition and the removal of documents on an axis are less significant to the viewer when the specific axis is not visible on the display area. Stating differently if someone were to look at an axis containing five documents sharing the common attribute higher education in Canada the five documents being all displayed on the display area s he would not notice any changes on the visual display if 20 other documents were simultaneously being added to two other axes nonvisible on the display area. This scenario however would not apply if the same 20 documents were being added to the axis with the five documents on higher education in Canada . The viewer would notice the graphical enlargement of the axis displayed on the screen as a result of this addition. Moreover the initial five documents on the axis would be consequently displaced either to the right or left of the axis to provide the necessary space for the new documents addition.

Changes in the number of documents present on an axis are therefore more significant to the viewer when the axis is visible on the display area. By significant one refers to the effects these changes can have on the viewer s . Document displacements on the display area can lead to various undesirable consequences to the viewer such as loss of focus on a document s occurrence of at least one unintended error in the viewing modification and or management of a document s possible disorientation perplexity and or puzzlement of the viewer caused by the change in the layout of document s and unforeseen and unintended dissatisfaction and frustration of the viewer. These are mere examples and do not embody the total number of possible outcomes that might arise as a result of document displacements and or axes dislocations on the display area.

Documents dislocations on axes may cause the axes to displace. Stated differently axes to which documents were inserted and or removed may move themselves to the right or to the left of the display area in order to adjust to the updated number of documents they contain. This phenomenon also can cause unwanted consequences on the viewer some of which were listed above.

A user can manage one s own documents. In other words one can add and or remove documents from an axis. This axis may or not be visible on the display area. Its visibility on the display area is caused by the user s exploration of one or more of its documents on the display area.

Moreover a user can manage attributes associated with these respective documents. When the managing of attributes by the user does occur significant changes in the way documents are sorted and therefore listed on an axis can occur. Documents on an axis may be dislocated to the right or to the left of the axis.

Needless to say there is a positive correlation between the number of documents added and or removed on a certain axis and the potential undesirable impact these changes have on the user. The greater is the number of documents that are added or removed from an axis the greater is the impact on the layout and the graphical display of the documents on this axis.

More than one user can manage and share documents on a specific axis at a given time. By sharing on refers to the act of holding the right to assign and or remove attributes to documents. For example a first user can manage one s attributes. However the association and or disassociation of attributes will affect another user. Needless to explain the impact of these changes can be significant especially when the other user views on the display area an axis or several axes presenting documents associated with the attributes subjected to simultaneous changes by another user.

Documents can modify their location on the axes in a precipitous manner and without prior warning. This increases the likelihood of confusion and frustration caused to the viewer of these axes both most likely arising from the potential unintended error s one can commit as a result of these sudden changes on the axes.

It is therefore highly desirable to have a mechanism preventing or reducing confusion and frustration caused by the addition and or removal of documents from displayed axes.

It is also desirable to orderly present the changes on the axes visible on the display area in order to help the viewer understand the changes that are taken place.

It is yet desirable to display warnings of the changes that are occurring on the axes as a result of the addition and or removal of the documents and to offer the viewer of the display area choices of actions matching one s needs.

It is desirable also to inform the viewer of the number and identity of the user s who have added and or removed documents on the displayed axes.

Moreover it is also necessary to have a system that would analyze and assess the viewer s behavior in respect to the display area in order to decide the best action s to be undertaken in terms of the location where a document or documents may be best added and or removed on axis shown on the display area so that its their insertion and or removal would cause little or no undesirable effects on the viewer.

It is equally desirable to offer the viewer the proper means to control and manage the number of and time when at least modifications to documents viewable in the display area can take place.

Other deficiencies will become apparent to one skilled in the art to which the invention pertains in view of the following summary and detailed description with its appended figures.

One aspect of the present invention aims to alleviate one or more of the shortcomings of the background art by addressing one or more of the existing needs in the art.

The following presents a simplified summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The invention is generally described as a method a system a device and or a graphical user interface used to represent multiple computer files documents or other data on axes in an axis based graphical user interface GUI .

Aspects of our work provide a method and system preventing and reducing viewer s confusion and potential errors the viewer might commit when documents are added or removed from displayed axes. The system allows the viewer to efficiently navigate the documents on axes present on the display area or a portion thereof when additional documents are being added and or removed on the displayed axes simultaneously and or at later time. This is made possible by the indications provided by the system concerning these modifications and by the means to manage these modifications accordingly in accordance with at least one embodiment.

One aspect of the instant invention provides a method an apparatus and a graphical user interface adapted to present arrays of documents as a single axis row or column or a plurality thereof and in which the distribution of documents is graphically affected by the addition and or the removal of other documents therefrom. The respective method apparatus and graphical user interface allow for a smooth transition from the original graphical layout of documents to the final one caused by the addition and or removal of documents therefrom in accordance with at least one embodiment.

Another aspect of the invention provides a method and a system intended for the user to be warned and consequently offered choices of action in light of the addition and or removal of documents on the displayed axes in accordance with at least one embodiment.

Another aspect of the invention offers a method and a system where the displayed longitudinal side of the axis wider to the pointing device remains motionless on the screen and the opposite longitudinal side of the axis adjusts to make room for the new documents to be displayed or removed from an axis in accordance with at least one embodiment.

Another aspect of the invention presents a method a system and a graphical user interface where the displayed longitudinal side of the axis in respect with the insertion location remains fixed on the screen while its opposite side adjusts to make room for new documents to be displayed and or removed on the axis in accordance with at least one embodiment.

The present invention provides a mechanism adapted to prevent a viewer of displayed documents from being confused by the modifications caused to the documents by another user. Given that these modifications are not performed by the viewer the latter may find them confusing especially when documents presence and lack thereof and location on a specific axis are being subject to constant and impromptu changes in accordance with at least one embodiment.

In one aspect of the invention the user can decide a fixed and or maximum space one would allow for supplementary documents to be added and or removed from a specific axis shown on the display area in accordance with at least one embodiment.

A further aspect of the instant invention provides a functionality adapted to move and or remove documents shared by another user immediately and or after a predetermined delay in accordance with at least one embodiment.

Another aspect of the present invention provides a functionality adapted to display the added and or removed documents in an expanded or contracted manner and or or within a fixed set space dictated or not by the viewer in accordance with at least one embodiment.

In one other aspect of the instant invention a mechanism is provided to identify the documents that have been added and or removed from a specific axis as a result of the actions of another user s in accordance with at least one embodiment.

One aspect of the invention provides a method of managing movements of information elements on an array of information elements the method comprising displaying a plurality of information elements on the array of information elements on a basis of a collation function adding at least one information element to the plurality of displayed information elements identifying a collation position of the at least one information element on the array of information elements moving at least some of the displayed plurality of information elements on the array of information elements in a direction on a basis of a reference to create a space for displaying the added at least one information element on the array of information elements and displaying the added at least one information element to the array of information elements at its collection position on the array of information elements in accordance with at least one embodiment.

One other aspect of the invention provides a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer readable instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform operations for managing documents in relation with representations of objects displayed with a computer the operations comprising displaying a plurality of information elements on the array of information elements on a basis of a collation function adding at least one information element to the plurality of displayed information elements identifying a collation position of the at least one information element on the array of information elements moving at least some of the displayed plurality of information elements on the array of information elements in a direction on a basis of a reference to create a space for displaying the added at least one information element on the array of information elements and displaying the added at least one information element to the array of information elements at its collection position on the array of information elements in accordance with at least one embodiment.

An aspect of the present invention provides a device comprising a processor configured to present a graphical user interface for displaying and managing information elements the graphical interface comprising areas adapted to provides the operations comprising displaying a plurality of information elements on the array of information elements on a basis of a collation function adding at least one information element to the plurality of displayed information elements identifying a collation position of the at least one information element on the array of information elements moving at least some of the displayed plurality of information elements on the array of information elements in a direction on a basis of a reference to create a space for displaying the added at least one information element on the array of information elements and displaying the added at least one information element to the array of information elements at its collection position on the array of information elements in accordance with at least one embodiment.

Each of the embodiments of the present invention has at least one of the above mentioned objects and or aspects but does not necessarily have all of them. It should be understood that some aspects of the present invention that have resulted from attempting to attain the above mentioned objects may not satisfy these objects and or may satisfy other objects not specifically recited herein.

Additional and or alternative features aspects and advantages of embodiments of the present invention will become apparent from the following description the accompanying drawings and the appended claims.

Our work is now described with reference to the figures. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention by way of embodiment s . It may be evident however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances when applicable well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the present invention.

The features provided in this specification mainly but might not exclusively relate to principles of computer software and machine readable code instructions adapted to instruct a computer many computers or other machines adapted to use the instructions to provide material effects on a display or other means enabling human computer interactions to manage documents menus user selectable elements and other computer files. These code instructions are preferably stored on a machine readable medium to be read and acted upon with a computer or machine having the appropriate code instructions reading capability.

The client devices may include devices such as mainframes minicomputers personal computers laptops personal digital assistants phones or the like capable of connecting to the network . The client devices may transmit data over the network or receive data from the network via a wired wireless or optical connection.

The servers may include one or more types of computer systems such as a mainframe minicomputer or personal computer capable of connecting to the network to enable servers to communicate with the client devices . In alternative implementations the servers may include mechanisms for directly connecting to one or more client devices . The servers may transmit data over the network or receive data from the network via a wired wireless or optical connection.

In an implementation consistent with the present invention illustratively embodied herein the servers may include a search engine usable by the client devices . The servers may store documents such as web pages accessible by the client devices .

With reference to a network includes the content cloud a content database content devices and other devices . The network mediator enables network devices to communicate with each other without pre configuring each device . The content cloud represents a content source such as the Internet where content exists at various locations across the globe that could be reached through a wired connection and or with a wireless connection provided by an antenna . The content includes multimedia content such as audio and video. The mediator allows the content cloud to provide content to devices . The database is a storage device that maintains content. The database may be a standalone device on an external communication network. The mediator communicates with the database to access and retrieve content. The content devices include intelligent devices such as for example personal computers laptops cell phones and personal digital assistants. The content devices are capable or storing content data. The devices are intelligent devices that receive content from other content devices . However the devices can also operate as servers to distribute content to other client devices if desirable.

The following discussion provides a brief general description of an exemplary computer apparatus in which at least some aspects of the present invention may be implemented. The present invention will be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computerized device. However methods of the present invention may be affected by other apparatuses. Program modules may include routines programs objects components data structures applets WEB 2.0 type of evolved networked centered applications etc. that perform a task s or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that at least some aspects of the present invention may be implemented with other configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor system microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network computers minicomputers set top boxes mainframe computers gaming consoles and the like. At least some aspects of the present invention may also be carried out in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices linked through a communications network as exemplified in . In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in local and or remote memory storage devices .

With reference to an exemplary apparatus for implementing at least some aspects of the present invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer or in the form of a computerized portable apparatus. The computer may include a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory may include read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing basic routines that help to transfer data between elements within the computer such as during start up may be stored in ROM . The computer may also include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a e.g. removable magnetic disk and an optical drive for reading from or writing to a removable magneto optical disk such as a compact disk or other magneto optical media. The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and magneto optical drive may be coupled with the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and a magneto optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated storage media provide non volatile or persistent storage of machine readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . Although the exemplary environment described herein employs a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk those skilled in the art will appreciate that other types of storage media such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks Bernoulli cartridges random access memories RAMs read only memories ROM remote cloud storage and the like may be used instead of or in addition to the storage devices introduced above.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk magneto optical disk ROM or RAM such as an operating system for example WINDOWS NT 4.0 sold by MICROSOFT Corporation of Redmond Wash. one or more application programs other program modules such as ALICE which is a research system developed by the User Interface Group at Carnegie Mellon University available at www.Alice.org OPENGL from Silicon Graphics Inc. of Mountain View Calif. or DIRECT 3D from Microsoft Corp. of Bellevue Wash. and or program data for example.

A user may enter commands and data into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard a camera and a pointing device referred to as a Mouse Other input devices not shown such as a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner a touch sensitive screen accelerometers or a motion sensor detector such as KINECT that are adapted to sense movements of the user or movements of a device or the like may also be included. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface coupled to the system bus . However input devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port a game port BLUETOOTH connection or a universal serial bus USB . For example since the bandwidth of the camera may be too great for the serial port the video camera may be coupled with the system bus via a video capture card not shown . The video monitor or other type of display device referred to as a monitor may also be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter for example. The video adapter may include a graphics accelerator. One or more speakers may be connected to the system bus via a sound card e.g. a wave table synthesizer such as product number AWE64 Gold Card from Creative Labs of Milpitas Calif. . In addition to the monitor and speaker s the computer may include other peripheral output devices not shown such as a printer a hi definition television and a scanner for example. As an alternative or an addition to the video monitor a stereo video output device such as a head mounted display or LCD shutter glasses for example could be used.

The computer may operate in a networked environment defining logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be another computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and may include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an intranet and the Internet.

When used in a LAN the computer may be connected to the LAN through a network interface adapter or NIC . When used in a WAN such as the Internet the computer may include a modem or other means for establishing communications over the wide area network e.g. WI FI WINMAX . The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface or another type of port interface. In a networked environment at least some of the program modules depicted relative to the computer may be stored in the remote memory storage device . The network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

The exemplary network and the exemplary computer system described above are adapted to carry on the following embodiments 

A system is depicted in which may represent the functionalities described in the instant application when run on an apparatus for instance a computer such as has been previously described. The computer may in turn be connected to a server comprising a set of program modules enabling functions including but not limited to computing document rendering network communication application configuration and local database management.

The software system illustratively consists of a collection of at least twelve modules independent from those of the server that together carry out the method required for the functionalities to be visible on a graphical user interface and usable by the user. As illustrated additional modules may also be used in conjunction with the twelve base modules.

A computing module provides a means to circulate data between users the other modules and the apparatus . The computing module is adapted to convert queries which may be system based or user based into graphical rendering in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention. The other modules are configured to send to and receive data from the computing module and to individually or collectively interact with other modules .

An application configuration module provides software configuration to manage application settings and open connections to other servers . Other modules may use the application configuration module to manage their behavior to satisfy user specific needs.

A data elements management module may be used in conjunction with other modules to manage data elements such as documents contained in a database in response to a query . The data elements management module may use any kind of database connection and may use a network communication module in order to access a database through a network on a server computer . The network communication module may use several protocols in order to communicate with a server computer such as IPv4 IPv6 TCP UDP ODBC HTTP WebDAV SSH IMAP and even define its own specific communication protocol. The data elements management module may also be used in conjunction with an email connectivity module and network communication module in order to treat and represent emails in the same way as the data elements of a database . The data elements management module may also be used in conjunction with the permissions module on the client or server side in order to control the user access to elements based by some sort of sharing rules. The data elements management module may also work in conjunction with a caches module providing client side cached versions of the database and files in order to respond to future requests faster. Modules may be made to communicate information in a standardized way by the use of an Application Programming Interface API in order to simplify the data elements management module s interactions with other modules .

The data elements management module may sort through documents stored in the database and connected to each other via a variety of referencing modes may apply a filter as specified in a query and may subsequently direct the filtered documents to other modules this will be shown in . One such module may be an axis ordering module which may distribute documents filtered by the data elements management module onto an axis like array or axis illustrated in according to a collation function that may be user or system specified and analyzed by the computing module . An axis or axis like array is an embodiment of graphical rendering of the functionalities described in the present specification on a device s display that can be embodied as a substantially rectilinear sequence of documents from which a viewer can infer meaning and or relationships therebetween. An axial distribution of documents is adapted to accommodate and display a single type of documents or if desirable more than one type of documents computer files multimedia contents user selectable elements and or user selectable menu elements. Generally an axis is used to graphically group information elements having a commonality. Other functionalities related to axes shall be described in greater detail below.

The axis ordering module may manage the ordering of single documents and or several documents assembled into document sets onto one or more axes . In addition of managing the collation of documents onto an axis the axis ordering module may also manage the order of the documents contained within secondary documents sets not illustrated . The positioning module manages the positioning of documents within axes based on interactions with other modules processing the various elements contained in a query . The positioning module is adapted to and may interpret data contained in document sets generated by the data elements management module in relationship to the query to identify a location for a given document set within the collation of an axis . Likewise a visually distinctive features management module is adapted to interpret data contained in documents or document sets generated by the data elements management module in relationship to the query to selectively apply one or more visually distinctive features not illustrated in this figure to single documents or document sets . Finally a display management module may inter alia manage elements related to the user interface possibly interacting with a graphics card and a monitor . The display management module may use a document rendering module that provides instructions to render specific documents like images text files word processing files spreadsheet files presentation files etc. The document rendering module may also provide an API to let developers add their own extensions to deliver to renderers other document types.

Multiple core functionalities could be integrated to provide core operating system services. A graphical layer framework component could be built over the graphics API component and could be used to provide complex drawing capabilities. The layer based graphics layer framework component may also supports widgets rendering and handling like buttons text fields dialogs etc. A network management component could be based on pre existing network management capabilities in the operating system core and kernel . It could serve as a tool to manage an Internet network connection through ETHERNET BLUETOOTH WI FI Modem and other communication channels. A utility component could handle all the other services needed to communicate with the operating system core and kernel providing functionalities such as user login user authentication memory disk access management etc. Using these modules the axis based user interface would use core functionalities from the graphical layer framework component the network management component and the utility component to provide workspaces comprising multiple axes or groups of axes that display documents not shown in . The axis based user interface may also provide more integrated actions like interface buttons preview or magnification that may be directly docketed. Another component a system preferences management component would provide multiple functions needed by the axis based user interface such as dialogs to manage document insertion attribute definitions users permissions application configuration etc. Finally the operating system may comprise a window management system emulation module . This module may be based on an X WINDOW SYSTEM or X11 and may use other existing client application libraries to provide a large number of applications as well as functionalities to run windowed applications on top of the axis based user interface . To provide other functionalities third party application providers could build third party core modules on top of the axis based user interface and system preferences management module . Third party application providers could also develop third party software environments and other applications that could be run using the window management system emulation providing the user with useful applications such as an Internet Browser Office Business Applications Multimedia Applications Games etc.

The Window Management System Emulation could also offer functions to provide a more axis based user interface integration such as previews player and editors for the documents displayed in the axis based user interface . For example a rich text document could use a third party module or third party software environment to provide a previewer or media player for the document or a third party application to integrate a live editor on the axis based user interface .

This computer system could be used for instance as a business solution to provide users with an axis based user interface operating system directly on multiple kinds of devices computers laptop tablets cell phones etc. . The computer system may also illustratively be used as a business solution to sell preconfigured devices with the axis based user interface . Since the operating system has a built in axis based user interface the device is likely to have a display and other input device like a keyboard a mouse or a touch screen interface. The devices may not necessarily provide such parts and may be adapted to be used by communicating information about the user interface and input methods with other devices television set motion sensing input device computer or tablet over network cell phone etc. 

The graphical user interface may run through the operating system and the hardware of the computer system or alternatively through a network based system e.g. client server and cloud computing system as exemplified in and . The interface is adapted to display and manage information elements generally provided on a basis of a query which may be stored in one or many databases as illustrated in that might be distributed in a combination of locations e.g. multiple databases web cloud etc. . Information elements may include computer files pictures multimedia content applications i.e. computer programs menu elements sets of icons and or other user selectable elements all of which shall henceforth be indiscriminately referred to as documents to lighten the text without limiting the scope of the present invention.

An axis based graphical interface is adapted to graphically structure documents in arrays that arrange the documents in rows and or columns in a reasonably regular fashion and to allow navigation thereof by the user further to a query . The axis based layout and ordering provide the user with information about the content of each document its meaning and its relationships to the other documents disposed on the axis . Navigation tools are provided with the axis based user interface to allow navigation through the documents of a single axis and of various axes when a plurality of axes is enabled. The display of documents on an array or axis therefore allows contextual management of documents as a flow or an ongoing rational sequence of documents . An axis based interface thus helps to intuitively display a group of documents and facilitate understanding and managing large sequences of documents bearing a relation.

In a simplified exemplary form an array may be embodied as an axis of documents herein below referred to as axis to lighten the text which groups documents in a single row or column as illustrated in . An axis can be embodied as a substantially rectilinear arrangement of documents adapted to dispose each document on a straight or curved line. The axis can be embodied as completely straight rectilinear slightly curved substantially curved circular angled following a particular shape or have a consistent shape over which documents are disposed in a reasonably consistent fashion. The exact shape of the axis as well as its disposition can vary horizontal vertical or other in relation to the device s display . What matters inter alia is that the layout structure of an axis provides a sequence of documents from which a viewer can infer meaning logical connections contextual location and or relationships.

The axis can be represented as a single axis a double axis or more axes . Axes may be independent from one another using distinct scales or orderings henceforth referred to as collation functions or may form a group of axes by sharing the same scale or collation function . Also a document attribute or other property of an element contained in an axis can be selected and used as a logical connector to create an additional axis from an existing axis . This subsidiary axis is meant to be temporary in some embodiments serving as a way to view a specific set of additional documents or highlight certain documents from the original axis without having to alter the entire workspace . It may originate from the logical connector document or information element and be disposed in non parallel fashion thereto. The subsidiary axis s position is preferably orthogonal to the original axis . However the angle may vary. Like axes logically connected axes may be scrollable. More such logically connected axes can subsequently be created in the same fashion. Navigation among axes and subsidiary axes could be called relational navigation .

Axes may be disposed horizontally and or vertically. Groups of axes may be presented using one of the layouts or combining both. The axes presented in the embodiments below are generally illustrated in the horizontal layout configuration. However they could all or in majority be disposed vertically without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other possible graphical layouts of documents might become obvious to a skilled reader in light of the present application and would be considered within the scope of this application.

When only a portion of the axis is visible a play of zoom pan and scrolling movements along the axis allows a user to navigate the axis and change the series of documents that are displayed in the display area of the display . Scrolling movements can be performed in a variety of ways including but not limited to click and drag pressing on the keys of a keyboard gesturing to a motion sensor or on a touch screen.

Documents might overlap or decrease in size so as to fit or maximize the space available in the display area . Selected documents on an axis can be magnified to increase the level of detail shown. Similarly a small display area could display only one document out of the entire axis . The remaining documents would not be shown in the display area but would yet remain at their respective virtual position on the axis ready to be displayed upon scrolling the axis . In other words if we consider a mobile platform like a mobile phone having a small display the small display might only allow to efficiently exhibit one document at a time. However given that the displayed document is part of an axis the other documents on the axis would remain displayable in accordance with their respective position on the axis when the axis is scrolled navigated gestured.

The documents are selected to be disposed on the axis on the basis of one or more attributes and are ordered thereon according to a collation function namely an ordered arrangement made by comparison e.g. a chronological order adapted to use a time scale . The attribute s and collation function parameters are specified in a query that may be run by a user or by an automated function of the system. Indeed each axis groups documents in accordance with for example a selected tag category keyword document creator or other attribute that expresses a characterization of one or more document s and that are configurable to represent intrinsic or extrinsic characteristics. The term attribute will generally be used throughout the instant specification to lighten the reading of the text and will encompass other document properties or means for establishing commonality or relationships as described above unless otherwise specified.

Attributes may be user specified or system specified. Generally documents bear a plurality of attributes assigned by one or more user s e.g. keyword subject project creator category etc. and a plurality of attributes that are assigned by the system such as illustratively file type time of creation number of views time of last modification file size etc. Given the broad range of applicability of the present invention the attributes that may be assigned by the system and user as well as the attributes that can be desirable to use in the management of axes might substantially vary from one field or user to another and however remain within the scope of present specification.

The selection of one or more attributes using Boolean logic for instance in a query determines which documents will be displayed on the axis . If no specific attribute is selected the axis will display all documents in a default order like the date of creation thereof. Thus all documents on the same axis are normally associated with the selected set or combination of attributes that are used as parameters for the axis . Third party data like publicity or user targeted information could also be added to an axis either arbitrarily or according to user information filtering and or existing collation of axes without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The documents illustrated in feature attributes individually represented by a capital letter thereon or none in which case the documents are left blank. Letter attributes are used in the present application for illustrative purposes only while letter attributes are theoretically possible. More descriptive attributes such as those described above are used in embodiments of the present invention. As is shown in any document can simultaneously feature multiple attributes some user specified and others system specified. In fact a preferred embodiment of the invention assigns a plurality of attributes to every document . Other documents illustrated on are blank or without any associated attribute illustrating documents that could theoretically not be assigned any attribute but that could nonetheless be created and found in a query e.g. a query that would select all documents contained in the database .

The query in here illustratively filters and selects documents from the database based on attribute A for display on the axis . further illustrates that the documents selected from the database by the query are placed on the axis in chronological order another parameter that could be specified in the query . Indeed an axis also generally disposes the documents resulting from the query in accordance with a specified order or collation function e.g. chronological order alphabetical order statistical order increasing file size etc. . A collation function might include dividing the axis into successive collation units e.g. time units in the case of a chronological order which can illustratively be hours days months years etc. . A collation function would thus dispose each document along the axis according to the value of a specified attribute in relation to the collation units of the axis and the other documents of the selected document set . Among collation functions a chronological distribution of documents on a time scale is used in most embodiments of our work because of its intuitiveness because any action or event takes place at a specific time and usually in sequence with other events or actions . While an axis disposing documents in random fashion is also contemplated within the scope of the present specification axes disposing documents according to a collation function are illustrated embodiments because of the usefulness of ordering documents .

An axis or a group of axes may be embodied in a linear configuration or a non linear configuration . Both configurations are illustrated in in a generic example. As can be appreciated from a linear configuration displays collation units of the same graphical longitudinal size regardless of the number of documents contained in each collation unit . The size of the documents located within a given collation unit can optionally be adjusted in accordance with the number of documents located therein. For instance documents will be larger if there are few documents in the collation unit and smaller if many documents are found therein. Alternatively the documents can remain the same size and can overlap or be stacked when their quantity exceeds the available space. Another possible way of making large numbers of documents fit into a fixed size collation unit is to equip the collation unit with a scroll bar allowing the user to navigate the collation unit to reveal hidden documents . This also means that documents in a linear configuration may be displayed as an uneven sequence from a graphical point of view. Ultimately a collation unit in a linear configuration containing no document will appear as empty or as a blank space on the display but will still be the same size as the other collation units of the axis .

Conversely the non linear configuration displays collation units of uneven longitudinal sizes because an even distribution of documents along the axis prevails over the linearity of the collation. In other words document size and a constant flow of documents along the axis are given primacy over having collation units of equal graphical size. This provides a more efficient use of the space on the axes but may provide less meaning to illustrate an evolution along time.

Conversely the non linear configuration displays collation units of uneven longitudinal sizes because an even distribution of documents along the axis prevails over the linearity of the collation. In other words document size and a constant flow of documents along the axis are given primacy over having collation units of equal graphical size. This provides a more efficient use of the space on the axes but may provide less meaning to illustrate an evolution along time.

Documents are not the only items one could find on an axis like array . Videos menu options emails and numerous other types of information elements can also be displayed on an axis like array . However for the purpose of explaining and describing this invention the Figures presented herein will only reserve to axes with documents only.

In the axis like array documents are laid out in a linear fashion based on the framework set out by the collation units . By linear we refer to the idea that documents are arranged and extended along a straight horizontal line.

A collation unit collects and combines certain elements on an axis . In the case of the collation units gather and combine documents in a certain predetermined order.

The collation unit is chronological in nature. That is documents are organized on the axis like array according to time units t t t t and t that are equally spaced. The time scale specifies the division of time. For example it can be by hour day month or year.

The collation function makes it possible for time units to align accordingly on the axis based on a certain time scale . Moreover these time units are moving progressively to the right. The time unit markers identify the beginning and end of a time unit .

The collation units do not have to be chronological per se. For example they can be alphabetical as well or based on a certain feature or identity set out by the user.

Some collation units contain more documents than other ones. This is because on a linear axis the collation units are equally spaced from each other and therefore of the same length. As a result it will often be the case that some collation units will be empty and some full or partially full of documents. illustrates this very phenomenon. The time unit t for example contains only one document . Time unit t is full while time unit t empty of documents . It is thus safe to assume that not all axes displaying documents or any other elements such the axis of documents depicted in are comprised of collation units that are equally spaced.

Axes that have non equally spaced collation units are called non linear axes . Notably the variation in length of the collation units is the one major distinctive feature that sets non linear axes apart from the linear ones .

Non equally spaced collations units presented in are adapted to present documents to be shown on the axis in a regular consecutive and chronological manner. There is no space between them only separators when a time unit change occurs. In this Figure these separators are marked as time unit markers .

The linear axis configuration presented in is also illustrated in . The difference lies in the fact that shows how the documents exhibited on the linear axis can be viewed on display areas . A computer or telephone screen can serve as a display area . These however are mere examples. Possibilities of devices and apparatuses upon which axes of documents or any kind of elements can be displayed are numerous.

When examining from left to right one notices that the display area closest to the left side of the visually fully displays two documents belonging to the time unit and one document belonging to the time unit t. The display area shown in the center of shows two documents belonging to the time unit t while the display area to the right side of fails to bring to light any documents as the time unit t which is shown on this display area contains no documents . To summarize schematically points out that the portion of a linear axis or the whole axis when visible on a display area may display some or no documents moreover it may potentially present on the display area empty space as well.

Non linear axes in general when visible on a display area show documents or any other elements while failing to reveal any empty and therefore non occupied by or any other document and or element space. The following examples from further illustrate this 

The display area to the utmost left side of presents the document with a visually distinctive feature . This display area shows fully three documents belonging to the time unit t. Moreover it partially reveals two other documents belonging to the same time unit t.

The display area in the center of shows fully two documents one belonging to the time unit t and another to the time unit t. Furthermore this display area shows partially two other documents one belonging to the time unit t and the other to time unit t.

Similarly the display area to the right side of shows three documents belonging to time unit t. Another partially displayed documents belongs to the time unit t. seeks to illustrate that a non linear axis with documents when visible on a display area shows documents without revealing any empty space.

The documents within the display area belong to three different time units one of which is shown fully on the display area . The beginning and end of this time unit are marked by two time unit markers . Document . is the last fully displayed document shown on the left side of the display area .

Within the time unit fully shown on the display area there are two documents with a visually distinctive feature described in greater length in the discussion about . The actual visual feature assigned to these documents is different on each of them. This is so that the viewer can discriminate between the two with little or no difficulty. also shows two more documents with a visually distinctive feature . Both are located to the outmost left side of . One of which is the first document displayed on the axis as it is located next to the beginning of the axis .

Not all the documents present on the axis shown in are displayed in the display area . Some of them are outside of the viewing space. One document with a visually displayed feature is shown outside of the display area on the left side of . Two documents along with a portion of a document are displayed outside the display area on the right side of . shows only the beginning of the axis implying that there are documents on the axis beyond the ones displayed in the Figure.

There are two ways documents can be inserted on a document when it is already existent and is given an attribute based on which the axis is defined by the user and when is created or imported by a user. Both these actions result in the same effect namely in the addition of a document on an axis . In a network collaborative work context multiple users can simultaneously insert or change attributes of elements distributed on one or more axes .

Due to the insertion of document all the documents within and outside of the display area shifted to the right in order to make room for the newly added document . Moreover the document is now partially located outside the display area in .

In the same document is inserted on the right side of the axis outside of the display area . This insertion causes the document to move to the right as arrow indicates it outside of the display area . demonstrate how the insertion of a document on a non linear axis outside the display area does not necessarily affect the visual display of documents within the display area .

Moreover illustrates a possible solution to the problem that might arise as a result of the removal of documents from the display area . The cross signs mark the two documents that have been removed from the display area . In order to avoid the possible movement of the rest of the documents within the display area as a result of their removal the space that these two documents once occupied on the display area remains static and unchanged. The two documents that were removed remain listed on the axis within the display area and are being marked by the cross sign .

The cross sign presented in is for illustrative purposes only and may be substituted by other means seeking to identify the documents that were removed from the display area from those that were not. therefore represents one aspect of the embodiment in which the removal of documents from the display area of an axis may not affect the viewer of the display area .

The display area also exhibits four other noteworthy documents three of which are documents with a visually distinctive feature . The other one document . is located to the left of the document ..

A pointing device embodied in as a cursor points towards the document .. The cursor may indicate the viewer s intention to deal with the document . and therefore serves as a reference aka reference point indicator based upon which the addition and or removal of documents may take place within and outside of the display area .

The reference based upon which the addition and or removal of documents may take place within and outside of the display area may be embodied for example as the position of the cursor as shown in . It may also be embodied as a line defined in relation to the viewer s activity ies in relation to the elements of the axis es displayed within the display area or as a collation position. Moreover the reference based upon which the addition and or removal of documents may take place within and outside of the display area may be also identified for example via a multi point sensing device.

The reference may be static or dynamic. The static reference is not subject to dislocation as a result of the viewer s activity on the display area . The static reference may be embodied as a line displaying vertically the center of the display area . For example it is presented in as the center of the display area . The line indicating the center of the display area is not shown to the user. It may also be embodied as a vertical line located on the display area as shown in as the vertical line . This line as well is not revealed to the user.

The dynamic reference aligns itself to the movement of the pointing device which may be embodied for example as a cursor or the position and alignment of the viewer s eyes in relation to the display area .

The possibilities of the actions one might want to undertake in respect to the document . are numerous. It may be the case for example that the viewer might want to open it observe its content read it and or send it to someone else as an attachment in an email. However due to the possible sudden dislocation of the document . the viewer might unintentionally target another document . instead of the one the viewer initially intended to target. In this case the viewer might click for example or touch with one s finger s a document other than the one initially intended to be targeted. This might cause frustration to the viewer especially when accuracy in one s work and deadlines to accomplish a certain task may be of great importance to the user. Undesirable consequences to the viewer as a result of the insertion of the document are most likely to occur especially when the insertion is subject to no order or in other words randomly carried out.

More specifically illustrates how the insertion of the document may be carried out in on half of the display area namely on the side where the cursor was initially pointing at document .. This side is determined in reference to the center of the display area .

As a result of the insertion of the document the cursor is now pointing towards the document .. This is because the document when inserted on the axis pushed to the left as indicated by the arrow the documents located on the left side of the space occupied by the document . The movement to the left occurred as a result of the insertion of the document on the axis .

The vertical line indicates the location of the display area aimed by the viewer based on the position of the cursor . The insertion of the document on the axis is carried out so that the documents move in the opposite direction from the vertical line in other words in the opposite direction from where the aimed document is located. The arrow indicates that the documents move towards the right side of the display area as the aimed document is located on the left side of the display area .

In the vertical line is vertical because it is perpendicular to the axis . If the axis were to be vertical the line would be embodied as a horizontal axis defined by the position of the cursor .

Similar to illustrates another embodiment of the present invention in which the movement of documents on the axis as a result of the insertion of the document is based on the location of the aimed document . The document is the document targeted or aimed by the viewer. The insertion of the document is carried on the basis of the region of the display area towards which the viewer is looking. In this Figure this region is marked by eye view indicator .

The actual position and aim of the viewer s eyes in relation to the display area can be detected for example via a web camera connected to the display area . The web camera could be used in order to track the viewer s eye movements and or hand gestures. Even if the pointing device in embodied as the cursor is located on the right side of the display area the movement of documents on the axis is carried out as the arrow indicates it towards the left side of the display area away from the aimed document . This is so that the viewer may not be affected by the insertion of the document as the viewer s attention is focused on the utmost left side of the display area .

The display area is equally divided into two sub regions the idle region and the active region . The active region is the space of the display area towards which the viewer is aiming in order to reach a certain aimed document .. It is therefore the region of the display area in which most of the movement of the pointing device and or of the aim of the viewer s eyes is are taking place. Similarly the idle region is the space of the display area towards which the viewer does not aim via its pointing device and or glance.

Once these two regions are identified and marked through the usage of the vertical axis not shown to the user the insertion of documents takes place within the idle region and outside the display area where the addition of an extra document would not cause the displacement of any documents within the active region .

The non insertion arrow indicates that the insertion of document within the active region does not occur. That is because the viewer by moving the pointing device embodied in this Figure by the cursor would cause the system to pause and assess the direction of the movement of the cursor . Once it would stop at a specific aimed document . the system would identify the region of the display area upon which the trajectory of the movement of the cursor was traced. This region is the active region of the display area . therefore embodies another solution to the unintended and or undesirable consequences of the insertion of a document on an axis within the display area .

The actual presentation of the display area notifications feature may vary. The wording and content of the notifications may differ as well. One example would be that it could provide the following information to the viewer three documents have been added to the axis one of the documents is to be inserted within the display area one document from the display area has been removed. These notifications may also indicate the identity of the user s who added and or removed documents . Moreover these notifications may offer the time when these documents may be added and or removed from the axis in light of the preferences and selection of the viewer. Documents outside of the display area may be added or removed at in real and or at a later time in dependence of the viewer s preferences and choices.

The user may also have the choice to decide when the addition and or removal of the document may occur. The display area notification feature may offer the addition and or removal of the documents to be carried out automatically on a specific and or periodical time. It may also offer to add and or remove the documents when the user removes and reopens the axis .

Similar to embodies another solution to the unintended and or undesirable consequences of the insertion of a document within the display area on the viewer of the display area . The solution consists in offering the viewer the option to pause for a certain time the removal and or addition of any documents on an axis of documents and allow the viewer to activate the actual update of the axis at a time determined by the viewer when any modifications to the axis within and outside of the display area are deemed to have less or no impact on the viewer.

In this permission is expressed by the viewer s activation of the pause activate feature . The activation may be visually presented by a change of color for example from the paused state. The viewer may later pause any further addition and or removal of documents on the axis by pausing the pause activate feature . The pausing may be visually presented for example by a change of color from the one depicting activated state of the pause activate feature .

In document is being inserted between two documents revealed within the display area . These two documents are document and .. Moreover document is being inserted in the time unit t and before the document .. In the case illustrated in the location where the document is inserted is identified based on the fact that the time and or date the document was produced was prior to the time and or date when the document . was created. Given that the time units t t t t and t present documents in a chronological order progressively and consistently moving from left to right the documents inserted within the axis within and outside the display area would follow this chronological order as well. illustrates the displacement of the document . towards the right side of the axis from within towards the outside of the display area .

Despite the insertion of an additional document within the time unit t the time unit t itself does not change in length. This is because the rest of the documents within the time unit t reduced in size to accommodate the addition of the document .

In the document is being inserted at the utmost left side of the time unit t. The insertion as the arrow indicates it leads to the displacement of the rest of the documents to the left of the time unit t. illustrates how the documents initially present within the time unit t reduce in size so that despite the addition of a new document the respective time unit t is subject to no modification in terms of its length and width.

In our preferred embodiment no two axes can be displayed on the same vertical line. Stated differently any two axes presented in a group of axes will never be vertically placed in a tangential fashion. The end of an axis may not lie next to the beginning or start of another axis . Given that it is often the case that there might be non occupied by any document space between two axes . In the case of the this space is caused by the fact that there are no documents with the attributes E and F that would be fitted for the time units t and t respectively.

Empty space non occupied by documents within an axis is different from the empty space between two axes . Axes B C D G and F for example all have empty spaces where documents may be potentially added in the future. Whereas there might a possibility for an addition of a or several other document s to be added on axis B C and D for example within the space presently non occupied by documents there is no possibility for this to materialize in case of the empty space highlighted as grey shaded area next to the left and respective right the end of the axes presented in the .

The displacement of the document . from within towards outside of the display area may cause undesirable consequences on the viewer of the display area especially when the document . is the document the viewer aims to reach. Moreover the insertion of the document on the axis A causes the time unit t to become larger than it was initially so that it would accommodate the new document insertion.

In as a result of the insertion of the document document . moved to the left of the axis A outside of the display area . Furthermore one less document is displayed on the axis C. Whereas there were three documents initially displayed on the axis C within the display area see due to the enlargement of the time unit t one of the documents from the axis C has moved leftwards from within towards outside of the display area . This change of document display within the display area may cause undesirable consequences on the viewer.

In the insertion of the document takes place on the axis B which portion that is displayed on the display area reveals relatively more empty space i.e. more room for documents to be added into than the axes A and C do. In light of this circumstance the insertion of the document within the display area leads not to the enlargement of the time unit t to which the newly inserted document belongs. As a result of the insertion the respective document moves leftwards on the axis B and outside of the display area .

As illustrated in the insertion of a document could take advantage of the empty space on the axis B to show itself in the display area before heading towards document sized empty space. This movement may be animated. This may happen after a certain amount of time or after the user takes action to move the display area to display other regions of the same axes or other ones.

A series of documents which have been added simultaneously or at a certain time distance from each other an axis are partially displayed on the display area . They are located within the receiving space .

The addition of the documents may cause the sudden enlargement of the time unit t to which they belong and which is partially presented on the display area . In the case of the the solution given in order to avoid the enlargement of the respective time unit t is to incorporate the respective documents within a receiving space which has a scrolling device confined on both of its sides by scrolling arrows . In this manner the viewer of the display area may explore the added documents within the scrolling device a later time without changing the size of the time unit t and of the layout of documents within the display area .

A series of documents are being added simultaneously or at a certain time distance from each other on axis D which is partially displayed on the display area . The addition of the documents may cause the sudden enlargement of the time unit t partially presented on the display area . In the case of the the solution given in order to avoid the enlargement of the respective time unit t is to incorporate the respective documents within an elements management device . In this elements management device has scrolling properties .

The elements management device as illustrates it may indicate the maximum number of documents to be displayed on the display area from all the documents that were added to the axis D. The display potential indicates that the elements management device may display up to 5 of such documents . Moreover the elements management device may have an on and off button which the viewer may use to indicate if the newly added documents may be displayed or not on the axis D within the display area . This embodiment as well illustrates another potential solution to the undesirable consequences that might arise as a result of the insertion of documents within the display area on the viewer of the display area .

In a series of documents are being added simultaneously at a certain time distance from each other on axis D. Axis D is partially shown on the display area . In order to avoid the sudden enlargement of the time unit t partially presented on the display area as a result of the abrupt and rapid addition of documents on the axis D the documents that were inserted and removed on the axis D are compressed into a group of documents .

The group of documents may indicate the number of documents added to the axis D. In the case of the this number is 9 as indicated by the counting element . The group of documents intends to avoid the enlargement of the time unit t as a result of the addition of the extra documents on the axis D change that may cause unwanted consequences on the viewer of the display area .

The viewer of the display area may explore the added documents within the group of documents a later time with or without changing the size of the time unit t and of the layout of the documents within the display area .

Similar to presents another flowchart illustrating in an exemplary manner the method upon which one or more aspects of the present invention are based namely the addition of an information element on a group of axes of information elements . The method consists of the following steps displaying information elements sharing a first commonality on an axis of information elements displaying information elements sharing a second commonality on a second axis of information elements grouping the first and the second axis of information elements adding at least an additional information element to be presented on one of the axes of information elements and moving information elements on the axis and adjusting a time unit of the group of axes to display the additional information element on the axis .

Steps 1 which starts at block consists of searching for events in respect to the adding and or removal of documents taking place on the axis . If such events do occur the system shows the display area notification feature listing the information pertaining to the newly added and or removed documents .

The second step which starts at block consists of identifying if there are any insertions of documents taking place on the axis . If the cursor is moving the system identifies the active region towards which the cursor is moving. Then if the inserted document is in the active region the insertion does not take place. However if the respective document is at the left of the active region the system pushes the documents before the inserted document to the left. After pushing the documents to the left or to the right of the axis the document is inserted on the axis .

If the cursor is not moving if the inserted document is at the left of the cursor the system pushes the documents before the inserted document to the left of the axis . If the inserted document is at the right of the cursor the system pushes the documents after the inserted document to the right of the axis . The document is consequently inserted on the axis .

Once the document is inserted on the axis the system identifies if the inserted documents was placed on a linear or non linear axis . If it is a linear axis the system verifies if there is sufficient space to accommodate the insertion of the document . If this is not the case the system compacts the inserted documents within a time unit .

If the inserted document was not placed on a linear axis and was placed within a group of axes the system checks if the time unit has become larger as a result of the insertion of the document . If this were the case the system checks if there are documents visible on the other axes of the group . If all these conditions hold true the system adds temporary additional space outside the display area in order to keep the documents within the display area .

Step 3 identifies if there are any documents to be removed from an axis . If this were to be the case the system identifies if the respective documents are shown on the display area . If the document is displayed on the display the system adds a cross sign to identify the removed document from the rest of the documents displayed on the display area . The document is removed from the number of documents displayed on the display area the user may have selected. The system also disables the selection features on the document .

If the document is not within the display area it is removed from the axis . If the removed document is at the left of the display area the system pushes the documents before the removed document to the right. If this is not the case the system pushes the documents before the removed document to the left.

The description and the drawings that are presented above are meant to be illustrative of the present invention. They are not meant to be limiting of the scope of the present invention. Modifications to the embodiments described may be made without departing from the present invention the scope of which is defined by the following claims 

