---

title: Glycosylated valproic acid analogs and uses thereof
abstract: Glycosylated valproic acid and its analogs are provided. In some embodiments, the glycosylated valproic acid and its analogs have improved solubility and are ideal for drug delivery to treat a variety of diseases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08921533&OS=08921533&RS=08921533
owner: Chromatin Technologies
number: 08921533
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120725
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 511 219 filed on Jul. 25 2011 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

All patents patent applications and publications cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. The disclosures of these publications in their entireties are hereby incorporated by reference into this application in order to more fully describe the state of the art as known to those skilled therein as of the date of the invention described and claimed herein.

Valproic acid is a carboxylic acid that has been used to treat epilepsy and other CNS disorders such as manic episodes in bipolar disorder and in migraine headaches. More recent research has shown it to be a strong histone deacetylase HDAC Class 1 epigenetic inhibitor. HDACs are chromatin remodeling factors that normally help condense DNA into its compact form. When chromatin is in its compacted form transcription or other factors cannot access DNA and viruses that infect cells such as HIV stay bound and hidden eluding the attack of anti viral therapy. HDAC inhibitors including valproic acid are thought to transform the chromatin in the latently infected cell from its condensed or transcriptional silent form to its less condensed or transcriptional active form. HDAC inhibitors also have implications in stem cell proliferation and reprogramming of adult stem cells.

In formulae I and II of U.S. Pat. No. 5 162 573 R preferably represents 2 methoxyethyl 2 isopropoxyethyl 2 butoxyethyl 1 methyl 2 methoxyethyl acetoxymethyl 2 acetoxyethyl pivaloyloxymethyl 1 and 2 pivaloyloxyethyl 2 propyl pentanoyloxymethyl 2 propyl pentenoyloxymethyl 2 2 propylpentanoyloxy ethyl 2 2 propyl pentenoyloxy ethyl 1 ethoxycarbonyloxyethyl 2 benzoyloxyethyl 2 3 4 5 trimethoxylbenzoyloxy ethyl 2 cinnamoyloxyethyl 2 phthalidyl 2 N succinimido ethyl 5 methyl 2 oxo 1 3 dioxolene 4 yl methyl 2 pyridylmethyl.

Despite the potential utility of valproic acid and it analogs as an HDAC inhibitor low solubility of the carboxylic acid compounds limit application of these compounds. Thus there is still a need for the development of new valproic acid analogs that will allow the production of better formulations that can easily be administered to the patient.

In one aspect of the invention new valproic acid analogs are provided. In some embodiments glycosylated valproic acid and its analogs are provided that have improved solubility and membrane transport as the sugar moiety of the molecule is believed to enhance solubility and or transport into cells. In some embodiments the valproic acid analogs allow the production of better formulations and or easier administration.

In some embodiments the compound comprises a sugar that is in a furanose and or a pyranose form. In some embodiments the sugar of the compound comprises glucose mannose galactose 2 NAc glucose or 2 deoxyglucose. In some embodiments the sugar can be monosaccharide disaccharide or trisaccharide analogs. In some embodiments the compound exhibits glycosylation at the C 1 and or C 6 positions. In some embodiments the compound comprises an alpha and beta anomer for one or more C 1 analogs.

In another aspect there is a method of treating ameliorating or preventing viral infections comprising administering to an animal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of the glycosylated valproic acid or its analogs. In some embodiments the glycosylated valproic acid or analogs comprise a compound of formulae I VI .

In some embodiments the glycosylated valproic acid or its analogs can be used to treat a viral infection e.g. such as HIV or cancer. Some types of cancers that the glycosylated valproic acid or its analogs can treat include colon cancer brain cancer glioma multiple myeloma head and neck cancer hepatocellular cancer melanoma ovarian cancer cervical cancer renal cancer and non small cell lung cancer. In some embodiments the cancer is acute and chronic lymphocytic leukemia acute granulocytic leukemia adrenal cortex carcinoma bladder carcinoma breast carcinoma cervical carcinoma cervical hyperplasia choriocarcinoma chronic granulocytic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia colon carcinoma endometrial carcinoma esophageal carcinoma essential thrombocytosis genitourinary carcinoma hairy cell leukemia head and neck carcinoma Hodgkin s disease Kaposi s sarcoma lung carcinoma lymphoma malignant carcinoid carcinoma malignant hypercalcemia malignant melanoma malignant pancreatic insulinoma medullary thyroid carcinoma melanoma multiple myeloma mycosis fungoides myeloid and lymphocytic leukemia neuroblastoma non Hodgkin s lymphoma osteogenic sarcoma ovarian carcinoma pancreatic carcinoma polycythemia vera primary brain carcinoma primary macroglobulinemia prostatic carcinoma renal cell carcinoma rhabdomyosarcoma skin cancer small cell lung carcinoma soft tissue sarcoma squamous cell carcinoma stomach carcinoma testicular carcinoma thyroid carcinoma or Wilms tumor of the kidney.

In some embodiments the glycosylated valproic acid and its analogs provided have a sugar attached thereto. In some embodiments the compounds reduce and or prevent drug resistance that may develop over time.

In some embodiments the glycosylated valproic acid and its analogs provided can be used in both reprogramming of adult cells to the totipotent state and further on to other adult cells and in stem cell proliferation in the rate of growth of those cells. Therefore the glycosylated valproic acid and its analogs can be used as a tool in organ regeneration and improving the rate of cell proliferation.

In some embodiments the glycosylated valproic acid and its analogs provided can be used in combination with gene therapy.

Additional features and advantages of various aspects and embodiments will be set forth in part in the description that follows and in part will be apparent from the description or may be learned by practice of various aspects and embodiments. The objectives and other advantages of various aspects and embodiments will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the description and appended claims.

These and other embodiments of the invention are further described in the following sections of the application including the Detailed Description Examples and Claims. Still other objects and advantages of the invention will become apparent by those of skill in the art from the disclosure herein which are simply illustrative and not restrictive. Thus other embodiments will be recognized by the ordinarily skilled artisan without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

For the purposes of this specification and appended claims unless otherwise indicated all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients percentages or proportions of materials reaction conditions and other numerical values used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about. Accordingly unless indicated to the contrary the numerical parameters set forth in the following specification and attached claims are approximations that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of reported significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques.

Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the invention are approximations the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value however inherently contains certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements. Moreover all ranges disclosed herein are to be understood to encompass any and all subranges subsumed therein. For example a range of 1 to 10 includes any and all subranges between and including the minimum value of 1 and the maximum value of 10 that is any and all subranges having a minimum value of equal to or greater than 1 and a maximum value of equal to or less than 10 e.g. 5.5 to 10.

It is noted that as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless expressly and unequivocally limited to one referent. Thus for example reference to an analog includes one two three or more analogs.

The present invention relates to compounds processes of preparing them and methods of using the compounds.

In some embodiments the compound comprises a saccharide that is a furanose or a pyranose. In some embodiments the saccharide is a furanose. In some embodiments the saccharide is a pyranose.

In some embodiments the compound comprises a saccharide that comprises glucose mannose galactose 2 NAc glucose or 2 deoxyglucose. In some embodiments the saccharide comprises glucose mannose or galactose. In some embodiments the saccharide comprises 2 NAc glucose or 2 deoxyglucose. In some embodiments the saccharide comprises glucose. In some embodiments the saccharide comprises mannose. In some embodiments the saccharide comprises galactose. In some embodiments the saccharide comprises 2 NAc glucose. In some embodiments the saccharide comprises 2 deoxyglucose.

In some embodiments the saccharide is a monosaccharide disaccharide trisaccharide or analog thereof. In some embodiments the saccharide is a monosaccharide disaccharide or analog thereof. In some embodiments the saccharide is a monosaccharide or analog thereof. In some embodiments the saccharide is a monosaccharide. In some embodiments the saccharide is a disaccharide or analog thereof. In some embodiments the saccharide is a disaccharide. In some embodiments the disaccharide is lactose. In some embodiments the disaccharide is maltose. In some embodiments the saccharide is a trisaccharide or analog thereof. In some embodiments the saccharide is a trisaccharide.

In some embodiments the compound exhibits glycosylation at C 1 and or C 6 positions of the saccharide. In some embodiments the compound exhibits glycosylation at C 1 position of the saccharide. In some embodiments the compound exhibits glycosylation at C 6 position of the saccharide.

In some embodiments the compound comprises an alpha and beta anomer at the C 1 position of the saccharide. In some embodiments the compound comprises an alpha anomer at the C 1 position of the saccharide. In some embodiments the compound comprises a beta anomer at the C 1 position of the saccharide.

In some embodiments Ris a furanose or a pyranose. In some embodiments the Ris a furanose. In some embodiments Ris a pyranose.

In some embodiments Ris a glucose mannose galactose 2 NAc glucose or 2 deoxyglucose. In some embodiments Ris glucose mannose or galactose. In some embodiments Ris 2 NAc glucose or 2 deoxyglucose. In some embodiments Ris glucose. In some embodiments Ris mannose. In some embodiments Ris galactose. In some embodiments Ris 2 NAc glucose. In some embodiments Ris 2 deoxyglucose.

In some embodiments Ris comprises a ribose or 2 deoxyribose. In some embodiments Ris ribose or 2 deoxyribose. In some embodiments Ris ribose. In some embodiments Ris 2 deoxyribose.

In some embodiments Ris Calkyl or alkene having 1 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen atoms amino hydroxy carboxylic acid group ester amide and cyano wherein one or more of the hydroxy carboxylic acid amine or amide group is optionally glycosylated with a saccharide group.

In some embodiments Ris Calkyl or alkene having 1 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen atoms amino hydroxy carboxylic acid group ester amide and cyano.

In some embodiments Ris Calkyl or alkene having 1 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen atoms amino hydroxy carboxylic acid group ester and amide.

In some embodiments Ris Calkyl or alkene having 1 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen atoms amino hydroxy carboxylic acid group ester and amide.

In some embodiments Ris Calkyl or alkene having 1 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen atoms amino hydroxy ester and amide.

In some embodiments Ris Calkyl or alkene having 1 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen atoms or hydroxy.

In some embodiments Ris Calkyl or alkene having 1 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen atoms or hydroxy.

In some embodiments Ris Calkyl or alkene. In some embodiments Ris Calkyl or alkene. In some embodiments Ris Calkyl or alkene. In some embodiments Ris Calkyl or alkene. In some embodiments Ris Calkyl. In some embodiments Ris methyl ethyl or propyl. In some embodiments Ris ethyl or propyl. In some embodiments Ris propyl.

In some embodiments Ris H halo or loweralkyl. In some embodiments Ris H or loweralkyl. In some embodiments Ris H or Calkyl. In some embodiments Ris H or methyl. In some embodiments Ris H.

In some embodiments each Rand Ris independently amine cyano hydroxyl or carboxylic acid each of which may be glycosylated. In some embodiments each Rand Ris independently amine cyano hydroxyl or carboxylic acid. In some embodiments each Rand Ris independently amine hydroxyl or carboxylic acid. In some embodiments each Rand Ris independently amine or hydroxyl. In some embodiments each Rand Ris amine. In some embodiments each Rand Ris hydroxyl.

In some embodiments Ris oxo or hydroxyl. In some embodiments Ris oxo. In some embodiments Ris hydroxyl.

In some embodiments each of Rand Ris independently a linear or branched saturated or partially unsaturated aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris independently a linear or branched saturated or partially unsaturated aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris independently a linear or branched saturated aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris independently a linear or branched saturated aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris independently a linear or branched saturated aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris independently a linear saturated aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris independently ethyl propyl butyl or pentyl. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris independently ethyl propyl or butyl. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris independently propyl or butyl. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris independently propyl. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris independently butyl.

In some embodiments each of Rand Ris a linear or branched aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain which is optionally substituted with a C Caliphatic or aromatic cyclohydrocarbon or heterocyclic group or having 1 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen atoms amino hydroxy carboxylic acid group ester amide and cyano.

In some embodiments each of Rand Ris a linear or branched aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain having 1 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen atoms amino hydroxy carboxylic acid group ester amide and cyano.

In some embodiments each of Rand Ris a linear or branched aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain which is substituted with a C Caliphatic or aromatic cyclohydrocarbon or heterocyclic group.

In some embodiments each of Rand Ris a linear or branched aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain which is optionally substituted with a C Caliphatic or aromatic cyclohydrocarbon or heterocyclic group or having 1 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen atoms amino hydroxy carboxylic acid group ester amide and cyano.

In some embodiments each of Rand Ris a linear or branched aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain which is substituted with a C Caliphatic or aromatic cyclohydrocarbon or heterocyclic group.

In some embodiments each of Rand Ris a linear or branched aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain having 1 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen atoms amino hydroxy carboxylic acid group ester amide and cyano.

In some embodiments each of Rand Ris a linear or branched aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris a linear or branched aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris a linear aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris ethyl propyl butyl pentyl or hexyl. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris ethyl propyl or butyl. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris ethyl or propyl. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris ethyl. In some embodiments each of Rand Ris propyl.

In some embodiments Ris C CH CH CH or CH CH. In some embodiments Ris CH CHor CH CH. In some embodiments Ris C CH. In some embodiments Ris CH CH. In some embodiments Ris CH CH.

In some embodiments Ris independently a saturated unsaturated with at least one double or triple bond branched or unbranched Calkyl group optionally substituted with an aliphatic or aromatic Ccyclohydrocarbon or heterocyclic group. In some embodiments Ris independently a saturated unsaturated with at least one double or triple bond branched or unbranched Calkyl group optionally substituted with an aliphatic or aromatic Ccyclohydrocarbon or heterocyclic group.

In some embodiments Y is a bond or CH aryl O wherein the aryl group is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkoxy C Cthioalkyl N C Calkyl C Calkyl NH C Calkyl NH NO and CN.

In some embodiments Y is a bond or CH phenyl O wherein the phenyl group is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkoxy C Cthioalkyl N C Calkyl C Calkyl NH C Calkyl NH NO and CN.

In some embodiments each of m and n is independently an integer having a value of 0 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. In some embodiments each of m and n is independently an integer having a value of 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. In some embodiments each of m and n is independently an integer having a value of 2 3 4 5 or 6. In some embodiments each of m and n is independently an integer having a value of 0 1 2 3 or 4. In some embodiments each of m and n is independently an integer having a value of 1 2 3 or 4. In some embodiments each of m and n is independently an integer having a value of 0 1 2 or 3. In some embodiments each of m and n is independently an integer having a value of 2 3 or 4. In some embodiments each of m and n is independently an integer having a value of 1 2 or 3. In some embodiments each of m and n is independently an integer having a value of 2 or 3. In some embodiments each of m and n is an integer having a value of 1 2 or 3. In some embodiments each of m and n is an integer having a value of 2 or 3. In some embodiments each of m and n is an integer having a value of 2. In some embodiments each of m and n is an integer having a value of 3.

In some embodiments o is 1 2 or 3. In some embodiments o is 1. In some embodiments o is 2. In some embodiments o is 3.

In some embodiments Ris 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydroglucose glucoside mannoside galactoside alloside guloside idoside taloside rhamnoside maltoside 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydromaltoside 2 3 desoxymaltoside lactoside 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydro lactoside 2 3 desoxylactoside glucouronate glucosamine galactosamine mannosamine N acetylglucosamine N acetylgalactosamine or N acetylmannosamine 

Ris Calkyl or alkene having 1 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen atoms amino hydroxy carboxylic acid group ester and amide 

each of Rand Ris a linear or branched aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain having 1 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen atoms amino hydroxy carboxylic acid group ester and amide.

Ris independently a saturated unsaturated with at least one double or triple bond branched or unbranched Calkyl group optionally substituted with an aliphatic or aromatic Ccyclohydrocarbon or heterocyclic group 

Y is a bond or CH aryl O wherein the aryl group is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkoxy C Cthioalkyl N C Calkyl C Calkyl NH C Calkyl NH NO and CN 

In some embodiments Ris 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydroglucose glucoside mannoside galactoside alloside guloside idoside taloside rhamnoside maltoside 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydromaltoside 2 3 desoxymaltoside lactoside 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydro lactoside 2 3 desoxylactoside glucouronate glucosamine galactosamine mannosamine N acetylglucosamine N acetylgalactosamine or N acetylmannosamine 

Ris Calkyl or alkene having 1 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen atoms amino or hydroxyl 

each of Rand Ris a linear or branched aliphatic C Chydrocarbon chain having 1 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of halogen atoms amino and hydroxyl 

Ris independently a saturated unsaturated with at least one double or triple bond branched or unbranched Calkyl group optionally substituted with an aliphatic or aromatic Ccyclohydrocarbon or heterocyclic group and

Y is a bond or CH phenyl O wherein the phenyl group is optionally substituted with one or more substituents independently selected from C Calkyl C Chaloalkyl C Calkoxy C Chaloalkoxy C Cthioalkyl N C Calkyl C Calkyl NH C Calkyl NH NO and CN.

In some embodiments Ris glucoside mannoside galactoside alloside guloside idoside taloside rhamnoside maltoside lactoside glucouronate glucosamine galactosamine or mannosamine 

Ris independently a saturated unsaturated with at least one double or triple bond branched or unbranched Calkyl group optionally substituted with an aliphatic or aromatic Ccyclohydrocarbon or heterocyclic group and

In some embodiments the compound is a compound of formula I wherein Ris a saccharide Ris Calkyl or alkene having one carbon substituted by 1 3 of halogen atoms amino hydroxy carboxylic acid group ester amide or cyano wherein one or more of the hydroxy carboxylic acid or amide group is optionally glycosylated with a saccharide group Ris H halo or loweralkyl Y is a bond 

In some embodiments of formula I Ris a monosaccharide disaccharide or trisaccharide. In some embodiments of formula I Ris a furanose or a pyranose.

In some embodiments of formula I Ris 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydroglucose glucoside mannoside galactoside alloside guloside idoside taloside rhamnoside maltoside 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydromaltoside 2 3 desoxymaltoside lactoside 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydro lactoside 2 3 desoxylactoside glucouronate glucosamine galactosamine mannosamine N acetylglucosamine N acetylgalactosamine or N acetylmannosamine Ris Calkyl or alkene Ris H or loweralkyl and n is an integer from 1 4.

In some embodiments of formula I Ris glucose mannose galactose 2 NAc glucose or 2 deoxyglucose Ris Calkyl Ris H Y is

In some embodiments of formula I Ris glucose mannose galactose 2 NAc glucose or 2 deoxyglucose Ris Calkyl Ris H Y is a bond and n is 2.

According to another aspect of the invention a therapeutically effective amount of a glycosylated valproic acid or analog of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is provided in the form of a pharmaceutical composition having at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Compounds having formula I II III IV V or VI may be formulated in a single formulation with another active agent s or formulated independently.

According to one aspect of the invention methods are provided wherein a therapeutically effective amount of a glycosylated valproic acid or analog of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered to an animal in need thereof.

In some embodiments the glycosylated valproic acid or analogs comprise a compound of formulas I VI . In some embodiments the glycosylated valproic acid or analogs comprise a compound of formula I . In some embodiments the glycosylated valproic acid or analogs comprise a compound of formula II . In some embodiments the glycosylated valproic acid or analogs comprise a compound of formula III . In some embodiments the glycosylated valproic acid or analogs comprise a compound of formula IV . In some embodiments the glycosylated valproic acid or analogs comprise a compound of formula V . In some embodiments the glycosylated valproic acid or analogs comprise a compound of formula VI .

In certain embodiments the saccharide is exemplified by but not limited to 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydroglucose glucoside mannoside galactoside alloside guloside idoside taloside rhamnoside maltoside 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydromaltoside 2 3 desoxymaltoside lactoside 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydro lactoside 2 3 desoxylactoside glucouronate glucosamine galactosamine mannosamine N acetylglucosamine N acetylgalactosamine and N acetylmannosamine. Thus in certain embodiments Ris 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydroglucose glucoside mannoside galactoside alloside guloside idoside taloside rhamnoside maltoside 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydromaltoside 2 3 desoxymaltoside lactoside 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydro lactoside 2 3 desoxylactoside glucouronate glucosamine galactosamine mannosamine N acetylglucosamine N acetylgalactosamine or N acetylmannosamine

In certain embodiments Ris 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydroglucose glucoside mannoside galactoside alloside guloside idoside taloside rhamnoside maltoside 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydromaltoside 2 3 desoxymaltoside lactoside 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydro lactoside 2 3 desoxylactoside or glucouronate.

In certain embodiments Ris glucoside mannoside galactoside alloside guloside idoside taloside rhamnoside maltoside lactoside or glucouronate. In certain embodiments Ris glucoside mannoside galactoside alloside rhamnoside maltoside lactoside or glucouronate. In certain embodiments Ris glucoside mannoside galactoside alloside rhamnoside maltoside lactoside. In certain embodiments Ris glucoside mannoside galactoside or maltoside. In certain embodiments Ris glucoside mannoside or galactoside. In certain embodiments Ris glucoside or mannoside. In certain embodiments Ris glucoside. In certain embodiments Ris mannoside. In certain embodiments Ris galactoside.

In some embodiments the present invention contemplates the use of a saccharide or carbohydrate unit or units having five membered rings known as furanoses. In some embodiments the present invention contemplates the use of carbohydrate unit or units having six membered rings known as pyranoses. Combinations of furanoses and pyranoses are also contemplated.

In some embodiments the saccharide or carbohydrate containing acetate protecting group s are exemplified by but not limited to 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydroglucose diacetate glucoside tetraacetate mannoside tetraacetate galactoside tetraacetate alloside tetraacetate guloside tetraacetate idoside tetraacetate taloside tetraacetate rhamnoside triacetate maltoside heptaacetate 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydromaltoside pentaacetate 2 3 desoxymaltoside pentaacetate lactoside tetraacetate 2 3 desoxy 2 3 dehydrolactoside pentaacetate 2 3 desoxylactoside pentaacetate glucouronate triacetate N acetylglucosamine triacetate N acetylgalactosamine tiacetate and N acetylmannosamine triacetate. In some embodiments the present invention contemplates the use of carbohydrate unit or units having five membered rings known as furanoses. In some embodiments the present invention contemplates the use of carbohydrate unit or units having six membered rings known as pyranoses. Combinations of furanoses and pyranoses are also contemplated.

In some embodiments the saccharide or carbohydrate attached to the drug contain protecting groups exemplified by but not limited to an acetyl group including acetyl Ac chloroacetyl ClAc propionyl benzoyl Bz and pivaloyl Piv . Non acyl protecting groups include but are not limited to benzyl Bn methoxyethoxymethyl ether MEM methoxymethyl ether MOM p methoxybenzyl ether PMB methylthiomethyl ether tetrahydropyran THP silyl ethers including but not limited to trimethylsilyl TMS tert butyldimethylsilyl TBDMS and triisopropylsilyl TIPS ethers methyl ethers and ethoxyethyl ethers EE . In some embodiments the saccharide or carbohydrate attached contains a protecting group exemplified by but not limited to amine protecting groups such as a carbobenzyloxy Cbz group p methoxybenzyl carbonyl Moz or MeOZ group tert butyloxycarbonyl BOC group 9 fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl FMOC group benzyl Bn group p methoxybenzyl PMB dimethoxybenzyl DMPM p methoxyphenyl PMP group tosyl Ts group and other sulfonamide Nosyl Nps groups. In some embodiments the saccharide or carbohydrate attached contains a protecting group exemplified by but not limited to carbonyl protecting groups such as acetals ketals acylals and dithianes. Exemplary carboxylic acid protecting groups include without limitation alkyl esters aryl esters and silyl esters.

In some embodiments glycosylated valproic acids or analogs of the present invention reduce the incidence of resistance from developing. Without being bound by theory by attaching a sugar to the compound e.g. valproic acid or analog the sugar not only allows greater uptake of the compound into the cell but also prevents it from being ejected from the cell and thus improves efficacy. For example putting a sugar on the compound reduces the p glycoprotein pumping effect to cause the compound to be ejected. Thus without being bound by theory it is believed that putting a sugar on valproic acid improves the compounds efficacy over time. In some embodiments the compound of any of formulas I VI comprises a sugar to reduce drug resistance.

In one aspect the invention provides methods of treating ameliorating or preventing viral infections comprising administering to an animal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of formulas I VI. In some embodiments the viral infection is an HIV infection.

In one aspect the invention provides methods of treating or ameliorating cancer comprising administering to an animal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of formulas I VI.

In some embodiments cancer is selected from the group consisting of colon cancer brain cancer glioma multiple myeloma head and neck cancer hepatocellular cancer melanoma ovarian cancer cervical cancer renal cancer and non small cell lung cancer. In a further embodiment the cancer is acute and chronic lymphocytic leukemia acute granulocytic leukemia adrenal cortex carcinoma bladder carcinoma breast carcinoma cervical carcinoma cervical hyperplasia choriocarcinoma chronic granulocytic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia colon carcinoma endometrial carcinoma esophageal carcinoma essential thrombocytosis genitourinary carcinoma hairy cell leukemia head and neck carcinoma Hodgkin s disease Kaposi s sarcoma lung carcinoma lymphoma malignant carcinoid carcinoma malignant hypercalcemia malignant melanoma malignant pancreatic insulinoma medullary thyroid carcinoma melanoma multiple myeloma mycosis fungoides myeloid and lymphocytic leukemia neuroblastoma non Hodgkin s lymphoma osteogenic sarcoma ovarian carcinoma pancreatic carcinoma polycythemia vera primary brain carcinoma primary macroglobulinemia prostatic carcinoma renal cell carcinoma rhabdomyosarcoma skin cancer small cell lung carcinoma soft tissue sarcoma squamous cell carcinoma stomach carcinoma testicular carcinoma thyroid carcinoma or Wilms tumor of the kidney.

In another aspect the invention provides methods of inhibiting neuroinflammation associated with traumatic brain injury comprising administering to an animal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of formulas I VI.

In another aspect the invention provides methods of inhibiting histone deacetylase I HDAC 1 and histone deacetylases II HDAC 2s comprising administering to an animal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of formulas I VI.

In another aspect the invention provides methods of treating a disease or a condition associated with degeneration of muscle tissue comprising identifying a subject suffering from a disease or condition associated with degeneration of muscle tissue nerve tissue or hematopoietic tissue and administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of formulas I VI. In some embodiments the glycosylated valproic acid or analog is administered with an HDAC inhibitor.

In another aspect the invention provides methods of treating a central nervous system CNS in a subject in need of treatment comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of formulas I VI. In some embodiments the subject has Alzheimer s disease Senile dementia Huntington s disease torsion dystonia spasmodic torticollis Gilles de la Tourette syndrome and or Parkinson s disease

In another aspect the invention provides methods of treating a cancer in a subject in need of such treatment the method comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any of formulas I VI to induce apoptosis in the cancer. In some embodiments the cancer is associated with the P53 gene. In some embodiments the compound of any of formulas I VI is used in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent to enhance sensitivity of the cancer to radiotherapy. In some embodiments the compound of any of formulas I VI is used in conjunction with SBHA as a Notch 1 activator to suppress NE tumor markers and reduce growth of cancer via apoptosis of pheochromocytoma cells. In some embodiments the compound of any of formulas I VI is used to induce apoptosis of undifferentiated cancer cells.

In another aspect the invention provides methods of treating an asthmatic condition or COPD in a subject in need of such treatment the method comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the compound of any of formulas I VI to regulate the expression of distinct subsets of inflammatory immune genes to enhance an activity of antigen induced contraction of lung membranes.

In another aspect the invention provides methods of screening an array of cDNA the method comprising contacting the cDNA with the compound of any of formulas I VI. In some embodiments the compound of any of formulas I VI can target genes regulated by valproic acid to reprogram stem cells and or undifferentiated progenitor cells.

In another aspect the invention provides methods of treating a disease or condition in a subject in need of such treatment the method comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of the compound of any of formulas I VI to treat the disease or condition associated with degeneration of muscle tissue nerve tissue or hematopoietic tissue wherein the disease or condition is muscular atrophy muscular dystrophy muscular cachexia dermatomyositis Alzheimer s disease olivopontocerebellar atrophy Parkinson s disease degeneration of nervous tissue occular atrophy alcohol induced brain damage hepatocerebral degeneration idiopathic aplastic anemia secondary aplastic anemia post ischemic tissue degeneration amyotrophic lateral sclerosis poliomyelitis polyglutamine expansion diseases bone marrow loss induced by radiation therapy or chemotherapy multiple myeloma acute lymphocytic leukemia HIV infection AIDS malaria chronic myelogenous leukemia Senile dementia Huntingtons disease Parkinsons disease epilespsy torsion dystonia Tourettes Fanconi s anemia trauma or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the compound of any of formulas I VI is administered alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents for the disease or condition. In some embodiments the compound of any of formulas I VI is an inhibitor of tyrosine and or serine threonine kinases and tyrosine kinase receptors involved in cellular signaling. In some embodiments the other therapeutic agent includes at least one of a natural product an antimetabolite an alkylating agent a plant derived product including an alkaloid a chemotherapeutic agent an anti angiogenic agent a Hsp90 inhibitor an HDAC inhibitor or a combination thereof.

In another aspect the invention provides methods of producing a totipotent tissue culture the method comprising providing a tissue culture and growing the tissue culture on a medium which contains an effective amount of a compound of any of formulas I VI produce the totipotent tissue culture.

In some embodiments the compound of any of formulas I VI can be used in i reprogramming of adult cells to a totipotent state ii reprogramming of adult cells iii increasing a rate of cell proliferation and or iv in organ regeneration.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to an unsaturated acyclic hydrocarbon radical. The term lower alkyl refers to acyclic hydrocarbon radicals containing from about 2 to about 10 carbon atoms preferably from about 2 to about 8 carbon atoms and more preferably 1 to about 6 carbon atoms. Examples of suitable alkyl radicals include methyl ethyl propyl butyl isobutyl pentyl 2 methylbutyl 3 methylbutyl hexyl heptyl and octyl and the like.

The term alkenyl as used herein refers to a straight or branched chain radical of 2 10 carbon atoms including at least one double bond between two of the carbon atoms in the chain. Typical alkenyl groups include ethenyl 1 propenyl 2 propenyl 2 methyl 1 propenyl 1 butenyl and 2 butenyl.

The term alkynyl is used herein refers to a straight or branched chain radical of 2 10 carbon atoms wherein there is at least one triple bond between two of the carbon atoms in the chain. Typical alkynyl groups include ethynyl 1 propynyl 1 methyl 2 propynyl 2 propynyl 1 butynyl and 2 butynyl.

The term carbocycle as used herein include cyclic hydrocarbons that are saturated e.g. cycloalkyl partially unsaturated e.g. cycloalkenyl or fully unsaturated e.g. aryl groups including phenyl . Useful cycloalkyl groups are for example Ccycloalkyl. Typical cycloalkyl groups include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl. Useful partially saturated carbocyclic groups include for example cycloalkenyl groups such as cyclopentenyl cycloheptenyl and cyclooctenyl.

The term aryl as employed herein by itself or as part of another group refers to monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic aromatic groups containing from 6 to 14 carbons in the ring portion. Useful aryl groups include for example Caryl preferably Caryl. Typical Caryl groups include phenyl naphthyl phenanthrenyl anthracenyl indenyl azulenyl biphenyl biphenylenyl and fluorenyl groups.

The term prodrug as used herein refers to variations or derivatives of the compounds of this invention which have groups cleavable under metabolic conditions to form the compounds of the present invention. Thus prodrugs of the present invention become the compounds of the invention when they undergo solvolysis under physiological conditions or undergo enzymatic degradation e.g. hydrolysis or oxidation e.g. hepatic hydroxylation or reduction. The prodrug itself may or may not also have HDAC inhibitory activity.

Typical enzymatically or solvolytically cleavable groups suitable for preparing the prodrugs of the present invention include esters imines carbamates acetals and ketals. For example an ester of a carboxylic acid containing compound of the present invention may be prepared by condensation with an alcohol preferably a lower alkyl alcohol more preferably a Calkyl alcohol. Similarly an ester of a hydroxy containing compound of the present invention may be prepared by condensation with a carboxylic or a dioic acid preferably an alkyl carboxylic or dioic acid more preferably a Ccarboxylic acid or a Cdioic acid or anhydride thereof. Moreover an imine of an amino containing compound of the present invention may be obtained by condensation of the amino group with a carbonyl group of an aldehyde or a ketone. Aldehydes and ketones suitable for condensation with amino containing compounds of the present invention include alkyl and aryl ketones and aldehydes more preferably alky ketones and aldehydes more preferably lower alkyl ketones and aldehydes most preferably Calkyl aldehydes and ketones. A carbamate of an amino containing compound of the present invention may be prepared by condensation of the amino group with for example benzyloxycarbonyl chloride. In addition an acetal or ketal of an alcohol containing compound of the present invention may be obtained by condensation of the hydroxy group with chloromethyl methyl ether or chloromethyl ethyl ether.

In some embodiments glycosylated valproic acid and or its analogs include its structurally and functionally related forms. In some embodiments this includes a sugar attached to either valproic acid or a compound similar to valproic acid. In some embodiments glycosylated valproic acid analogs include but are not limited to glycosylated carboxylic acid analogs.

Glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention can be provided as pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts i.e. addition salts include inorganic and organic acid addition salts such as hydrochloride hydrobromide phosphate sulphate citrate lactate tartrate maleate fumarate mandelate benzoate and oxalate and inorganic and organic base addition salts with bases such as sodium hydroxide Tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane TRIS tromethane ammonium hydroxide and tetra substituted ammonium hydroxide e.g tetramethlammonium hydroxide . Although the salts typically have similar physiological properties compared to the free base certain acid addition salts may demonstrate preferred physicochemical properties e.g. enhanced solubility improved stability. One particular pharmaceutically acceptable salt is derived from maleic acid the salt being either a hydrogen maleate or a dimaleate salt.

Salts may also be derived from inorganic bases such as aluminum calcium copper ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganic salts manganese potassium sodium zinc and the like.

According to one aspect of the invention methods for treating ameliorating or preventing viral infections wherein a therapeutically effective amount of a glycosylated valproic acid or analog of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered to an animal in need thereof. In certain embodiments of the invention the viral infection is latent HIV infection.

According to some embodiments of the invention the glycosylated valproic acid or its analog can be combined with an integrase inhibitors e.g. isentress raltegravir elvitegravir dolutegravir or the like . Without being bound by theory the use of valproic acid and an integrase inhibitor to reduce latent HIV infections may occur by opening up the chromatin package to the various HIV cocktails. It is intended to use a glycosylated form of valproic acid to improve the treatment mode of reducing latent HIV.

In some embodiments glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention are potent inhibitors of Class I histone deacetylases Class I HDACs including histone deacetylase 1 HDAC 1 histone deacetylase 2 HDAC 2 histone deacetylase 3 HDAC 3 and or histone deacetylase 8 HDAC 8 . In particular embodiments glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention are potent inhibitors of histone deacetylase 1 HDAC 1 . In other embodiments glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention are potent inhibitors of Class II histone deacetylases Class II HDACs including histone deacetylase 4 HDAC 4 histone deacetylase 5 HDAC 5 histone deacetylase 6 HDAC 6 histone deacetylase 7 HDAC 7 and or histone deacetylase 9 HDAC 9 .

It has been reported that HDAC inhibitors activate the p53 molecule through acetylation of 320 and 373 lysine residues upregulate PIG3 and NOXA and induce apoptosis in cancer cells expressing wild and pseudo wild type p53 genes Terui T et al. 2003 63 8948 54 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Thus one aspect of the present invention is the use of glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to induce apoptosis in cancer cells.

It has been reported see for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 672 746 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety that the structure activity relationships of teratogenic valproate related compounds suggest a strict structural requirement for high teratogenic potency. Molecules that are highly teratogenic were reported to require an hydrogen atom a free carboxyl function and branching on carbon atom 2 with two chains containing three carbons each for maximum teratogenic activity. Substances that do not conform with these strict structural requirements are of very low or negligible teratogenic activity but still often exhibit good anticonvulsant activity in several experimental models. Thus some embodiments of the present invention are valproic acid analogs having a substituent at carbon.

It has been reported that valproic acid induces apoptosis modulates differentiation gene expression of thyroid tumors and enhances the sensitivity of anaplastic cancer cell lines to doxorubicin Kim et al 2009 34 5 1353 62 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Thus some embodiments of the present invention include use of a glycosylated valproic acid or analog of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to treat thyroid cancers.

It has been reported that HDAC inhibitors can enhance both the in vitro and in vivo radiosensitivity of human tumor cell lines generated from a spectrum of solid tumors Camphausen et al 2005 114 3 380 386 Chinnaiyan et al 2008 14 5410 each herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Additional studies have used HDAC inhibitors in clinical trials as single modalities in combination with chemotherapeutic agents and recently in combination with radiotherapy. Thus one aspect of the present invention is to use glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in combination with radiotherapy.

It has been reported that histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitor 4 dimethylamino N 5 2 mercaptoacetylamino pentyl benzamide DMA PB inhibits neuroinflamation associated with traumatic brain injury Dash et al. Valproate Administered after Traumatic Brain Injury Provides Neuroprotection and Improves Cognitive Function in Rats PLoS ONE 2010 5 6 e11383 Shein et al. 2011 17 5 6 448 456 Peterson et al. 2004 76 569 591 each herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Thus one aspect of the present invention is to use glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to treat traumatic brain injuries.

HDACs act to regulate the expression of distinct subsets of inflammatory immune genes. HDAC2 expression and activity is reduced in lung macrophages biopsy specimens and blood cells from patients with severe asthma and smoking induced asthma as well as in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease perhaps accounting for the enhanced inflammation and reduced steroid responsiveness seen in these patients. It has recently been reported that certain HDAC inhibitors inhibit antigen induced contraction of sensitised guinea pig tracheal rings as well as contraction induced by histamine 5 hydroxytryptamine and carbachol G protein coupled receptor agonists while sodium butyrate 1 mM and sodium valproate 100 microM were weak inhibitors. Bhaysar P. et al. 121 580 4 2008 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Thus one object of the present invention is to enhance the bioavailability and thus the activity of valproic acid derivatives.

Valproic acid and suberoyl bis hydroxamic acid SBHA have been demonstrated recently to be strong Notch 1 activators. Upregulation of the Notch 1 pathway has been shown to limit growth and suppress hormonal secretion in neuroendocrine NE neoplasms. HDAC inhibitor treatment caused a dose dependent decrease in ASCL1 and CgA while increasing the amount of active Notch 1 protein with a 6 day treatment dose dependent growth inhibition and cleavage of the apoptotic markers caspase 3 and poly ADP ribose phosphate was observed. Adler J. T. et al. 144 956 61 2008 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Thus one aspect of the invention is to use glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof to upregulate Notch 1 effectively suppress NE tumor markers and decrease growth via apoptosis of pheochromocytoma cells in vitro.

Certain embodiments of the present invention may be suitable to induce apoptosis of undifferentiated cancer cells. As such some embodiments of the present invention induce apoptosis in for example carcinoma cells breast cancer cells colon carcinoma cells and leukemia cells. Whether the compound of the present invention induce apoptosis in a cancer cell line may be assessed by observing morphological alterations and specific marker gene or protein expression.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to methods for treating ameliorating or preventing neoplasm and other proliferative disorders. In certain embodiments the disorder is cancer. In some embodiments the cancer is selected from the group consisting of colon cancer brain cancer glioma multiple myeloma head and neck cancer hepatocellular cancer melanoma ovarian cancer cervical cancer renal cancer and non small cell lung cancer. In a further embodiment the cancer is acute and chronic lymphocytic leukemia acute granulocytic leukemia adrenal cortex carcinoma bladder carcinoma breast carcinoma cervical carcinoma cervical hyperplasia choriocarcinoma chronic granulocytic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia acute myeloid leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia colon carcinoma endometrial carcinoma esophageal carcinoma essential thrombocytosis genitourinary carcinoma hairy cell leukemia head and neck carcinoma Hodgkin s disease Kaposi s sarcoma lung carcinoma lymphoma malignant carcinoid carcinoma malignant hypercalcemia malignant melanoma malignant pancreatic insulinoma medullary thyroid carcinoma melanoma multiple myeloma mycosis fungoides myeloid and lymphocytic leukemia neuroblastoma non Hodgkin s lymphoma osteogenic sarcoma ovarian carcinoma pancreatic carcinoma polycythemia vera primary brain carcinoma primary macroglobulinemia prostatic carcinoma renal cell carcinoma rhabdomyosarcoma skin cancer small cell lung carcinoma soft tissue sarcoma squamous cell carcinoma stomach carcinoma testicular carcinoma thyroid carcinoma and Wilms tumor.

A further aspect of the invention is the use of a glycosylated valproic acid or analog of the present invention for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a disease in which the inhibition of HDAC has a beneficial effect. In some embodiments the beneficial effect results in apoptosis of a patient s tumor cells thus causing a clinical improvement of the patient s condition. Examples of such diseases are skin cancer estrogen receptor dependent and independent breast cancer ovarian cancer prostate cancer renal cancer colon and colorectal cancer pancreatic cancer head and neck cancer small cell and non small cell lung carcinoma. Inhibition of HDAC may also be beneficial by reverting inappropriate gene expression in diseases based on aberrant recruitment of histone deacetylase activity such as thyroid resistance syndrome.

Another aspect of the invention is the use of a glycosylated valproic acid or analog of the present invention to define genes induced by the compounds in cells such as primary animal cells as well as cancer cell lines. Methods to define genes induced by glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention include established technologies for screening large arrays of cDNAs expressed sequence tags or so called unigene collections EP Patent 1 170 008 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Also the use of subtractive hybridization techniques is suitable to define genes which are induced by glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention. Identification of potential targets for HDAC inhibition facilitates the therapeutic treatment of patients with a glycosylated valproic acid or analog of the present invention. Considering the low general toxicity of valproic acid in the organism compared to other HDAC inhibitors glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention are suitable for targeting genes regulated by valproic acid.

HDAC inhibitors promote differentiation growth and regeneration of undifferentiated progenitor cells if the undifferentiated progenitor cells are contacted with an HDAC inhibitor during a stage of development such as during the myoblast stage. While protein acetylation promotes muscle transcription and differentiation HDAC inhibitors can repress muscle gene transcription and cellular differentiation in differentiated myotubes. Thus another aspect of the invention is a method of treating a disease or a condition associated with degeneration of muscle tissue comprising identifying a subject suffering from a disease or condition associated with degeneration of muscle tissue and administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of glycosylated valproic acid or analog of the present invention thereby treating the disease or condition associated with degeneration of muscle tissue. In some embodiments HDAC inhibitor is part of a method of treating a disease or condition associated with degeneration of muscle tissue nerve tissue or hematopoietic tissue. In some embodiments the conditions associated with the tissue degeneration may be those that destroy tissue reduce cellular size or number within a tissue impair the functioning of tissue or otherwise diminish a mass of tissue for example through non use such as muscular atrophy an infective agent such as viral destruction of cells a toxin such as bone marrow loss during chemotherapy or genetic mutation such as anemia . In a some embodiments the conditions associated with the tissue degeneration include muscular atrophy muscular dystrophy muscular cachexia dermatomyositis Alzheimer s disease olivopontocerebellar atrophy Parkinson s disease degeneration of nervous tissue occular atrophy alcohol induced brain damage hepatocerebral degeneration idiopathic aplastic anemia secondary aplastic anemia post ischemic tissue degeneration amyotrophic lateral sclerosis poliomyelitis bone marrow loss induced by radiation therapy or chemotherapy multiple myeloma acute lymphocytic leukemia HIV infection AIDS malaria chronic myelogenous leukemia Fanconi s anemia and or trauma

Additionally administering an HDAC inhibitor such as glycosylated valproic acid or analog of the present invention to a subject may provide a prophylactic effect leading to the inhibition or prevention of such diseases or conditions. Thus a subject at risk of suffering some muscle wasting disease such as muscular dystrophy and or some neurodegenerative disease such as Alzhiemer s disease may be administered an amount of an amount of an HDAC inhibitor such as glycosylated valproic acid or analog of the present invention effective to promote growth and differentiation of progenitor cells within that subject thus replacing dead or dying cells of muscle or nervous tissue. Thus another aspect of the invention is a method of preventing conditions associated with tissue degeneration by administering to a subject at risk of the condition an amount of glycosylated valproic acid or analog of the present invention sufficient to prevent the condition.

In another aspect the present invention relates to a method of treating a disease of the central nervous system CNS in a subject in need of treatment comprising administering to said subject a therapeutically effective amount of glycosylated valproic acid and analogs described herein.

In another aspect the present invention relates to the use of any one or more of glycosylated valproic acid and analogs disclosed herein in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of a disease of the central nervous system CNS in a subject in need of such treatment.

In some embodiments the CNS disease is a neurodegenerative disease including those inherited neurodegenerative diseases that are polyglutamine expansion diseases. In some embodiments the neurodegenerative disease is a disorder characterized by progressive dementia in the absence of other prominent neurologic signs such as Alzheimer s disease senile dementia of the Alzheimer type and Pick s disease lobar atrophy . In some embodiments the neurodegenerative disease is a syndrome combining progressive dementia with other prominent neurologic abnormalities such as Huntington s disease multiple system atrophy combining dementia with ataxia and or manifestations of Parkinson s disease progressive supranuclear palsy Steel Richardson Olszewski diffuse Lewy body disease or corticodentatonigral degeneration. In some embodiments the syndromes appear mainly in children or young adults e.g. Hallervorden Spatz disease and progressive familial myoclonic epilepsy or are those gradually developing abnormalities of posture and movement such as paralysis agitans Parkinson s disease striatonigral degeneration progressive supranuclear palsy torsion dystonia torsion spasm dystonia musculorum deformans spasmodic torticollis and other dyskinesis familial tremor and Gilles de la Tourette syndrome.

One further aspect of the invention relates to methods for producing totipotent tissue culture comprising selecting living tissue and cultivating the tissue on a medium which contains an effective amount of a glycosylated valproic acid or analog of the present invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to produce totipotent tissue. The totipotent tissue may be transferred to a second medium for cultivating and growing the tissues. In some embodiments the living tissues may be harvested from a subject in need of treatment with totipotent tissues or from a donor.

Glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention can be administered alone or in combination with other therapies suitable for the disease or disorder being treated. Where separate dosage formulations are used the valproic acid derivative and the other therapeutic agent can be administered concurrently or sequentially. The pharmaceutical combination is understood to include all these regimens. Administration in these various ways is suitable for the present invention as long as the beneficial therapeutic effect of the valproic acid derivative and the other therapeutic agent are realized at the desired time.

Glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention can be used in conjunction with stem cells. Stem cells have the potential for unlimited rounds of replication and are capable of generating all the mature specialized cell types through differentiation found in the adult such as skin cells bone marrow bone liver and cartilage.

Stem cells can also be pluripotent which are stem cells able to differentiate into any of three germ cell layers 1 mesoderm which form lungs the GI tract and the lining of the stomach 2 ectoderm which form bones muscles blood and the urogenital tract and 3 the ectoderm which forms skin and the nervous system.

It has been determined that mature specialized cells are not necessarily immortally committed. Initially viruses and four expressed genes were able to reprogram or induce pluripotency in adult cells. Since then valproic acid an HDAC inhibitor has been shown to be able to eliminate the use of potentially dangerous viruses and two of the four genes in stem cell reprogramming. Hunter A. L. and Cooke J. P. Nonviral Reprogramming Toward a Safer Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell in Advances in Wound Care vol. 2 Ch. 4 2011 Huangfu et al. 2008 26 7 795 7 each herein incorporated by reference. Additionally valproic acid demonstrates much greater potency. Thus in some embodiments the glycosylated valproic acid and analogs can be used in stem cell reprogramming.

Histone deacetylases HDACs are enzymes which tighten the chromatin package which inhibits transcription. Histone deacetylase inhibitors counter the HDACs allowing the chromatin package to unwind and allowing transcription. Weinhold B. 2006. Epigenetics The Science of Change. 114 A160 A167 Hunter A. L. and Cooke J. P. Nonviral Reprogramming Toward a Safer Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell in Advances in Wound Care vol. 2 Ch. 4 2011 each herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Thus HDAC inhibitors such as valproic acid play a major role in the field of stem cell proliferation and as a result in the field of tissue and organ regeneration. Thus the glycosylated valproic acid and analogs can be used in the field of tissue and organ regeneration.

In another aspect the glycosylated valproic acid and analogs can be used in both reprogramming of adult cells to the totipotent state and further on to other adult cells and in stem cell proliferation in the rate of growth of those cells. Thus glycosylated valproic acid and analogs can be used as a tool in organ regeneration and as a tool kit in that field for improving the rate of cell proliferation.

In addition in the CNS and in the muscle wasting field glycosylated valproic acid and analogs can be used in gene therapy. For example there may be benefits in cardiac muscle regeneration. Thus the use of glycosylated valproic acid and analogs extends to cardiac hypertrophy.

Glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention may be administered in combination with one or more active agents. Examples of active agents suitable for combination with valproic acid derivatives of the present invention include HDAC inhibitors alkylating agents antibiotic agents antimetabolic agents hormonal agents plant derived agents anti angiogenic agents differentiation inducing agents such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. RE40 703 7 279 331 RE39 754 6 794 392 6 281 214 and 5 278 155 each herein incorporated by reference in its entirety retinoid receptor modulators cytotoxic cytostatic agents chemotherapeutic agents HMG CoA reductase inhibitors prenyl protein transferase inhibitors such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 610 722 6 562 823 6 387 903 6 358 956 and 6 316 436 and in International Patent Application publications WO 2001 051125 WO2001 007046 WO 2000 051614 WO 1999 010329 EP1158984 and EP1324985 each herein incorporated by reference in its entirety any agent that interferes with cell cycle checkpoints inhibitors of cell proliferation and survival signaling apoptosis inducing agents cell growth arrest inducing agents or any combination thereof. In addition the compounds of the present invention are particularly useful when co administered with radiation therapy.

In some embodiments glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention may be administered in combination with an inhibitor of tyrosine and or serine threonine kinases and tyrosine kinase receptors involved in cellular signaling. Examples of kinase receptors involved in cellular signaling include Src AbI Platelet Derived Growth Factor Receptors Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptors c Met Fibroblast Growth Factor receptors Epidermal Growth Factor Receptors Insulin Growth Factor Receptors mTOR Flt 3 CSF I Receptor AKT Polo kinases Aurora Kinases STAT 3 PI 3 Kinase Ras Raf and Mitogen Activated Kinases MEK and ERK. Examples of tyrosine kinase and serine threonine kinase inhibitors include AMG706 ZA6474 BAY 43 9006 Sunitinib Dasatinib CEP 701 XL647 XL999 Lapatinb Imatinib MLN518 CT53518 PKC412 ST1571 AMN107 AEE 788 OSI 930 OSI 817 SU1 1248 AG 03736 GW 786034m and CEP 7055.

HMG CoA reductase inhibitors that may be combined with glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention include atorvastatin LIPITOR fluvastatin LESCOL lovastatin MEVACOR pravastatin PRAVACHOL simvastatin ZOCOR and rosuvastatin CRESTOR .

HDAC inhibitors that may be combined with glycosylated valproic acid or analog of the present invention include derivatives of valproic acid known to those skilled in the art hydroxamic acid derivatives cyclic tetrapeptides benzamides and electrophilic ketones. The hydroxamic acid derivatives that may be combined with glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention may be suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA m carboxycinnamic acid bishydroxamide CBHA pyroxamide trichostatin analogues such as trichostatin A TSA and trichostatin C salicylhydroxamic acid suberoyl bishydroxamic acid SBHA azelaic bishydroxamic acid ABHA azelaic 1 hydroxamate 9 anilide AAHA 6 3 chlorophenylureido carpoic hydroxamic acid 3Cl UCHA oxamflatin 2E 5 3 phenylsulfonyl aminol phenyl pent 2 en 4 ynohydroxamic acid scriptaid PXD 101 Prolifix LAQ 824 CHAP MW2796 MW2996 or any of the hydroxamic acids disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 369 108 5 932 616 5 700 811 6 087 367 and 6 511 990 each herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. The cyclic tetrapeptides that may be combined with glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention include trapoxin A TPX cyclic tetrapeptide cyclo L phenylalanyl L phenylalanyl D pipecolinyl L 2 amino 8 oxo 9 10 epoxy decanoyl FR901228 FK 228 depsipeptide FR225497 cyclic tetrapeptide apicidin cyclic tetrapeptide cyclo N O methyl L tryptophanyl L isoleucinyl D pipecolinyl L 2 amino 8 oxodecanoyl apicidins Ia Ib Ic IIa and IIb HC toxin cyclic tetrapeptide WF27082 cyclic tetrapeptide or chlamydocin. Other HDAC Inhibitors that may be combined with glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention include natural products psammaplins and Depudecin.

Alkylating agents that may be combined with glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention include bischloroethylamines or nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil cyclophosphamide ifosfamide mechlorethamine melphalan or uracil mustard aziridines e.g. thiotepa alkyl alkone sulfonates e.g. busulfan nitrosoureas e.g. carmustine lomustine streptozocin nonclassic alkylating agents altretamine dacarbazine and procarbazine platinum compounds carboplastin oxaliplatin and cisplatin and fluorouracil 5 FU and other pyrimidine analogs.

Antimetabolic agents or antimetabolites that may be combined with glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention include enocitabine carmofur tegafur pentostatin doxifluridine trimetrexate fludarabine capecitabine galocitabine cytarabine cytarabine ocfosfate fosteabine sodium hydrate raltitrexed paltitrexid emitefur tiazofurin decitabine nolatrexed pemetrexed nelzarabine 2 deoxy 2 methylidenecytidine 2 fluoromethylene 2 deoxycytidine N 5 2 3 dihydro benzofuryl sulfonyl N 3 4 dichlorophenyl urea N6 4 deoxy 4 N2 2 E 4 E tetradecadienoyl glycylamino L glycero B L manno heptopyranosyl adenine aplidine ecteinascidin troxacitabine 4 2 amino 4 oxo 4 6 7 8 tetrahydro 3H pyrimidino 5 4 b 1 4 thiazin 6 yl 1 S ethyl 2 5 thienoyl L glutamic acid aminopterin 5 fluorouracil alanosine 11 acetyl 8 carbamoyloxymethyl 4 formyl 6 methoxy 14 oxa 1 11 diazatetr acyclo 7.4.1.0.0 tetradeca 2 4 6 trien 9 yl acetic acid ester swainsonine lometrexol dexrazoxane methioninase 2 cyano 2 deoxy N4 palmitoyl 1 B D arabino furanosyl cytosine 3 aminopyridine 2 carboxaldehyde thiosemicarbazone trastuzumab 5 fluorouracil methotrexate cytosine arabinoside hydroxyurea gemcitabine paclitaxel 6 mercaptopurine 6 thioguanine and dacarbazine.

Plant derived agents that may be combined with glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention include alkaloids and analogues such as vincristine vinbalstine vindesine vinorelbine.

Chemotherapeutic agents that may be combined with glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention include abarelix actinomycin D aldesleukin alemtuzumab alitretinoin ailopurinol altretamine amifostine anastrozole arsenic trioxide asparaginase azacitidine 5 azacytidine SAzaC azathioprine BCG live bevaceizumab bexarotene bleomycin bortezomib busulfan calusterone camptothecin capecitabine carboplatin carmustine celecoxib cetuximab chlorambucil cinacalcet cisplatin cladribine cyclophosphamide cytarabine dacarbazine dactinomycin darbepoetin alfa daunorubicin denileukin diftitox dexrazoxane docetaxel doxorubicin dromostanolone Elliott s B solution epirubicin epoetin alfa estramustine etoposide exemestane filgrastim floxuridine fludarabine fluorouracil fulvestrant gemcitabine gemtuzumab ozogamicin gefitinib goserelin hydroxyurea ibritumomab tiuxetan idarubicin ifosfamide imatinib interferon alfa 2a interferon alfa 2b irinotecan SN 38 letrozole leucovorin levamisole lomustine meclorethamine megestrol melphalan mercaptopurine mesna methotrexate methoxsalen methylprednisolone mitomycin C mitotane mitoxantrone nandrolone nofetumomab oblimersen oprelvekin oxaliplatin paclitaxel pamidronate pegademase pegaspargase pegfilgrastim pemetrexed pentostatin pipobroman plicamycin polifeprosan porfimer procarbazine quinacrine rasburicase rituximab sargramostim streptozocin talc tamoxifen tarceva temozolomide teniposide testolactone thalidomide thioguanine thiotepa topotecan toremifene tositumomab trastuzumab tretinoin uracil mustard valrubicin vinblastine vincristine vinorelbine and zoledronate. In some embodiments the chemotherapeutic agent is a cocktail such as FEC 100 5 fluorouracil epirubicin and cyclophosphamide .

Anti angiogenic agents that may be combined with glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention include VEGF TRAPanti VEGF receptor antibodies angiostatin endostatin batimastat captopril cartilage derived inhibitor genistein interleukin 12 lavendustin medroxyprogesterone acetate recombinant human platelet factor 4 tecogalan thrombospondin TNP 470 VEGF antagonists anti VEGF monoclonal antibody soluble VEGF receptor chimaeric protein antisense oligonucleotides antisense oligodexoynucleotides siRNAs anti VEGF aptamers pigment epithelium derived factor a tyrosine kinase inhibitor an inhibitor of epidermal derived growth factor an inhibitor of fibroblast derived growth factor an inhibitor of platelet derived growth factor an MMP matrix metalloprotease inhibitor an integrin blocker interferon pentosan polysulfate a cyclooxygenase inhibitor carboxyamidotriazole combretastatin A 4 squalamine 6 O chloroacetyl carbonyl fumagillol thalidomide troponin 1 indolinethiones pyridopyrimidines quinoazolines phenyl pyrrolo pyriraidines trastuzumab bevacizumab calcium influx inhibitor CAI neomycin squalamme marimastat prinomastat AG 3340 metastat COL 3 and cinnoline derivatives. Additional anti angiogenic compounds that may be administered in combination with the compounds of the present invention are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 192 744 5 426 100 5 733 876 5 840 692 5 854 205 5 990 280 5 994 292 6 342 219 6 342 221 6 346 510 6 479 512 6 719 540 6 797 488 6 849 599 6 869 952 6 887 874 6 958 340 and 6 979 682 each herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the compounds of the present invention are administered in combination with an Hsp90 inhibitor. In some embodiments Hsp90 inhibitors can be any Hsp90 inhibitor which is used has been used or is known to be useful for the treatment of disorders associated with the expression of Hsp90. Examples of Hsp90 inhibitors that may be combined with the compounds of the present invention include geldanamycin 17 allylamino 17 demethoxygeldanamycin geldanamycin derivatives such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 890 917 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety dexamethasone and benzoquinone ansamycins such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 872 715 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Additional Hsp90 inhibitors are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 613 780 6 281 229 and 6 903 116 each herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Histone deacetylases HDACs as that term is used herein are enzymes that catalyze the removal of acetyl groups from lysine residues in the amino terminal tails of the nucleosomal core histones. As such HDACs together with histone acetyl transferases HATs regulate the acetylation deacetylation of histones. Histone acetylation deacetylation affects gene expression and inhibitors of HDACs such as glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention may induce growth arrest differentiation and or apoptosis of transformed cells in vitro and inhibit tumor growth in vivo. HDACs can be divided into three classes based on structural homology. Class I HDACs HDACs 1 2 3 and 8 bear similarity to the yeast RPD3 protein are located in the nucleus and are found in complexes associated with transcriptional co repressors. Class II HDACs HDACs 4 5 6 7 and 9 are similar to the yeast HDA1 protein and have both nuclear and cytoplasmic subcellular localization. Both Class I and II HDACs may be inhibited by valproic acid derivatives of the present invention. Class III HDACs form a structurally distant class of NAD dependent enzymes that are related to the yeast SIR2 proteins.

Histone deacetylase inhibitors or HDAC inhibitors as that term is used herein are compounds that are capable of inhibiting the deacetylation of histones in vivo in vitro or both. As such HDAC inhibitors inhibit the activity of at least one histone deacetylase. As a result of inhibiting the deacetylation of at least one histone an increase in acetylated histone occurs and accumulation of acetylated histone is a suitable biological marker for assessing the activity of HDAC inhibitors. Therefore procedures that can assay for the accumulation of acetylated histones can be used to determine the HDAC inhibitory activity of compounds of interest. It is understood that compounds that can inhibit histone deacetylase activity can also bind to other substrates and as such can inhibit other biologically active molecules such as enzymes. It is also to be understood that glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention are capable of inhibiting any of the histone deacetylases set forth above or any other histone deacetylases.

For example in patients receiving HDAC inhibitors the accumulation of acetylated histones in peripheral mononuclear cells as well as in tissue treated with HDAC inhibitors can be determined against a suitable control.

The terms in combination and combined with refer to the use of more than one treatment. The terms do not restrict the order in which treatments are administered to a subject being treated with the combination and do not necessarily require that the components be mixed as a mixture. A first treatment can be administered prior to concurrently with after or within any cycling regimen involving the administration of a second treatment to a subject treated with the compounds of the present invention. For example the first treatment can be administered 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours 6 hours 12 hours 24 hours 48 hours 72 hours 96 hours 1 week 2 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks 5 weeks 6 weeks 8 weeks or 12 weeks before a treatment or the first treatment can be administered 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours 6 hours 12 hours 24 hours 48 hours 72 hours 96 hours 1 week 2 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks 5 weeks 6 weeks 8 weeks or 12 weeks after a second treatment. Such treatments include for example the administration of valproic acid derivatives in combination with one or more chemotherapeutic agents or HDAC inhibitors.

The terms prevent preventing and prevention as used herein refer to a decrease in the occurrence of pathological cells e.g. a condition associated with the tissue degeneration in an animal. The prevention may be complete e.g. the total absence of pathological cells in a subject. The prevention may also be partial such that the occurrence of pathological cells in a subject is less than that which would have occurred without the present invention.

Certain of the compounds of the present invention may exist as stereoisomers including optical isomers. The invention includes all stereoisomers and both the racemic mixtures of such stereoisomers as well as the individual enantiomers that may be separated according to methods that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Certain of the compounds of the present invention may also exist as diasteroisomers wherein one or more substituents on the valproic acid analog contain one or more chiral centers. It should be recognized that in certain of the compounds one of the stereoisomers of a valproic acid analog may have a stronger teratogenic effect than the other one and the more teratogenic isomer is thought to inhibit HDACs more efficiently U.S. Pat. No. 7 265 154 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Thus the present invention encompasses the racemic mixtures of the respective compounds the less active isomers and in particular the more active isomers.

Glycosylated valproic acid and analogs according to the present invention are contemplated to be useful in the treatment of patients in both human and veterinary medical practice. Glycosylated valproic acid and analogs can be administered to a patient in need thereof by any of the conventional parenteral routes of administration as may be appropriate for use in conjunction with the selective activation afforded by glycosylated valproic acid and analogs according to the invention for the disease or condition to be treated. These routes include intravenous i.v. injection intramuscular i.m. injection subcutaneous s.c. injection infusion into a body cavity cerebrospinal injection localized infiltration into a target tissue buccal absorption and aerosol inhalation in an amount effective to treat the disease or disorder. Formulations of the compounds of the present invention into pharmaceutical compositions suitable for the chosen route of administration may include any physiologically acceptable solutions suspensions emulsions microemulsions micellar dispersions or the like with any pharmaceutically acceptable excipients as are known in the art. In addition formulations may include various encapsulations or depots designed to achieve sustained release of glycosylated valproic acid and analogs as in those circumstances where a chronic disorder is to be treated.

Compositions comprising glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention may also be administered by intravenous intramuscular topical or oral administration or by a vascular stent impregnated with a glycosylated valproic acid and analog. While the dosage of therapeutically effective amount of glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention may vary from and also depends upon the age and condition of each individual patient to be treated. When an individual patient is to be treated in the case of intravenous administration a daily dose of 0.01 10 mg of glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention such as compound of formula I II III IV V or VI or combinations thereof per kg weight of human being is generally given for treatment. For intramuscular administration a daily dose of 0.1 10 mg of glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention such as compound of formula I II III IV V or VI or combinations thereof per kg weight of human being is generally given for treatment. For oral administration a daily dose of 0.5 50 mg of glycosylated valproic acid and analogs of the present invention such as compound of formula I II III IV V or VI or combinations thereof per kg weight of human being is generally given for treatment.

HDAC inhibitory activity of a particular compound can be determined in vitro using for example an enzymatic assay which shows inhibition of at least one histone deacetylase. Further determination of the accumulation of acetylated histones in cells treated with a particular composition can be determinative of the HDAC inhibitory activity of a compound.

Synthesis of a glycosylated valproic acid derivative typically involves several steps. For example Scheme 1 may be followed if the synthesis of compounds of formula I in which the sugar group is derived from glucose is desired. Since the ultimate purpose is to esterify the anomeric hydroxy group of the sugar molecule with the carboxylic acid group of the valproic acid derivative the protection scheme should be such that the group used to protect the anomeric hydroxy group should be removable without affecting the protecting groups of the other hydroxy groups i.e. hydroxy groups at C 2 C 3 C 4 and C 6 . For example the anomeric hydroxy group of the sugar may be protected using any of the hydroxy protecting groups known to be hydrolyzed under mild acidic conditions. Examples of such protecting groups include 2 methoxyethoxymethyl MEM group 4 pentinyloxymethyl POM group t butoxymethyl BOM group methoxymethyl MOM group and methylthiomethyl MTM . Even simple conversion of the anomeric hydroxy group of the sugar to simple ether e.g. methyl ethyl propyl etc may be suitable.

In some embodiments the protecting group can comprise a benzyl group which can be removed by hydrogenation to yield a valproate analog. In some embodiments the protecting group can comprise an acetate moiety such as for example a halogenated acetate such as for example chloroacetate or bromoacetate or an alkoxyacetate such as for example methoxyacetate ethoxyacetate propoxyacetate or the like. These protecting groups can be removed under very mild basic conditions such as deprotection using sodium carbonate or sodium bicarbonate in methanol THF and water yielding a valproate analog.

In some embodiments the anhydride form of valproic acid can be used instead of valproic acid to synthesize the valproate analog.

For each particular protecting group used there is a known method of attaching the protecting group to and cleaving it from the compound. For example a sugar protected with a MOM group may be prepared by treating the sugar with methoxymethylene chloride in THF the presence of NaH. Cleavage of the methoxymethyl group of the MOM protected sugar may be achieved under variety of conditions for example reacting the protected sugar with MeSiBr in dichloromethane at 0 C. for about ten hours is expected to yield almost quantitative de protected sugar. Further details of protection deprotection of hydroxy groups may be found in Greene T. W. and Wuts E. G. M. Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis Wiley Sons 2006 Chapter 2 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Scheme 1 shows one approach to the synthesis of glycosylated valproic acid analogs at C 1 of a carbohydrate with glucose as an example. In this approach the anomer obtained is due to the presence and participation of the acyl protecting group at C 2. It should be noted that the acyl protecting groups chosen should be hydrolyzed while leaving the valproate functionality intact. This can be accomplished by employing protecting groups that contain an electron withdrawing group or groups adjacent to the carbonyl of the ester. In the case shown that electron group is Cl to form chloroacetate protecting groups. Other halogens such as Br and I could also be used as well as dichloro dihalo and methoxy ethoxy etc. Removal of these protecting groups can be accomplished under very mild conditions such as NaHCOin a THF methanol water solvent system. After formation of the penta chloroacetyl glucose the requisite C 1 bromide is obtained with hydrobromic acid in acetic acid. Glycosylation with valproic acid to provide predominantly the anomer can then be accomplished using standard Konigs Knorr conditions with silver oxide and a silver catalyst silver triflate. This reaction works best if accompanied with 4 A molecular sieves to absorb the water by product formed during the reaction. Removal of the protecting groups under the conditions mentioned above should provide the desired anomer of glucosyl 1 valproate.

Outlined in Scheme 2 is an approach that would provide the corresponding a anomer of that prepared in Scheme 1. In this case employing ether protecting groups such as benzyl groups eliminates neighboring group participation from the C 2 protecting group. Again using glucose as an example known 1 bromo 2 3 4 6 tetra O benzyl glucose can be prepared easily be prepared. Glycosylation of valproic acid under Konigs Knorr conditions using silver oxide and silver triflate as a catalyst should in this case provide predominantly the anomer. Removal of the benzyl groups by hydrogenation under established conditions should provide the desired a anomer of glucosyl 1 valproate.

Scheme 3 presents a somewhat different approach in which the anomeric hydroxyl is acylated with valproic acid or related compounds. Also rather than the more specific pyranose form of glucose presented in Schemes 1 and 2 a general carbohydrate with the furanose form is shown in Scheme 3. It is expected that a variety of different furanose and pyranoses could be substituted for the glucose used in Schemes 1 and 2 and general furanose in Scheme 3. Initially some or all of the hydroxyl groups in the sugar molecule for example a monosaccharide or a disaccharide is first protected. The hydroxy protecting group may be any protecting group that is suitable. A characteristic property of protecting groups that may be suitable with the process of Scheme 3 is that they are removable under conditions that would leave the other protecting groups intact.

Scheme 3 can also include a deprotection step to remove the protecting group to yield the compounds of formulas I VI.

A person skilled in the art would recognize that any exemplified specific reagent in the scheme is merely an example and that it can be replaced with many other reagents. For example any non nucleophilic base may be used instead of DMAP. Examples of other non nucleophilic mild bases that may be suitable with the process of Scheme 1 include pyridine based bases such as 2 6 di tert butyl 4 methylpyridine and 2 6 di tert butylpyridine tertiary amines such as ethyldiisopropylamine triethylamine and N N dimethylcyclohexylamine and bicyclic amines such as 1 4 diazabicyclo 2.2.2 octane DABCO 1 4 azabicyclo 2.2.2 octane ABCO 1 azabicyclo 3.3.3 undecane ABCU 2 azabicyclo 2.2.1 hept 5 en 3 one 1 3 3 trimethyl 6 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octane 3 azabicyclo 3.1.0 hexane 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 3 3 6 9 9 pentamethyl 2 10 diazabicyclo 4.4.0 dec 1 ene and 6 dibutylamino 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene .

DCC is an example of carbodiimide that is suitable as a coupling agent for preparing esters and amides from carboxylic acids and alcohols or amines Diisopropylcarbodiimide DIC may also be used. Other suitable coupling agents include 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide EDC N cyclohexyl N 2 morpholinoethyl carbodiimide methyl p toluenesulfonate 1 3 Dimethylaminopropyl 3 ethylcarbodiimide polymer bound N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride 1 3 di p tolylcarbodiimide and N Benzyl N cyclohexylcarbodiimide.

Furthermore in the examples presented above the valproic acid is attached at the anomeric position C 1 of the carbohydrate. However if so desired valproic acid or its related compounds could be attached at the primary hydroxyl at C 6 as shown in Scheme 4. This might be accomplished directly on the carbohydrate or it might be necessary to first functionalize the anomeric carbon as an acetal functionality. Selective acylation of the primary C 6 hydroxyl in preference over the secondary hydroxyls with acetyl chloride has been accomplished using a hindered base like collidine or Hunig s base iPrEtN Ishihar 1993 Gemma 2005 each herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . However with more hindered acid chlorides like the one derived from valproic acid less hindered bases such as Kawabata 2007 Card 1983 each herein incorporated by reference in its entirety pyridine with 4 DMAP might prove more successful. Other methods to accomplish the selective acylation also include but are not limited to the use of hindered boronic acid catalysts Lee 2011 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety lipases Bjoerkling 1989 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety and per O TMS protected monosaccharides Witschi 2010 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety .

In some embodiments the coupling agents comprise a 2 3 dideoxy hexoses which can be made via the Ferrier reaction following hydrogenation.

The sugar used in Schemes 1 2 and or 3 may be any compound having sugar type structure whether it is naturally occurring or is derived from a naturally occurring sugar. For example the glycosylated valproic acid analog may be comprised of an analog linked at C 1 of the sugar such as pyranose analogs furanosse analogs disaccharide analogs 2 aminoacyl carbohydrate analogs 2 deoxy carbohydrate analogs ribose analogs and 2 deoxyribose analogs as shown for example in .

The sugar used in Scheme 4 may be any compound having sugar type structure whether it is naturally occurring or is derived from a naturally occurring sugar. For example representative glycosylated valproic acid analog may be comprised of an analog linked at C 5 or C 6 of the sugar such as pyranose analogs furanosse analogs disaccharide analogs 2 aminoacyl carbohydrate analogs 2 deoxy carbohydrate analogs ribose analogs and 2 deoxyribose analogs as shown for example in .

In general Scheme 4 outlines an approach to forming analogs at C 6 the primary hydroxyl of the carbohydrate. These analogs functionalized at C 6 may be more stable in a wide variety of formulations and extend release of the valproic acid in vivo as compared to analogs glycosylated at C 1 position.

In addition to direct glycosylation of valproic acid analogs indirect glycosylation is also contemplated. Insertion of a linker moiety between the saccharide and the valproic acid or analog thereof can minimize potential acyl migration of directly linked analogs. In the case of analogs from direct glycosylation the carbohydrate would be hydrolyzed in vivo by glycosidases. For compounds containing a linker between the saccharide and the valproic acid or analog thereof glycosidases would leave the linker covalently bound to the valproic acid or analog thereof. Choice of the linker would impact rate of release from the valproic acid or analog thereof.

One example of an extended linker is that of BAY 38 3441 2004 15 1284 1294 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . BAY 38 3441 contained a linker with phenylthiourea joined to a histidine residue which was used to link a 3 methyl fucose to camptothecin. Clinical failure of BAY 38 3441 was presumed to be due to inadequate camptothecin concentrations in vivo as a result of incomplete release from the parent compound.

In the case of the instant invention it is preferred that upon enzymatic cleavage of the carbohydrate that the linker between the carbohydrate and the valproic acid or analog thereof should be quickly expelled. Without being bound by theory a glycosylated phenol linked valproic acid or analog thereof would undergo hydrolysis to remove the carbohydrate followed by loss of the resultant phenolic benzyl ester . The half life of the phenolic benzyl ester intermediate can be modified by substituents on the phenyl ring system . It is further noted that substitution pattern on the phenyl group can be ortho meta or para . As shown in the glycosylated valproic acid derivative can operate as a pro drug to provide delivery of the valproic acid derivative in vivo. Thus in some embodiments the compounds of any of formulas I VI act as prodrugs to generate a valproic acid or derivative thereof in vivo. In some embodiments compounds of any of formulas I VI contain a linker group designated as Y herein and act as prodrugs to generate a valproic acid or derivative thereof in vivo. However operation of the compounds as prodrugs does not require insertion of a linker between the saccharide and the valproic acid derivative. Thus in some embodiments compounds of any of formulas I VI do not contain a linker group designated as Y herein and act as prodrugs to generate a valproic acid or derivative thereof in vivo.

Following etherification of a protected carbohydrate with a phenol derivative such as a protected 4 hydroxyalkyl phenol and subsequent removal of the protecting group would provide the carbohydrate attached to the phenol linker. Esterification of the primary alcohol with an acid derivative would occur under conditions known to the skilled artisan to append the valproic acid or analog thereof. Removal of the carbohydrate protecting groups would provide the glycosylated valproic acid analog containing a linker between the sugar and the valproic acid or analog thereof.

Having now fully described this invention it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the same can be performed within a wide and equivalent range of conditions formulations and other parameters without affecting the scope of the invention or any embodiment thereof. All patents patent applications and publications cited herein are fully incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

It will recognized that one or more features of any embodiments disclosed herein may be combined and or rearranged within the scope of the invention to produce further embodiments that are also within the scope of the invention.

Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation numerous equivalents to the specific substances and procedures described herein. Such equivalents are considered to be within the scope of this invention and are covered by the following claims.

Examples are provided below to facilitate a more complete understanding of the invention. The following examples illustrate the exemplary modes of making and practicing the invention. However the scope of the invention is not limited to specific embodiments disclosed in these Examples which are for purposes of illustration only since alternative methods can be utilized to obtain similar results.

Glucose can be suspended in a combination of 8 equivalents each of chloroacetic acid and pyridine. Chloroacetyl chloride 6 equivalents can then be added slowly and the progress of the reaction monitored by HPLC LC MS or TLC. Once the reaction is complete the contents can then be poured into solvent ether ethyl acetate or dichloromethane of 10 times its volume and the resulting organic layer washed successively with an equal volume of water saturated sodium bicarbonate dilute 5 HCl saturated CuSO and brine. The solvent can then be removed under reduced pressure and the resulting syrup purified by flash silica gel column chromatography to provide the product 1 2 3 4 6 penta chloroacetyl glucose as a mix of anomers.

1 2 3 4 6 Penta chloroacetyl glucose can then be dissolved in 32 35 HBr in acetic acid such that 5 6 equivalents of HBr are present in the reaction mixture. The reaction mixture can be stirred and monitored by HPLC LC MS or TLC until complete. The mixture would then poured into 5 times its volume of dichloromethane and the mixture washed 3 times with an equal volume of water and once each of an equal volume of saturated NaHCOand brine in that order. The solvent would be removed under reduced pressure and the product purified by silica gel column chromatography if needed to provide 2 3 4 6 Tetra chloroacetyl 1 bromoglucose. It should be noted that some of the Cl atoms on the chloroacetates might be displaced by Br this impurity would not affect the final product.

 2 3 4 6 Tetra chloroacetyl 1 bromoglucose would then be dissolved in an appropriate solvent THF and dried crushed 4 A molecular sieves added. Then more than 1 equivalent of both valproic acid and AgO added with a catalytic amount of AgOTf. The reaction would be monitored by HPLC LC MS or TLC until progress ceases or is complete. The reaction mixture would then be filtered the solvent removed and the product 2 3 4 6 tetra chloroacetyl 1 valproylglucose.

 2 3 4 6 tetra chloroacetyl 1 valproylglucose would then be dissolved in a 1 1 1 mixture of methanol THF water and 6 equivalents of ground NaHCOadded. The reaction mixture would then be stirred and progress monitored by HPLC LC MS or TLC. When the reaction is complete and all of the chloroacetates hydrolyzed the solvent would be removed under reduced pressure and the product 1 valproylglucose purified by silica gel column chromatography.

 Glucose would be dissolved or suspended in a minimum amount of an appropriate solvent DMF and 6 equivalents of benzyl bromide added. Then 6 equivalents of a base such as sodium hydride would be added in small portions such that the temperature of the reaction mixture does not exceed approximately 60 C. After all of the base is added the reaction mixture is monitored by HPLC LC MS or TLC. Once the reaction ceases to proceed further or is complete it is poured into approximately 10 times its volume of dichloromethane. This mixture would then be washed successively with equal volume water saturated NHCOand brine. The solvent would then be removed under reduced pressure and silica gel column chromatography would provide the product 1 2 3 4 6 penta O benzylglucose.

 1 2 3 4 6 Penta O benzyl glucose would then be dissolved in 32 35 HBr in acetic acid such that there are 5 equivalents of HBr present and the mixture stirred and monitored by HPLC LC MS or TLC until complete. The reaction mixture would then be poured into dicholormethane 5 times its volume and washed three times with an equal volume of water once with an equal volume of saturated NaHCO and once with brine. The solvent would be removed under reduced pressure and the resultant oil purified by silica gel column chromatography to provide the product 2 3 4 6 tetra O benzyl 1 bromoglucose.

 2 3 4 6 Tetra O benzyl 1 bromoglucose would be dissolved in an appropriate solvent such as THF or DMF then several equivalents of a salt of valproic acid such as potassium valproate would be added. If the reaction does not proceed well the mixture could be heated. Once the reaction is complete of ceases to proceed further the reaction mixture would be poured into 5 times its volume of dichloromethane and washed twice with an equal amount of water and once each with saturated NaHCOand brine. The solvent would then be removed under reduced pressure and the crude syrup purified by silica gel column chromatography to provide the product 2 3 4 6 tetra O benzyl 1 valproylglucose.

 2 3 4 6 Tetra O benzyl 1 valproylglucose would be dissolved in a minimum amount of an appropriate solvent such as methanol toluene or THF a catalytic amount of Pd on carbon added. The gas space in the reaction vessel would then be replaced with a neutral one such as nitrogen then replaced with hydrogen at a slightly positive pressure. This pressure would be maintained and the reaction would be monitored by HPLC LC MS or TLC. After completion of the reaction the hydrogen would be removed by vacuum replaced with a neutral nitrogen atmosphere before exposing to air. The reaction would be filtered and the solvent removed under reduced pressure. The crude syrup would then be purified by silica gel column chromatography to provide the product 1 valproylglucose.

 2 3 4 6 Tetra O benzyl 1 bromoglucose see Examples 1 and 2 would be dissolved in an appropriate solvent THF and dried crushed 4 A molecular sieves added. Then more than 1 equivalent of both valproic acid and AgO can then be added with a catalytic amount of AgOTf. The reaction would be monitored by HPLC LC MS or TLC until progress ceases or is complete. The reaction mixture would then be filtered the solvent removed and the product 2 3 4 6 tetra O benzyl 1 valproylglucose.

 2 3 4 6 Tetra O benzyl 1 valproylglucose would be dissolved in a minimum amount of an appropriate solvent such as methanol toluene or THF a catalytic amount of Pd on carbon added. The gas space in the reaction vessel would then be replaced with a neutral one such as nitrogen then replaced with hydrogen at a slightly positive pressure. This pressure would be maintained and the reaction would be monitored by HPLC LC MS or TLC. After completion of the reaction the hydrogen would be removed by vacuum replaced with a neutral nitrogen atmosphere before exposing to air. The reaction would be filtered and the solvent removed under reduced pressure. The crude syrup would then be purified by silica gel column chromatography to provide the product 1 valproylglucose.

Although the invention has been described and illustrated in the foregoing illustrative embodiments it is understood that the present disclosure has been made only by way of example and that numerous changes in the details of implementation of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which is limited only by the claims that follow. Features of the disclosed embodiments can be combined and rearranged in various ways to obtain additional embodiments within the scope and spirit of the invention.

