---

title: Method and system for generating search results from a user-selected area
abstract: A method of and device for generating search results from an electronic document. An electronic document includes one or more of an electronic book, a periodical, a multimedia presentation, a text document, one or more images, an electronic mail message, one or more sound clips, or one or more videos. The method includes displaying an electronic document, receiving a user selection of a portion of the electronic document, determining at least one keyword from the user selection of the electronic document, automatically transmitting the at least one keyword to a search engine without additional input by the user, receiving a first results list from the search engine, and outputting a result set along with the electronic document. The result set includes at least the first results list presented as a set of user-selectable links to additional information. The device includes appropriate hardware components for performing the method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09235643&OS=09235643&RS=09235643
owner: Diwan Software Limited
number: 09235643
owner_city: 
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20121121
---
The present disclosure is related to enhancing user interaction with electronic documents. More specifically the present disclosure is related to a software application including a content browser that includes a search component configured to search for information related to content contained within the electronic document.

Portable computing devices including devices having software for reading electronic documents are becoming increasingly common. For example several major manufacturers manufacture tablet computers that include software applications configured to display electronic documents such as novels text books periodicals and other similar documents.

Typically viewing an electronic document is a limited interactive experience for a user of the portable computing device. The user may interact with the device to turn pages zoom in or zoom out and play sounds or videos embedded in or linked from the document but otherwise the interaction with the electronic document is non existent.

The present disclosure is directed to a method and document system designed to enhance user interaction with electronic documents by increasing the potential interaction between the user and the electronic document.

In one general respect the embodiments disclose a method of generating search results from an electronic document. The method includes displaying an electronic document receiving a user selection of a portion of the electronic document determining at least one keyword from the user selection of the electronic document automatically transmitting the at least one keyword to a search engine without additional input by the user receiving a first results list from the search engine and outputting a result set along with the electronic document. The result set includes at least the first results list presented as a set of user selectable links to additional information.

In another general respect the embodiments disclose a device for generating search results from an electronic document. The device includes a processor a display operably connected to the processor and a non transitory computer readable medium operably connected to the processor. The non transitory computer readable medium contains a set of instructions configured to instruct the processor to display an electronic document on the display receive a user selection of a portion of the electronic document determine at least one keyword from the user selection of the electronic document automatically transmit the at least one keyword to a search engine without additional input by the user receive a first results list from the search engine and output a result set along with the electronic document. The result set includes at least the first results list presented as a set of user selectable links to additional information.

This disclosure is not limited to the particular systems devices and methods described as these may vary. The terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope.

As used in this document the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Nothing in this disclosure is to be construed as an admission that the embodiments described in this disclosure are not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention. As used in this document the term comprising means including but not limited to. 

As used herein a portable computing device refers to a mobile device that includes a processor and a tangible computer readable memory. The memory may contain programming instructions in the form of a software application that when executed by the processor causes the device to perform one or more processing operations according to the programming instructions. A typical portable computing device includes a touch sensitive screen including but not limited to resistive touchscreens capacitive touchscreens and infrared touchscreens. Examples of suitable devices include portable electronic devices such as tablet devices smartphones and the like.

An electronic document refers to a digital representation of one or more types of media configured to be displayed by an appropriate software application on a computing device such as a portable computing device. An electronic document may have a variety of file formats which may be identified by the technique used to create the electronic document and a file extension of the electronic document. The file format may also determine what type of software application may be used to view the electronic document. For example formats for a text or image based electronic document may include Adobe Portable Document Format PDF Microsoft .DOC format hypertext markup language HTML Microsoft XLS format tag image file format TIFF and other similar file formats that are typically associated with text or image based documents. Formats for a multimedia electronic document e.g. a sound clip or a video presentation may include an MPEG 4 audio file M4A a Windows media audio file WMA an MPEG 4 video file MP4 an audio video interleave file AVI a Windows media video file WMV and other similar file formats that are typically associated with multimedia documents. Examples of electronic documents may include but are not limited to electronic books or e books periodicals multimedia presentations text documents a collection of one or more images electronic mail messages a collection of one or more sound clips a collection of one or more videos and other related documents.

A subject refers to a topic or topics that an electronic document is about. A subject may be selected from one or more larger contents classifications such as geography sports news entertainment history and other similar classifications.

A keyword refers to a word that is typically associated with a specific subject for purposes of classifying content. A keyword phrase refers to a series of two or more words including at least one keyword.

The present disclosure describes an augmentation of and enhancement to a document system for reading an electronic document on a computing device such as a portable computing device. Typically the user accessible resources of a portable computing device are limited. For example there is limited display space on a portable computing device. As such only one application is generally open and accessible at one time. This becomes bothersome to a user when the user wants to perform separate and distinct tasks simultaneously. For example a user may be reading a newspaper article and want to search for additional information related to the topic of the article. Typically the user would have to close the software application they are viewing the article in open another application such as a web browser and enter their search terms into a searching tool such as an Internet search engine or an online encyclopedia search tool. The present disclosure teaches a document system and method for simplifying this process by enhancing the software used to view the electronic document to include a searching function accessible to the user while viewing the electronic document.

It should be noted that the various examples as described herein are directed to a portable computing device by way of example only. The teachings of the present disclosure are not merely limited to portable computing devices and may be applied to various other computing devices such as a desktop computer or computer workstation. Additionally the teachings of the present disclosure may be applied to computing devices integrated into other products. For example a computing device provided with an automobile may incorporate the teachings of the present invention so as to provide a driver or passenger of the automobile with a simplified process for obtaining additional information related to an electronic document being accessed by the automobile s computing device while the automobile is being operated.

Specifically the present disclosure relates to a document system having a dedicated software application configured to display an indexed electronic document selected from a library of similarly indexed documents. While viewing the electronic document a user can highlight an area of interest in the electronic document. The document system may parse the user selected area to determine if any keywords or keyword phrases are contained within the area and if there is at least one keyword automatically perform a search of those keywords without further input or action from the user. The document system may then present the user with the option to view the search results within the software application while still viewing the electronic document thereby providing a single resource for acquiring additional information related to one or more topics contained within the electronic document.

The portable computing device may be configured to run one or more software applications for displaying an electronic document such as electronic document . The electronic document may include text images videos sound or some combination thereof. As shown in the electronic document is a combination of text and images related to tourist attractions. The user may select an area of the electronic document that the user expresses interest in or wants to find additional information about. For example by utilizing the touchscreen characteristics of the display a user of portable computing device may drag their finger against the display to select an area of text on the electronic document . The user selected area may change appearance to indicate it has been selected. For example the area may change color as compared to the rest of the electronic document . If the user selects an area including an image or video not shown in the appearance of the image or video may be altered as well. For example the image or video may appear to be grayed out or a frame or other indicator may be added around the perimeter of the image or video or the video viewing frame contained within the electronic document .

As shown in once the user has selected an area the document system may update the software application to display one or more icons indicating that there may be possible search results related to the selected area . If the user selects the icon the document system may retrieve and output the search results via the software application . For example the document system may display the search results as an overlay on or positioned adjacent to the electronic document .

As shown in if the user selects the icon the document system may update the software application to display a set of search results . The search results may include a status bar indicating what percentage of the search has been completed. The search results may also include a search options pane where the user may select which sources to search. For example the search options pane may allow the user to select from various Internet search engines various online encyclopedias and related reference sources university archives personal document collections and other similar searchable information repositories.

The search results may further include a result set . The result set may include a sorted listing of links or references to websites articles documents multimedia presentations and other data types related to the user selected area selected from the original electronic document .

Once the document system displays the search results within the software application the document system may continue to execute the search in the background until the search is complete and the status bar indicates 100 of the search is completed. However during the search the result set may update moving more accurate and relevant results to the top of the list and moving less accurate results down the list. As the user may have to scroll through the result set to see the entire list only the most relevant results may be displayed to the user initially thereby increasing the likelihood that the user will initially select a higher quality result.

The document system may provide a set up interface accessible in the software application in addition to the search options pane such that the user may define their searching preferences. For example the user may define which search engine and online encyclopedia they want the document system to access to perform the search as well as the order of preference for returning results. Additionally the user may provide network addresses for specific document collections such as university archives or personal document collections to search. Alternatively the software application may include a set of preloaded archives to search.

For example a university may provide or sells its students an electronic document reader. The students have the option to purchase electronic copies of their text books for viewing on the electronic document reader. The associated document system and software application for viewing the text books may be programmed to search a document archive associated with the university such that students may access additional information related to topics they are studying.

Specific details of the electronic document searching as well as details related to extracting keywords from a document and collecting and analyzing usage data is explained in greater detail in the following discussions of .

The document system may scan and analyze the extracted text index and the document system may determine the subject s of the electronic document. The document system may use various techniques or algorithms may be used to determine the subject. For example the document system may extract and scan metadata associated with the electronic document to determine the subject of the electronic document. Alternatively if there is a synopsis of the electronic document available e.g. if the electronic document is a novel with an available synopsis the document system may scan and analyze the synopsis to determine the subject. In another example an electronic document may have an associated data or index file including various information related to the document such as subject and classification. The document system may scan the index file to determine the subject of the electronic document.

If no metadata or synopsis is available for the electronic document and the electronic document does not include an associated index file the document system may scan the full text index to identify the most commonly occurring words in the electronic document and based upon those commonly occurring words determine the subject of the electronic document. For example the document system may access a data structure such as a database listing a number of classifications subjects associated with each classification and a list of keywords that commonly appear within documents related to those subjects. The individual levels of detail may be organized into searchable ontologies. For example the document system may identify bark tail and fetch as commonly occurring words in the full text index. The document system may search the database and identify a number of ontologies that include at least one of the commonly occurring words. However each of the three commonly occurring words all are within the classification mammals and the subject dog. As such based upon the database search the document system may determine the subject of the electronic document is dogs.

The document system may extract and analyze one or more keyword from the full text index as well. The document system may incorporate one or more extraction and scoring techniques in order to analyze . illustrates one example of such a technique. The document system may extract one or more keywords from the full text index. Depending on the number of words in the document the document system may use one or more extraction techniques. For example if the electronic document has a small number of words e.g. less than 1000 the document system may determine all the words in the electronic document are keywords excluding the most common words in the language the electronic document is written in. For example if the electronic document is written in English the words the and a in to be of or and other common words may not be included in the extracted keywords.

However if the electronic document is larger and has a higher number of keywords various criteria may be used to determine what words in the electronic document are keywords. For example one criteria may define that a keyword must be a certain percentage of all words used in the electronic document. If an electronic document is 1500 words in length it may only include 100 120 distinct words. Excluding common words such as those defined above the document may only include 80 100 words. In this example to be considered a keyword a word may have to be at least 1 of the total words in the electronic document. Thus to be considered a keyword the word would have to appear at least 15 times in the document.

It should be noted that this criteria for determining a keyword is provided by way of example only. Additional sources of keywords such as lists of keywords sorted by subject and classification may be available for access and analyzing by the document system. For example the document system may have remote access to an application programming interface API that includes a listing of subjects and their associated keywords.

The document system may score each of the identified and extracted keywords based upon one or more scoring algorithms. For example the document system may ignore common words such as those listed above may be ignored during extraction or if extracted give those common words a score of zero. The document system may score keywords that appear frequently in all electronic documents stored in the library associated with the software application but are not determined to be common words a low score such as a one e.g. if the document system is using a numerical scoring system . The document system may score keywords that appear frequently in all electronic documents related to the same subject with a higher score e.g. a score of two assuming the same numerical scoring system as before. To determine frequency the document system may perform one or more comparisons of each keyword against a set of thresholds established based upon an analysis of the full text indexes of related documents. Then if the keywords satisfy the threshold the keyword may be determined to occur frequently in related documents. For example if an electronic document s subject is determined to be baseball the keywords bat base out and other related keywords may be compared against the full text index analysis from other documents related to baseball. A rules engine may determine an occurrence threshold to determine if a word commonly occurs in related documents. For example the rules engine may determine that a word occurring in 90 of documents related to a specific subject are common keywords for that subject. To continue the above example the keywords bat base and ball are determine to occur in 100 of documents related to baseball and thus satisfy the occurrence threshold and are given the higher score.

The document system may score keywords that are unique to a single electronic document in the library with an even higher score e.g. a score of three using the same numerical scoring system as discussed above. To determine if a word is unique to a single electronic document the document system may perform a similar process as that discussed above in regard to determining if a word occurs frequently in related electronic documents. For example the Rules engine may determine that a word occurring in less than 5 of all documents is unique and that keyword may be scored accordingly.

The document system may score keywords that are common to electronic documents in the same subject and that are unique to that subject with an even higher score e.g. a score of four using the same numerical scoring system as discussed above. For example in an electronic document related to baseball the keywords inning dugout and homerun may be the most commonly occurring keywords. The document system may determine via the rules engine that those words occur in more than 90 of books related to baseball but in less that 5 of all electronic documents in the library. Thus the document system may score those keywords with an even higher score. Additional scoring bonuses may be given to a keyword or keywords for matching words from a user s previous search history.

It should be noted that the words and percentages as used herein are provided by way of example only to describe a scoring system and other sets of documents keywords and thresholds may be used.

It should also be noted that scoring the keywords during indexing the electronic document is provided by way of example only. The individual keywords or keyword phrases may be identified and scored prior to the document system indexing the document. For example the electronic document may include an associated index file that includes a listing of keywords and their scores. Alternatively the document system may be operably connected to a database or other data store including a list of classifications subjects and associated scored keywords. As the document system identifies a keyword in the full text index the score for the keyword is extracted from the database. Additionally a keyword s associated score may change based upon changes to the electronic document library. For example as more documents are indexed into the library the percentage of documents an individual word appears in may change thereby altering the score of that keyword. As such as the library grows to include more documents the rules engine may adjust the percentages associated with occurrence thresholds to account for the increasing number of electronic documents.

The document system may determine combinations of keywords or keyword phrases in the text index as well. Keyword phrases may be defined as a series of words including at least one keywords common in the same electronic document as well as between electronic documents of the same subject. To continue the above example related to baseball the keyword phrases stolen base double play seventh inning stretch pitcher s mound and other similar multi word phrases may be determined to be keyword phrases.

Once the document system has extracted and analyzed the keywords from the user selected area the system may search the keywords. depicts a flow chart illustrating a sample search process. Initially the document system receives an indication of a user selected area of interest e.g. area as shown in . The document system may extract various keywords and keyword phrases contained within the user selected area. The document system may initiate a search for each of the extracted keywords and keyword phrases. For example the document system may construct a search query based upon one or more keywords extracted form the user selected area and transmit the query to one or more search engines online encyclopedias article repositories or other searchable collections of documents. Alternatively the document system may be configured to access a search specific API associated with an online search engine or encyclopedia and use an API interface to transmit the search to the appropriate search engine. Each individual search may produce a set of search results. Thus for each query the document system transmits to an individual searching tool a separate and distinct set of search results is returned. The document system may create a collective list of results for each search query as received from each search tool to which the query was sent. The document system may further assign a score to each result in the collective list. The assigned score may be based upon the keyword score the search is associated with as well as other factors such as how high the user may have ranked the results from an individual search tool. The results may include links from a search engine s results page articles from an online encyclopedia books periodicals articles multimedia presentations and other similar electronic documents related to the keyword or keyword phrase being searched.

Initially each of the search results in the collective list may have the same score or at least similar or corresponding scores as they derive from the same keyword search. However additional information may be used to further sort the search results. For example a search engine may prioritize search results. This prioritization may be used to adjust the scores of the search results. This process may be used to sort individual results having the same keyword score into a ranked listing.

The document system may merge each of the collective lists into a single result set. For each result item that is present in multiple collective lists the keyword scores associated with the search queries used to identify and locate that result item are added together thereby increasing the associated score for that individual result item. For example if a specific article is found in the search for three individual keywords all three keyword scores are added together to produce the article s score. The document system may sort the result set based upon the scores associated with the results and output to the user in the software application. Results with the highest keyword scores may be sorted to the top of the results list. Groups of results with the same score may be further sorted according to other factors. For example the position of a result in the original search engine results the position of the keyword in the electronic document that was highlighted by the user the number of times the keyword appears in the electronic document whether the user has selected that result in previous searches and other similar factors may impact the sorting of the results set.

For example the document system may rank the results via the rules engine such that the search results are filtered by overall keyword scores. Additionally the rules engine may filter the results such that results that are associated with the subject of the electronic document are sorted to the top of the search result set while results that are not related to the subject of the electronic document are sorted to the bottom of the search result set.

Alternatively or additionally the document system may create multiple filtered lists based upon received user input. In this example multiple icons may be provided for the user to select each of the available results lists. For example one icon may display all results generated based upon an encyclopedia search another icon may display all results generated based upon a specific search engine search and another icon may display all results that are multimedia presentations e.g. audio and video presentations .

The document system may output the result set to the user and in response to a user selection of at least a portion of the result set provide the user with additional information related to the result set.

It should be noted that the search process as shown herein is shown as a linear process by way of example only. Multiple steps may be performed concurrently and in real time to produce the result set. For example as each list of search results is created the next keyword may be searched such that the result set is produced more quickly as individual steps are performed in concert. Additionally the document system may sort and output an initial set of results to the user prior to the search process being completed thus the search continues in the background without any additional input from the user while still providing the user access to both the electronic document and the initial set of results. The initial set of results may be continuously updated to include additional results until each keyword or keyword phrase has been searched and sorted .

Depending on the programming of the software application additional features such as usage data collection and analysis may be performed. depicts a flow chart illustrating a sample process for collecting and analyzing usage data. The document system may collect usage data related to a specific electronic document including but not limited to a record of user selected areas keywords and keyword scores for words in the selected area search results clicked on by the user bookmarks created by the user based upon the search results notes made by the user based upon the search results the time a user spends on each page of the electronic document the date and time each area is selected by a user and other related data. The document system may send the collected usage data to a central server or other centralized computing device for aggregation and storage.

The documents system or another similar content providing system or application may use the stored usage data to customize information delivered to the user at a later time. For example the document system may use a user s previous search result to rank additional search results such that prioritized search results are presented to the user the results having documents the user is most likely to access regardless of score presented first. Similarly the document system may generate a list of content recommendations and targeted advertising for the user based upon the usage data. The document system may provide the content recommendations and targeted advertising to the user via the software application or the content recommendations and targeted advertising may be provided to the user via a third party service such as an email based advertising service.

It should be noted that the electronic documents as described herein are generally text based documents for purposes of examples only. Additional electronic documents such as sound clips videos multi media presentations and other similar electronic documents may be used accordingly. For example a video may be present to a user via the software application. A transcript of the video created by using speech recognition or manually user data entry may be stored in an information table related to the video along with additional text information related to the video such as subtitles transcripts of director s commentary user annotations and other text information. Additionally timing information related to both the video and the transcript may be stored in the information table. Multiple layers of text stored within the table may correspond to the same point in time. For example there may be subtitles director commentary and the transcript of the video presentation corresponding to the same point in time. During the presentation the user may have the option to select a point on a timeline related to the video and displayed by the software application. This selection results in the software application searching for more information related to the current text corresponding to the user selected point in the video. As the user continues to view the video keywords may be extracted from the text in real time and used to generate a live list of related content using the process as described above.

Additionally the memory may be configured to store the data structure for storing the library of electronic documents and other related information such as keyword lists and scores for each of the electronic documents. The data structure may be a database or other type of data structure configured to store organized information and provide searching and retrieval features for the information.

A wireless connection controller may be operably connected to the bus and configured to establish one or more wireless network connections. For example the wireless connection controller may be configured to establish a cellular telephone connection a cellular data network connection e.g. a 3G or 4G data connection a wireless data network or WiFi connection e.g. a 802.11n connection a Bluetooth connection and other similar wireless connections. It should be noted that a single wireless connection controller is shown by way of example only. A portable computing device may include multiple wireless connection controllers to increase throughput across multiple networks simultaneously.

An input output I O controller may be operably connected to the bus and configured to control various input and output devices. For example the I O controller may be operably connected to the input and display component as shown in . The I O controller may also be operably connected to a graphics processor a video output device and an audio output device via the bus and configured displaying and or presenting various images videos audio files and other content to a user of the portable computing device via an output device such as the input and display component .

It should be noted the architecture and arrangement of components as shown in are shown by way of example only to illustrate an exemplary portable computing device. Depending on the design construction and intended purpose of the portable computing device the type and arrangement of components may be altered. For example if the portable computing device is a smartphone additional components related to capturing a user s voice converting the voice to a digital signal and transmitting and receiving digitized voice information would be included.

Various of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be combined into many other different systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art each of which is also intended to be encompassed by the disclosed embodiments.

