---

title: Multiple diverging projectile system
abstract: A system for firing multiple projectiles in a parallel or diverging manner is provided. The system can comprise tail-end portions of projectiles that add structure to a cartridge, provide for efficient combustion, allow projectiles to transition from a straight configuration in the cartridge to a splayed configuration in a chamber, and ensure complete evacuation of the chamber. The system can include a tail-end portion of a particular projectile with openings that distribute energy from combustion of an ignition charge, facilitating firing of multiple projectiles. A tail-end portion of a projectile can include a ball joint upon which the body portion of the projectile moves causing an angle between the body portion and the tail-end portion. A space can exist in the body portion adjacent to the ball joint to allow off-center shifting of the body portion with respect to the ball joint.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08430036&OS=08430036&RS=08430036
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08430036
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120815
---
This is a divisional of patent application Ser. No. 12 604 018 lied Oct. 22 2009 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. W15QKN 04 C 1110 awarded by the Army Research and Development Command ARDEC . The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to a system and components thereof for firing multiple projectiles in a parallel or diverging manner.

It is preferable that the cartridge be made of a combustible material that leaves no structural components in the chamber upon firing of the cartridge . In this way the chamber can simply be reloaded from the magazine with another cartridge without having to eject or store a spent cartridge clean out the chamber or remove the gun from the shaft. Combustible cases are commonly used in modern artillery mortar and tank rounds. The wall thickness of combustible ordnance is typically such that the combustible material itself provides sufficient structural integrity for the round to withstand usual handling wear and tear. As such these designs when chambered require relatively high pressures to fully eliminate combustion residue.

While there is some precedent for using curved barrels to achieve a diverging projectile pattern this methodology forces peripheral projectiles to undergo a high G load turn during launch which induces high stresses on the bodies of the peripheral projectiles that could lead to premature structural failure or premature ignition of the explosive charge within the projectile should it exist.

While the design of the gun in can be sufficient under certain conditions it would be desirable to provide a design for repeatedly using combustible cartridges to launch projectiles in a diverging pattern without the requirement for high chamber pressures or without subjecting the projectiles themselves to unnecessarily high stresses during launch. Such a design would provide a safer more efficient system.

The above described problems are addressed and technical solutions are achieved in the art by a system and components thereof for efficiently firing multiple projectiles in a parallel or a diverging manner according to various embodiments of the present invention. Some of these embodiments avow the multiple projectiles to be fired repeatedly and without the use of curved barrels.

In some embodiments a projectile includes a body portion and a tail end portion connected to the body portion. The tail end portion can be removed from a chamber as the body portion of the projectile is launched upon cartridge firing. The tail end portion has a smaller cross sectional area than a cross sectional area of the body portion. The tail end portion can have a columnar shape for support stability stacking or combinations thereof for example. However other shapes can be used. When at least a portion of the tail end portion is inserted into an alignment casing of a cartridge the tail end portion provides additional structural support allowing less material to be used in the walls of the alignment casing.

In some embodiments the body portion of the projectile includes explosive material configured to detonate upon impact of the body portion with an object subsequent to combustion of charges in the cartridge.

In some embodiments the tail end portion can include openings to distribute energy from an ignition charge. According to this configuration the tail end portion or a portion thereof can be inserted into an alignment casing of a cartridge that contains a first combustible charge and combustion energy of the ignition charge can be uniformly distributed to the first combustible charge through the tail end portion thereby causing an efficient firing of the cartridge.

In some embodiments the tail end portion contains the ignition charge. In embodiments where the tail end portion is connected to the body portion of the projectile structural components of the tail end portion that survive combustion of the ignition charge are removed from the chamber when the body portion of the projectile is launched upon cartridge firing.

In some embodiments the tail end portion includes a ball joint upon which the body portion of the projectile moves or rotates causing an angle between the body portion and the tail end portion. In some embodiments a space exists in the body portion of the projectile adjacent to the ball joint into which the ball joint translates when the angle between the body portion and the tail end portion is caused. In some of these embodiments the body portion is centered on the ball joint when there is no angle between the body portion and the tail end portion and when the ball joint is in the space the body portion is off center with respect to the ball joint. In embodiments that include the ball joint the ball joint can be physically captured by the body portion such that the body portion and tail end portion remain connected when the angle between the body portion and the tail end portion is caused. Embodiments that include the ball joint allow a projectile initially oriented parallel to the cartridge axis to reorient as necessary to other features of the gun system.

In some embodiments the tail end portion does not include the ignition charge the openings or both but the tail end portion includes the ball joint or the space adjacent to the ball joint or both.

In some embodiments of the present invention a projectile cartridge includes a plurality of projectiles and an alignment casing. The plurality of projectiles each include a any embodiment of the body portion described herein and b any embodiment of the tail end portion described herein. The alignment casing encloses a portion of each of the plurality of projectiles and includes a first combustible material or charge. In some embodiments the ball joint is a portion of the tail end portion of a projectile that remains outside of i.e. is not enclosed by the alignment casing so that any combustible material in the alignment casing is not disturbed or prematurely ignited by movement on the ball joint. The alignment casing contains features that assist in aligning the plurality of projectiles for ejection in a parallel or diverging manner. In some embodiments the alignment casing arranges the plurality of projectiles to have a center projectile surrounded by peripheral projectiles.

In some embodiments the alignment casing is made of a second combustible material that completely combusts in a manner that leaves no structural components of the alignment casing in the chamber upon combustion of the second combustible material in conjunction with combustion of the first combustible material. In some embodiments the first combustible material and the second combustible material are different materials.

In some embodiments a projectile system includes a barrel system and a projectile cartridge. The barrel system includes multiple barrels extending in a parallel or diverging manner. The projectile cartridge includes an alignment casing and a plurality of projectiles. The alignment casing encloses a portion of each of the plurality of projectiles and includes a first combustible material or charge. The alignment casing contains features that assist in respectively aligning the plurality of projectiles with the barrels of the barrel system when the plurality of projectiles is inserted into the barrels of the barrel system. The plurality of projectiles each include any embodiment of the body portion described herein and any embodiment of the tail end portion described herein necessary to assist combustion and achieve alignment of the projectiles to their respective barrel in the barrel system.

In an embodiment of the present invention a projectile system includes a barrel system and a projectile cartridge. The barrel system includes multiple barrels extending in a diverging manner. The projectile cartridge includes an alignment casing and a plurality of projectiles. The alignment casing encloses a portion of each of the plurality of projectiles includes a first combustible material or charge and is made of a second combustible material. The alignment casing gains additional structural support from the tail end portions of the plurality of projectiles. The alignment casing arranges the plurality of projectiles to have a center projectile surrounded by peripheral projectiles. The alignment casing contains features that assist in respectively aligning the plurality of projectiles with the barrels of the barrel system when the plurality of projectiles are inserted into the barrels of the barrel system. The plurality of projectiles each include a body portion and a tail end portion connected to the body portion. The tail end portion of the center projectile includes openings that distribute energy passing through the tail end portion from combustion of an ignition charge contained within the tail end portion of the center projectile. The distributed energy causes combustion of the first and second combustible material and causes the plurality of projectiles to eject from the barrel system. The tail end portion of a peripheral projectile includes a ball joint and a space adjacent to the ball joint causing an angle and a translation between the corresponding body portion and the corresponding tail end portion allowing the peripheral projectile to fit into its respective barrel of the barrel system and eject therefrom in a diverging manner. As such a relatively weak alignment casing supported by tail end portions of projectiles can be used to launch multiple projectiles in a diverging manner while entirely evacuating the chamber and eliminating unnecessary stresses on the projectiles. Further as discussed above the ball joint can be a portion of the tail end portion of the peripheral projectile that is not enclosed by the alignment casing. Such an arrangement can in some configurations help prevent premature combustion or other disturbance of any combustible material inside or comprising the alignment casing during actuation of the ball joint.

In addition to the embodiments described above further embodiments will become apparent by reference to the drawings and by study of the following detailed description.

It is to be understood that the attached drawings are for purposes of illustrating the concepts of the invention and may not be to scale.

The invention is inclusive of combinations of the embodiments described herein. References to a particular embodiment do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment or embodiments and particular embodiments are not mutually exclusive unless so indicated or as are readily apparent to one of skill in the art. The use of singular or plural in referring to an embodiment or embodiments and the like is not limiting. Further it should be noted that unless otherwise explicitly noted or required by context the word or is used in this disclosure in a non exclusive sense.

An embodiment of the projectile cartridge is shown in detail in . The projectile cartridge includes an alignment casing enclosing a portion of each of a plurality of projectiles . The plurality of projectiles includes a center projectile surrounded by a plurality of peripheral projectiles . The center projectile can include a cap to facilitate stacking of cartridges in a magazine.

Each of the plurality of projectiles includes a body portion connected to a tail end portion such that the two portions initially share a common longitudinal axis and the plurality of projectiles are parallel to each other. Because the tail end portion is connected to the body portion structural components of the tail end portion that survive tiring of the cartridge are removed from the chamber when the body portion is launched upon such firing.

The alignment casing encloses a portion of the tail end portions of each of the plurality of projectiles . The body portions can each include a penetrating nose portion . In this embodiment the tail end portions span the length of the alignment casing to provide additional structural support to the alignment casing . The tail end portions can feature flanges and at either end of the alignment casing to provide additional support area. The tail end portion can assume a columnar shape as shown in where the tail end portion has a smaller cross sectional area than a cross sectional area of the body portion possibly excluding the tip of the penetrating nose portion . The cross sectional areas are perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the respective body portion and tail end portion respectively. Such a columnar shape of the tail end portion can be preferable because such a configuration reduces the volume occupied by the support structure as compared to other configurations while retaining sufficient strength to support the alignment casing . However other shapes can be used. In this regard although round cross sectional columnar shapes are shown for tail end portions rectangular or other shaped cross sectional areas can be used. The structural support provided by the tail end portions takes some of the structural support requirements away from the alignment casing . Therefore the alignment casing can have a thin all for example if so desired due to the tail end portions .

The body portions in some embodiments include explosive material within them. The explosive material can detonate after impact of the corresponding body portion with an object subsequent to launch and flight of the corresponding projectile.

The tail end portion of the center projectile is at least partially hollow and includes openings to the hollow area that distribute energy from combustion of an ignition charge. In this case the energy can come from combustion of an ignition charge that is present in the base of the tail end portion of the center projectile . The distributed energy can be used to combust a first combustible material or charge in the internal region of the alignment casing as well as the alignment casing itself when it is composed of a second combustible material thereby causing firing of all of the projectiles .

The tail end portions of the peripheral projectiles can be solid as compared to the at least partially hollow tail end portion of the center projectile . Also each of the tail end portions of the peripheral projectiles can include a ball joint upon which the corresponding body portion can move e.g. rotate or translate causing an angle as shown in between the body portion and the corresponding tail end portion . shows an arrangement where no action has occurred to cause the body portions and tail end portions to deviate from their initial state of sharing a common longitudinal axis. In the state shown in the body portions of the peripheral projectiles are centered or substantially centered on the corresponding ball joints .

Each of the tail end portions of the peripheral projectiles can also include a space shown in in the body portion adjacent to the ball joint . When the angle between the body portion and the tail end portion is caused the ball joint becomes located by translation in the space as shown in . Consequently as the ball joint translates into the space the body portion becomes off centered with respect to the ball joint . This feature reduces rotation resistance and allows an initial bolt circle of the peripheral projectiles i.e. a circle with a circumference that passes through the central longitudinal axis of each of the peripheral projectiles in an initial parallel non splayed orientation to be smaller than the bolt circle of the peripheral barrel opening i.e. a circle with a circumference that passes through the central longitudinal axis of each of the peripheral barrels resulting in a thicker webbing between barrel openings. This webbing or dividing region continues to enlarge as the barrels further diverge. Accordingly such space in conjunction with the ball joint allows the peripheral projectiles to fit into respective diverging barrels so that such projectiles can be ejected therefrom in a diverging manner.

The alignment casing contains features that determine the initial spacing location and alignment of the plurality of projectiles. An example of such a feature is holes machined in the tail end most surface e.g. the surface furthest from the body portion of the alignment casing for insertion of correspondingly shaped boss features of the tail end portions of the projectiles e.g. peripheral projectiles . These holes and corresponding boss features serve to provide spacing and location for a tail end portion . Another example is holes machined into the leading surface e.g. the surface closest to the body portion of the alignment casing for insertion of a correspondingly shaped portion e.g. leading column head portion of the tail end portions of the projectiles e.g. peripheral projectiles . These corresponding holes and portions of the tail end portions provide spacing location and alignment of the inserted tail end portions .

The alignment casing includes an interior region in which a first combustible material or charge can be inserted. The alignment casing can itself be made of a second combustible material that completely combusts in a manner that leaves no structural components of the alignment casing in the chamber upon combustion of the second combustible material in conjunction with combustion of the first combustible material.

Any ball joint can be a portion of the corresponding tail end portion of a projectile that is not enclosed by the alignment casing . Such an arrangement can in some configurations help prevent premature combustion or other disturbance of any combustible material inside or comprising the alignment casing during actuation of the ball joint .

The alignment casing respectively aligns the plurality of projectiles with the barrels of the barrel system when the plurality of projectiles is inserted into the barrels of the barrel system . This alignment is accomplished by both the exterior shape of the alignment casing which could be hexagonal and the aforementioned interior features of the alignment casing that determine the initial spacing location and alignment of the plurality of projectiles . Unlike the conventional drilling gun in that has curved peripheral barrels in order to cause parallel aligned projectiles to diverge the ball joint and the space according to various embodiments of the present invention allow the projectiles to be aligned with linear diverging barrels. Accordingly the projectiles transition from a straight configuration in the cartridge to a splayed configuration in the chamber . Achieving projectile splay during chambering is more desirable than forcing the projectiles to negotiate a high G load turn during launch as occurs in the curved barrel configuration of the conventional drilling gun .

In embodiments where the ignition charge is located in the tail end portion of the center projectile the interior region includes a first combustible material or charge and the alignment casing is formed of a second combustible material combustion of the ignition charge distributes energy through openings causing combustion of both the first combustible material in the internal region and the alignment casing itself. This combustion process ejects the projectiles through the diverging barrels and consequently from the barrel system in a diverging manner. Since the alignment casing itself combusts and the tail end portions remain attached to the ejected body portions the chamber is completely evacuated of all structural components and combustion residue even at relatively low pressures. Consequently a new cartridge can be directly loaded into the chamber without having to clean such chamber.

In this embodiment the barrels and the chamber can be made of heat treated 4340 steel known in the art. Inside the projectile cartridge the body portion of the projectiles can be made of heat treated C300 maraging steel and contain PAX 11 as the explosive material known in the art. The first combustible material can be Reloder 7 smokeless small rifle powder and the second combustible material comprising the alignment casing can be a nitrocellulose impregnated fiber. The components of the tail end portions of the projectiles can be 7075 T6 aluminum known in the art and the ignition charge can be a PA520 electric primer known in the art. The optional cap can be polycarbonate or nylon known in the art.

It is to be understood that the exemplary embodiments are merely illustrative of the present invention and that many variations of the above described embodiments can be devised by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention.

For example because a ball joint is used in some embodiments a variable degree of angling can be caused between the body portion and the tail end portion of a projectile. Consequently it can be seen that although illustrates an embodiment where the barrels diverge at an angle of three degrees other angles can be used. Further not all angles between projectiles need be the same. Some projectiles can diverge at one angle others can diverge at another angle and so on.

For another example the figures herein illustrate a center projectile surrounded by six peripheral projectiles . However the invention is not limited to this particular arrangement of projectiles. For instance the projectile cartridge could house two projectiles one that fires straight ahead and has a tail end portion like center projectile in and a second projectile that has a tail end portion like one of the peripheral projectiles in and fires in a diverging manner. Or the projectile cartridge can house a plurality of projectiles some of which have a tail end portion like that of the center projectile in some of which have a tail end portion like that of a peripheral projectile in and some of which have some other sort of tail end portion. Accordingly it can be seen that a projectile cartridge can be produced that fires projectiles in any number of directional configurations.

For yet another example although the figures show only one projectile the center projectile having a tail end portion with openings and an ignition charge the projectile cartridge can have multiple projectiles having this tail end portion configuration. Further a tail end portion having the configuration of center projectile need not have an ignition charge therein. In these instances an ignition charge may be located elsewhere and pass along at least some of the energy caused by its combustion into the hollow region and through the openings of such tail end portion . Also although the figures show that the projectile having a hollow tail end portion with openings and ignition charge without a ball joint and space such a tail end portion can be included with a ball joint and space to allow angling of the corresponding body portion . In other words the components of the tail end portion of one of the projectiles and the components of the tail end portion of the projectile can be combined to allow both angling and ignition in a single projectile.

For still yet another example although the figures show that the alignment casing encloses a portion of the tail end portion of the projectiles the alignment casing can enclose more or less of such projectiles . For instance in embodiments where the ball joint is not used in the projectiles the alignment casing can enclose part of or all of the body portions in addition to the tail end portions .

For still yet another example although the penetrating nose portions are shown to be pointed herein other shapes can be used. Similarly the invention also is not limited to the particular shape or makeup of the body portions .

Further it is described herein that energetic materials can be used for the ignition charge the alignment casing and within the body portion . The invention is not limited to the particular energetic materials used for these portions of the projectile cartridge and the energetic materials can be the same or different amongst them.

Still further the figures show a particular arrangement and shape of openings through which combustion energy is distributed. However other arrangements and shapes of such openings can be used.

It is therefore intended that all such variations be included within the scope of the following claims and their equivalents.

