---

title: Mobile telephony presence
abstract: Systems and methods for reporting of presence information associated with use of a mobile telephone are presented. In one example, a headset that is paired with a cellular mobile phone relays presence information to a presence application running on a computer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08335525&OS=08335525&RS=08335525
owner: Plantronics, Inc.
number: 08335525
owner_city: Santa Cruz
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120124
---
This is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 136 335 filed Jun. 10 2008 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The convergence of computers voice communications and the Internet has revolutionized the manner and speed by which people are able to communicate. People today have the capacity to communicate instantly using a variety of communication devices and methods. However as the number of methods by which a person can communicate has increased so has the possibility that a person may be communicating using one method when someone attempts to contact him or her with an alternate method. In such a situation the person may be unavailable to receive communications. Generally the terms presence or presence awareness refer to the concept of providing others with information about a user s ability or willingness to communicate. Currently presence information is gathered and reported in network communication systems by unified communications UC applications or services.

Referring to a prior art UC system is illustrated. For example the UC system may be a commercially available UC service such as Lotus Sametime a product of the IBM corporation or one available from Microsoft Cisco Avaya or other UC vendor.

The prior art system includes a number of client computers interconnected through a computer network . The client computers typically are personal computers equipped with a UC Application . For example the UC Application may be Lotus Sometime or similar application. Each client computer may connect with computer network through one of a number of techniques including cable modems digital subscriber lines DSL and using wired or wireless interfaces. Also connected to computer network is a UC presence server . For example UC presence server may be a Lotus Sametime server. The UC presence server is used to keep track of the activities of users at client computers by communicating with the UC Application installed on each client computer . The UC presence server also is connected to the public switched telephone network and a private branch exchange PBX to monitor the activities of users at a telephone such as whether a user at telephone or telephone is on a call received over PSTN . For example the UC presence server monitors whether the user at telephone is on a call received from telephone or mobile phone via PSTN . The UC presence server may receive the call status of telephone from PBX . Alternatively a call may be routed to telephone through UC presence server which monitors this activity.

In the prior art system shown in the UC presence server knows whether a user is on a call at telephone if the call was routed through the PSTN or PBX . However in many situations a caller attempts to call someone using a cellular network. In this scenario when a call is received at a cellular mobile phone over a cellular network rather than the PSTN or PBX the UC presence server is unaware that the user has received and accepted a call on the user cellular mobile phone. As a result there is a need to obtain presence information associated with user cellular mobile telephony usage.

In the prior art the concept of using presence in communication systems is often applied in instant messaging IM systems. IM is an increasingly popular form of electronic communication that allows users of networked computers to communicate in real time. In a typical IM system an IM application is installed on the computer of each user. Users of the same IM service are distinguished from one another by user identifications IDs . Contact lists i.e. buddy lists are also provided to allow users to save the user IDs of the people they most frequently communicate with.

An IM user initiates an IM session by selecting a user ID from his or her contact list and typing a message to the selected contact through a keyboard attached to the IM initiator s computer. The IM application transmits the IM to the IM application executing on the contacted user s i.e. buddy s computer. The IM application then displays the IM on the display terminal of the contacted user s computer. The contacted user may then either ignore the IM or respond to the IM by typing a message back to the IM initiator.

Most IM applications also provide information indicating whether a buddy in the user s contact list is available or unavailable to engage in an IM session. This presence information is provided to IM users in the form of presence status indicators or icons which are typically shown next to the buddy s user ID in a user s contact list. Typical presence status indicators include online offline busy e.g. on the phone or away from the computer e.g. in a meeting . These presence status indicators are useful since unlike traditional e mail systems an IM user need only check the presence status of the user to determine whether the other user is available for real time messaging.

Many IM applications require an IM user to manually select from among a plurality of available presence status indicators in order to inform other IM users of their presence status. Other IM applications such as the Microsoft UC client application provide a limited capability of determining the presence status of a user automatically by tracking whether the user has interacted with his or her computer s keyboard or mouse during a predetermined time span e.g. 15 minutes . This process allows the online offline and present away status to be determined without the user having to manually set his or her presence status preference. However because the user may be present at the computer for an extended period of time without actually interacting with the computer s keyboard or mouse monitoring and updating the presence status of the user using this approach is not very reliable.

Another shortcoming of prior art presence aware IM systems and other presence aware real time communication systems e.g. voice over Internet protocol VoIP is that they do not determine the proximity of a user relative to the user s computer other than for times when perhaps the user is interacting with the computer s keyboard or mouse. Finally prior art presence aware IM systems and other real time communication systems do not provide a reliable means for determining that a user has shifted presence to another mode of communicating e.g. from a personal computer PC to use of a mobile device or for conveying to other system users that the user may have shifted presence to another mode of communicating.

It would be desirable to have real time communication methods and apparatuses for determining that a user being contacted has shifted presence to another mode of communicating and systems and methods for alerting other users of the user s shift to another mode of communicating. For example it would be desirable to know whether a user being contacted has shifted presence to communicating on his cellular mobile phone. Consequently it is not unusual for an IM user to initiate an IM session only to find out that the user being contacted is actually not really present or available to communicate at that moment in time.

As a result there is a need for improved methods and apparatuses for gathering and delivering presence information.

Methods and apparatuses for reporting user presence associated with mobile telephony use are disclosed. The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention. Descriptions of specific embodiments and applications are provided only as examples and various modifications will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. The general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is to be accorded the widest scope encompassing numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein. For purpose of clarity details relating to technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

This invention relates to reporting of presence information associated with use of a mobile telephone. In one example a headset that is paired with a cellular mobile phone relays presence information to a presence application running on a client PC. The presence application may relay the presence information to a UC application also running on the client PC which in turn sends the presence information to a UC server. The presence information includes whether the user is on a call with the cellular mobile phone. The presence information can then be used by either other UC clients users or other applications to derive information regarding the user or determine whether or not the user can be contacted communicated with. The manner in which the headset informs the presence application on the client PC that a mobile phone call is active and the manner in which the user s presence on the UC application can be accomplished in a variety of ways.

In one example a headset that is paired with a cellular mobile phone relays presence information to a presence application running on a client PC. The presence application may relay the presence information to a UC application also running on the client PC which in turn sends the presence information to a UC server. The presence information includes whether the user is on a call with the cellular mobile phone. The presence information can then be used by either other UC clients users or other applications to derive information regarding the user or determine whether or not the user can be contacted communicated with. The manner in which the headset informs the presence application on the client PC that a mobile phone call is active and the manner in which the user s presence on the UC application can be accomplished in a variety of ways in further examples.

In one example a method for reporting user mobile phone activity includes establishing a Bluetooth audio SCO link between a mobile phone and a headset and transmitting from the headset to a client device over a Bluetooth ACL link an AT command message indicating the user has established the Bluetooth audio SCO link. The method further includes translating the AT command message to an associated presence state and reporting the associated presence state to a presence server.

In one example a system for reporting user mobile phone activity includes a Bluetooth headset and a cellular network mobile telephone paired with the Bluetooth headset. The cellular network mobile telephone is operable to establish a Bluetooth audio SCO link with the Bluetooth headset. The system further includes a client computer paired with the Bluetooth headset and in communication with a presence server. The client computer is operable to receive over a Bluetooth ACL link an AT command message indicating the Bluetooth audio SCO link has been established translate the AT command message to an associated presence state and send the associated presence state to the presence server.

In one example a computer readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform a method for reporting user mobile phone activity includes establishing a communication channel with a headset and receiving over the communication channel a status message that the headset has opened or terminated an audio communication channel with a mobile phone. For example the communication channel may be a Bluetooth Asynchronous Connection Less ACL link the audio communication channel may be a Bluetooth Synchronous Connection Oriented SCO link and the status message may be an AT command message. The method performed further includes translating the status message to an associated presence state and sending the associated presence state to a presence server. In one example the associated presence state is on a call busy or unavailable if the status message indicates the headset has opened an audio communication channel with a mobile phone. The associated presence state is available if the status message indicates the headset has terminated an audio communication channel with a mobile phone.

In one example a system for reporting user PBX telephone activity includes a Bluetooth headset and a PBX telephone paired with the Bluetooth headset. The PBX telephone is operable to establish a Bluetooth audio SCO link with the Bluetooth headset. A client computer is paired with the Bluetooth headset and in communication with a presence server. The client computer is operable to receive over a Bluetooth ACL link an AT command message indicating the Bluetooth audio SCO link has been established translate the AT command message to an associated presence state and send the associated presence state to the presence server.

Client PC transmits and receives presence information to and from a unified communications UC presence server in a client server relationship. In the example shown in data is transmitted between client PC and UC presence server via Internet .

Referring to a simplified block diagram of client PC in one example is illustrated. Client PC includes a presence application interfacing with a client side UC application having exposed client side interfaces. illustrates one example configuration for reporting presence information from the presence application to the unified communications presence server via the UC application . UC application accepts presence state changes from presence application and reports the presence state to UC presence server . In further example presence application and client side UC application may be integrated into a single presence application. Client side UC application transmits and receives presence data to and from UC presence server providing an interface to alter the presence state of the user as described herein. In addition the UC application may also provide interface s for remote call control.

Client side UC application may for example be a commercial presence UC application such as IBM Lotus Sametime 8.0 Microsoft Office Communicator running in conjunction with Office Communications Services 2007 or other similar UC application. UC presence server may for example be an IBM Lotus Sametime Server where the client side UC application is also IBM Lotus Sametime. Presence application operates to output the user presence state as discussed below in reference to .

Referring to a simplified block diagram of client PC in a further example is illustrated. illustrates a further example configuration for reporting presence information from a presence application to a unified communications presence server . In the example shown in client PC includes a presence application and a UC application . In this example UC application does not expose client side interfaces and presence application cannot alter the user s presence state. The UC application will only accept presence state changes from the UC presence server . Presence application interfaces with a server side presence application running on a presence server which in turn communicates with a UC server side application running on UC presence server . The presence application reports presence information such as the user presence state to presence server which in turn reports the presence information to UC presence server .

In this example BT headset is wirelessly connected to a USB Bluetooth module via a Bluetooth link. The devices in communicate using the Bluetooth Headset Profile in multipoint mode. USB Bluetooth module includes a Bluetooth audio gateway in communication with a USB interface . USB interface is inserted into a USB interface of client PC . Client PC executes presence application . The presence application operates to handle communication with the USB Bluetooth module through an application programming interface API with the associated UC application also being executed on computer client PC . UC application may for example be provided by a UC service provider as previously described and operable to handle communications with a UC presence server.

The Bluetooth audio gateway and BT headset provide serial port emulation. The serial port emulation is used to transport user data including AT commands from the BT headset to the Bluetooth audio gateway . The AT commands are parsed by the Bluetooth audio gateway . Bluetooth audio gateway receives AT command messages received at USB Bluetooth module . These AT command messages are vendor specific commands as described herein and are translated to corresponding presence information.

For clarity other applications which may be executed on client PC are not shown. For example client PC may execute a VoIP Softphone application operable to handle bi directional IP based telephony between the client PC and an IP network.

BT headset is also wirelessly connected to a mobile phone via a Bluetooth link. When paired and in range BT headset maintains an ACL link with both USB BT module and mobile phone . Mobile phone includes a BT audio gateway . Bluetooth audio gateway is the gateway for both input audio and output audio. The BT headset acts as remote audio input and output mechanism for the Bluetooth audio gateway . The profile stack for the Headset Profile illustrating the protocols and entities regarding how a headset and audio gateway interact to effect a wireless connection between the devices is known in the art.

In one operation the mobile phone establishes an active Bluetooth audio SCO link with the BT headset . The client PC is paired with the BT headset and in communication with a presence server. The client PC receives over a Bluetooth ACL link an AT command message indicating the Bluetooth audio SCO link has been established. The presence application at client PC translates the AT command message to an associated presence state and send the associated presence state to the UC application which in turn may modify the user presence state at the presence server.

In one example USB BT module is a dongle attached to a USB port of client PC that allows software applications to be used. In this example the USB BT module runs a Bluetooth stack optimized for audio performance. USB BT module is any base unit including dongles operating vendor specific firmware connected to client PC . The base unit may have the capability to dock a headset for recharging of the headset battery.

At step the mobile phone initiates connection establishment with BT headset to form an ACL link. At step the BT headset initiates connection establishment with the client PC to form an ACL link.

When an incoming call is received the mobile phone sends the BT headset notification of the incoming call. The BT headset sends an AT command to mobile phone accepting the incoming call. Alternatively if the user initiates an outgoing call the BT headset sends an AT command to mobile phone initiating an outgoing call. At step the mobile phone issues an open audio SCO link command to the BT headset responsive to receipt and acceptance of an incoming call to the mobile phone or initiation of an outgoing call by the user.

Where an incoming call is received the mobile phone performs an inquiry and paging process to locate the headset and notify the headset a call has been received. Any open audio SCO link or other communication channel between the BT headset and client PC is terminated prior to establishment of the SCO audio channel between the mobile phone and the BT headset . For example at the time a call is initiated or received the BT headset may be receiving an audio stream corresponding to music from a base unit or dongle at the client PC over an A2DP channel at the time the incoming mobile phone call is received. Alternately the headset may be in an idle mode or on a telephone call with the base unit at the time the incoming mobile phone call is received. Any of these particular presence states and shifting between presence states may be reported to the UC presence server.

At step the BT headset sends an AT command message to client PC using the ACL link indicating than an audio SCO link has been opened between the mobile phone and BT headset . The AT command message content may be vendor specific and may indicate that an audio SCO link is open or simply that the user is busy or unavailable. For example the presence state is reported as on a mobile phone call . In further examples the presence state may be reported on a more generic level such as on a call or equivalent language or even more simply as unavailable or busy .

The AT command message is translated to a presence state by the presence application running on client PC . Alternatively the USB BT module may translate the AT command message to a presence state and send the presence state to the presence application. At step the presence state translated from the AT command message is sent from the client PC to a UC presence server . For example where the SCO link has been opened the reported presence state may be on a mobile phone call on a call busy or other similar state indicating the user is unavailable. The path with which the UC presence server receives the presence state may vary depending on the particular system architecture as described above in reference to . At step ongoing audio communication over the open SCO link occurs between mobile phone and BT headset once the audio SCO link is opened at step .

At step mobile phone sends a terminate audio SCO link command to BT headset over the ACL link responsive to a user action to terminate an ongoing call. At step the BT headset sends an AT command message to client PC over the ACL link indicating that the audio SCO link has been terminated between mobile phone and BT headset . This AT command message is translated to a presence state by the presence application at client PC . Alternatively the USB BT module may translate the AT command message to a presence state and send the presence state to the presence application. At step the presence state translated from the AT command message is sent from the client PC to the UC presence server . The presence state reported may be varied depending on the particular presence system implementation. In one example once the ongoing call with the mobile phone is terminated the user presence state is reported as available 

At block notification at the headset of the incoming call is received. At the time the headset receives notification of the incoming call the headset may either be in an idle state or in use with the base unit. For example the headset may be receiving an audio stream corresponding to music from the base unit over an A2DP channel at the time the incoming mobile phone call is received. Alternately the headset may be on a telephone call with the base unit at the time the incoming mobile phone call is received. Any of these particular presence states and shifting between presence states may be reported to the UC presence server. Additional presence information may also be reported to the UC presence server. Methods and systems for headset derived presence are discussed in co pending and commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 697 087 for Headset Derived Real Time Presence and Communication Systems and Methods filed on Apr. 5 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference in it s entirety for all purposes.

Where an incoming call is received the BT headset may output an earcon to the user to notify the user of the incoming call. The user may press a talk button on the BT headset or on the mobile phone to accept the incoming call. At block a user action at the headset to accept the incoming call is received. At block a call activation message is sent from the headset to a base unit that the incoming call has been accepted. In a further example the headset also sends to the base unit caller id information associated with the incoming mobile phone call such as the incoming caller name and phone number. Where an outgoing call is made the destination phone number may be sent from the headset to the base unit. In a further example the headset may also send to the base unit the duration of the incoming or outgoing call. Caller ID and call information may be processed by the base a client PC and or UC presence server.

At block the call activation message is translated at the base unit or client PC to an associated presence state. At block the presence state is sent to a presence server. The specific presence state reported may be varied depending on the particular presence system implementation. In one example the presence state is reported as on a mobile phone call . In further examples the presence state may be reported on a more generic level such as on a call or equivalent language or even more simply as unavailable or busy .

At block a user action to terminate an ongoing call is received. For example the user may push the headset talk button or press the end button on the mobile phone. At block a call termination message is sent from the headset to the base unit that an ongoing call has been terminated. At block the call termination message is translated to an associated presence state. At block the updated presence state is sent to the presence server. The presence state reported at block may be varied depending on the particular presence system implementation. In one example once the ongoing call with the mobile phone is terminated the user presence state is reported as available .

At block the call activation message is translated at the base unit or client PC to an associated presence state. At block the presence state is sent to a presence server. The specific presence state reported may be varied depending on the particular presence system implementation. In one example the presence state is reported as on a mobile phone call . In further examples the presence state may be reported on a more generic level such as on a call or equivalent language or even more simply as unavailable or busy . Termination of the ongoing call occurs in the manner discussed above in reference to .

Client PC executing a presence application and a UC application transmits and receives presence information to and from a unified communications UC presence server in a client server relationship. In the example shown in data is transmitted between client PC and UC presence server via Internet .

The PBX telephone base is operable to establish a Bluetooth audio SCO link with the Bluetooth headset . For example the Bluetooth audio SCO link may be established responsive to a user accepting an incoming phone call to the PBX telephone or responsive to a user initiating an outgoing call from the PBX telephone .

The client PC is operable to receive over a Bluetooth ACL link an AT command message indicating the Bluetooth audio SCO link has been established translate the AT command message to an associated presence state and send the associated presence state to the UC presence server . This process is similar to that described above in reference to . For example the associated presence state may be on a PBX call on a call busy or other state indicating that the user is unavailable.

Utilizing the system illustrated in a user s telephony presence state on a PBX telephone can be reported to a UC presence server where an enterprise does not have a PBX infrastructure that is capable of integrating with an underlying UC application to alter a user s telephony presence.

Where an incoming call is received the BT headset may output an earcon to the user to notify the user of the incoming call. The user may press a talk button on the BT headset to accept the incoming call. At block a user action at the headset to accept the incoming call is received. At block a call activation message is sent from the headset to a client PC base that the incoming call has been accepted. In a further example the headset also sends to the client PC base caller id information associated with the incoming enterprise PBX phone base call such as the incoming caller name and phone number. Where an outgoing call is made the destination phone number may be sent from the headset to the client PC base. In a further example the headset may also send to the client PC base the duration of the incoming or outgoing call. Caller ID and call information may be processed by the client PC and or UC presence server.

At block the call activation message is translated at the client PC base or client PC to an associated presence state. AT block the presence state is sent to a presence server. The specific presence state reported may be varied depending on the particular presence system implementation. In one example the presence state is reported as on a PBX phone call . In further examples the presence state may be reported on a more generic level such as on a call or equivalent language or even more simply as unavailable or busy .

At block a user action to terminate an ongoing call is received. For example the user may push the headset talk button or press the end button on the enterprise PBX phone base. At block a call termination message is sent from the headset to the client PC base that an ongoing call has been terminated. At block the call termination message is translated to an associated presence state. At block the updated presence state is sent to the presence server. The presence state reported at block may be varied depending on the particular presence system implementation. In one example once the ongoing call with the enterprise PBX phone base is terminated the user presence state is reported as available .

Bluetooth module includes a transceiver having a transmitter and a receiver . In the present example Bluetooth module receives and transmits a wireless signal utilizing the Bluetooth protocol Headset Profile. In further example other Bluetooth profiles may be used. The wireless signal transmitted by transmitter includes Headset Profile digital command messages received from controller . Inbound data or audio is received by receiver and sent to controller . Audio encoder decoder is used for processing a digital audio signal and an analog audio signal as known in the art. Memory is used to store digital data and can take a variety of well known forms such as flash memory.

Controller is operable to receive user input commands from user interface and convert these commands to digital command messages . In one example controller is part of a Bluetooth chip set. These digital command messages are sent to Bluetooth module for wireless transmission using Bluetooth module . Controller also receives inbound audio or audio files for output by speaker following decoding by audio encoder decoder . In the present example user interface allows a user to accept incoming calls or initiate outgoing calls. User interface can be any combinations of visual interfaces tactile interfaces and or an audio interface that allow the user to input commands.

User s computers and or have systems such as software programs which respond to and interact with systems and . Presence system interacts with digital instant messages from caller and monitors one or more conditions related to wireless headset for example by monitoring headset sensor or other devices such as RFID GPS proximity detector and or base station or docking station or other devices as convenient. Information or data from headset sensor may be provided via wireless link to presence system via a computer such as in which presence system may be implemented as an application. System may also run on a server not shown.

In one example the wireless headset is implemented as BT headset shown and described above in reference to . Similarly in this example computers and or are implemented as client PC and wireless headset base station is implemented as USB BT module or equivalent base station. Headset is in wireless communication with cell phone using a Bluetooth link and cell phone is in communication with cellular network . Wireless headset reports presence information related to whether user is on a call using cell phone over cellular network . Wireless headset reports the presence information over wireless link to wireless headset base station which then relays the presence information to Presence System .

As described below in greater detail presence system may estimate from a monitored condition a potential for user to receive and immediately respond to a digital instant communication from caller which may be directed to anyone of several devices accessible to user for example in his normal workspace such as user s office cell including computer s cell phone and desk phone . Some of these devices such as notebook computer and or cell phone may also be accessible to user outside of user s office as shown in .

The monitored condition may be whether the user is on a call with the cellular phone using cellular network . The monitored condition may be useful in determining the estimated potential described below. For example presence system may estimate from the monitored condition associated with cell phone usage over cellular network a potential for user to receive and immediately respond to a digital instant message from caller transmitted by text or speech based digital instant communication systems and .

The monitored condition may indicate a current condition or a recent action of user which may have been to don the headset by putting it on doff the headset by taking it off dock the headset by applying it to docking or charging station move while wearing the headset e.g. out of office and or carry the headset. The difference between a current condition or a recent action may be useful in determining the estimated potential described below. The monitored condition may indicate a likely current relationship such as proximity between user and headset which may be detected by headset sensor which may detect a characteristic of user such as body temperature.

The monitored condition may also be related to proximity between the headset and a communicating device associated with user at that time for receiving and transmitting digital instant communications such as notebook computer and or cell phone which may be with or near user for example when out of the office as shown in . Proximity may be detected by headset sensor or by comparison of various location based systems as discussed in more detail below or any other proximity detection scheme illustrated by proximity detector which may for example monitor communications between wireless headset and cell phone to detect proximity there between.

The monitored condition may be related to proximity of the headset to one or more locations. For example headset sensor may include a GPS receiver and another GPS or other location based information system such as GPS system may be used to determine that user is in or near a specific location such as a hallway office conference room or bathroom. Other systems which use the strength timing or coding of received signals transmitted between headset and known locations can also be used. Similarly RFID system in which an interrogatable tag is located at a known location or on headset may also be used.

Presence system may estimate from the monitored condition a potential for user to receive and immediately respond to a digital instant message from caller transmitted by text or speech based digital instant communication systems and . These estimates may be based on rule based information applied to the monitored condition e.g. various levels for the potential for user may be determined by rules applied to one or monitored headset conditions. That is the potential may be different for the same location depending on whether the user has donned doffed or docked the headset or is moving while wearing or carrying the phone and or whether the user had done so recently. As one example user may have a low potential for receiving and immediately responding to a digital instant message even if carrying headset while in a supervisor s office or even when headset is donned while in an elevator while having a high potential while proximate docking station even when headset is docked.

The potential may include an estimate of the user s presence availability and or willingness to receive and immediately respond to a digital instant message from caller based on the identification of the caller or an estimate that the user may or may not be willing to do so while in his supervisor s office or in a boardroom. The estimate may be made in response to receipt of a text or speech based digital instant communication by cell phone desktop computer notebook computer desk phone or any other equipment associated with the user such as an office computer server or similar equipment. The estimate may also be made before the communication is received for example on a continuous or periodic basis.

In operation for example if user is out of office but proximate cell phone or notebook computer an incoming digital instant communication received from networks may be automatically directed to user via wireless headset if the estimated potential for user to receive and immediately respond to the incoming communication indicates that the user is likely to immediately respond to the communication.

As one specific example caller may send an instant message IM to user received by desktop computer asking R U THERE which may be automatically directed to wireless headset in accordance with the estimated potential even if the user is out of office and without cell phone or notebook computer . Presence system or another appropriate system may provide an audible message to the user from text associated with the incoming digital instant communication for example by converting the text based message to an audible speech message Are you there which may be provided to user via wireless headset if the estimated potential is that user is likely to immediately respond.

User may respond by speaking a command phrase such as Not now which may be provided as an outgoing message such as a reply IM to caller which may be Not now but I ll call you as soon as I m available . Similarly user may speak the command 3 pm which may then be included in the reply IM as Call me back at 3 p.m. 

Alternately if when the R U THERE IM is received by communications equipment associated with user when the estimated potential is that user is likely to immediately respond but the headset condition indicates that user is not currently wearing the headset while remaining proximate headset a signal may be provided to the headset such as a tone or prerecorded message or flashing light or other signal indicating current receipt of an incoming digital instant message. The signal may be perceptible to user even if user is not wearing headset . The estimated potential may include the information that user is not wearing headset but is proximate thereto.

If user decides to respond to the incoming digital instant communication by immediately engaging caller in a conversation user may respond to the R U THERE IM by speaking or otherwise issuing a command such as Pick Up which causes a bidirectional voice communication channel such as a VoIP channel or a standard telephone call via desk phone to be opened between caller and user via wireless headset .

While the exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described and illustrated herein it will be appreciated that they are merely illustrative and that modifications can be made to these embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the scope of the invention is intended to be defined only in terms of the following claims as may be amended with each claim being expressly incorporated into this Description of Specific Embodiments as an embodiment of the invention.

