---

title: Determining authenticity of reported fitness-related activities
abstract: An activity tracking system is configured to receive an activity report identifying a fitness-related action that is reported to have been completed by a participant. Upon receipt of the activity report, the activity reporting system verifies the workout, e.g., by obtaining data that can be used by the activity reporting system to determine whether the activity report represents actual activity as reported by the participant or, in the alternative, suspect activity. Based on the data obtained from the one or more data sources and the information in the activity report, the activity tracking system determines a probability that the activity report represents legitimate fitness activity. This probability determination may then be output or reported to other systems (e.g., fitness history databases, websites, and the like, third party systems (e.g., incentive systems, reward systems, and the like).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08983637&OS=08983637&RS=08983637
owner: MapMyFitness, Inc.
number: 08983637
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120730
---
This disclosure relates generally to fitness based activity tracking systems and in particular to methods and systems to determine the likelihood that a fitness related or other reported activity was actually completed by a participant.

Runners cyclists walkers and other fitness enthusiasts today have access to numerous social wellness oriented websites and associated mobile and tablet applications that permit them to track and store in an online database their daily running cycling walking or hiking routes. These sites may also provide useful community based fitness content searchable databases of events and courses online training tools and fitness calculators. Mobile apps use the built in GPS technology of the iPhone Android Windows and Blackberry mobile devices to enable users to record and chart their daily fitness activities and routes right on their devices. In particular such mobile applications enable the user to record work out details including for example duration distance pace speed elevation calories burned and route traveled on an interactive map. This workout data can then be saved to the website where the user and others can view the data build a comprehensive workout history and the like.

In addition to mobile applications other known devices such as pedometers measure and record physical activity such as a number of steps taken.

While these physical activity recording devices work well for their intended purpose some users may report amounts of activity using such devices that may not be consistent with the user s true level of physical activity. Indeed recently a Company used pedometers to record the activities of employees as part of a Company challenge aimed at motivating employees to become more active in the workplace. Via their pedometer some employees reported extraordinary large amounts of activity that were believed to be inconsistent with actual activity. When confronted the employees admitted to cheating e.g. by attaching the pedometer to a pet putting the device in a cycling machine or fan or other creative but necessarily deceptive actions.

According to this disclosure an activity tracking system is configured to receive an activity report identifying a fitness related action that is reported to have been completed by a participant. Typically the activity report represents a fitness workout. The activity report may be received from a source such as the participant or a device associated with the participant and that may be used to record and report data associated with the activity. Upon receipt of the activity report the activity reporting system can verify the workout by obtaining data from one or more data sources and that can be used by the activity reporting system to determine whether the activity report represents actual activity as reported by the participant or in the alternative suspect activity i.e. falsified activity data in whole or in part . As described herein the process of determining whether a workout represents true fitness activity is sometimes referred to as a verified workout. Based on the data obtained from the one or more data sources and the information in the activity report the activity tracking system determines a probability that the activity report represents legitimate fitness activity. This probability determination may then be output or reported to other systems e.g. fitness history databases websites and the like third party systems e.g. incentive systems reward systems and the like .

The particular data used by the activity tracking system to determine whether reported activity data represents true fitness activity may be quite varied typically the data includes one or more of the following the participant s history e.g. one or more prior activity reports or profile e.g. the participant s height weight gender age or the like as well as any available time series tracks available for the participant any available information about the source e.g. the device that provides the activity report aggregate information about participants or devices that may be or are similar to the report e.g. other participants with a similar profile had similar activity reports including any type of time series tracks available for similar participants or activity reports and other reference data about the activity. Using this data a permitted or authorized user or entity can verify a workout that is associated with or evidenced by the activity report.

The foregoing has outlined some of the more pertinent features of the subject matter. These features should be construed to be merely illustrative.

A participant is an entity typically a person for an activity is being reported. In this context the participant usually is reported to have completed the activity.

An activity is an action that is reported to have been completed by a participant. An activity can be of varied scope such as a type of exercise e.g. biking jogging swimming etc. having a duration a distance a route and or other data related to that activity. Each such data may be considered an attribute of that activity. An activity attribute may also define other related information such as without limitation a food or meal that was reported to have been eaten by the participant in association with the activity a weight or other bio measurement e.g. heart rate BPM glucose level or the like that was reported to the participant at a given time before during or after the activity a period or pattern of sleep associated in some manner with the activity a medicine or other medicament that was reported to have been administered by or to the participant in association in some way with the activity and a course of exercise that was reported to have been completed by the participant. Thus an activity has one or more such activity attributes and their associated values.

A device records measures and or reports activities. A device may be quite varied and include without limitation a pedometer that records the activity e.g. steps taken by the participant a GPS based watch or the like that records the physical location of the participant over time a biometric device such as a weight scale or heart rate monitor that measures biometric information about the participant e.g. as an individual reading a series of individual readings over time or a continuous stream of readings during an activity a piece of clothing or footwear with built in sensors to capture data relating to an activity or a mobile device that may record an activity using on board sensors i.e. GPS accelerometer or that may record them from other sensors nearby e.g. a heart rate monitor that connects to the mobile device over a wireless link . Regardless of type preferably each device may have different characteristics in terms of reporting frequency and capability as well as expected and reported accuracy and these characteristics typically should be considered when assessing the likely authenticity of an activity recorded or measured by the device. A device is one source of a reported activity.

A source is an originator of a report of an activity. The source of the report may be a participant a device or an entity. The entity may be an application or system e.g. machine program process or the like an organization a human entity or a non human entity. As will be seen the source of the activity reported may provide significant value is assessing the likely authenticity of the report. Some non limiting examples of sources of a reported activity thus may include a device e.g. a sleep sensor that reports a sleep pattern for a given time period a participant who might self report that a given food was eaten or a given action taken an observer who might report or validate the activity an application or system that may be a third party machine based entity that may report that an activity was undertaken or completed or some other third party e.g. another human or non human entity that may report that a participant completed an activity. An example of the latter type might be a physical trainer that reports a heart rate measurement that was obtained during a workout session.

A time series track is a sequence of measurements over time. A time series track may be intra activity or inter activity. For example an activity report that describes the heart rate of the participant during the activity may be an intra activity time series or a series of weight measurements when taken over an extended period may be an inter activity time series track.

An activity report is information or data associated with an activity. The activity report may include the identity of the activity the participant one or more devices one or more sources one or more time series tracks attributes and their values and the like.

A verified workout is a fitness routine described by an activity report and that has a probability value indicative that the activity defined in the report actually occurred.

Referring now to the subject matter herein operates in the context of an activity tracking system having an associated set of databases and . Database includes data concerning participants and their history. Each participant may have a profile associated therewith. Database includes data concerning devices and sources. Database includes aggregate data typically about other participants and or devices that use the activity tracking system although preferably the aggregate data does not necessarily disclose particular details about an individual participant. Database includes other activity reference data. One or more of these databases may be integrated and or remote from one another and the activity tracking system. The databases may be third party or partner systems. Devices interact with the activity tracking system over a network. The network depends on the nature of the device and the communication.

The activity tracking system typically comprises machines systems sub systems applications databases interfaces and other computing and telecommunications resources. In one embodiment the activity tracking system is implemented in an Internet accessible platform operated by a service provider. Without limitation the platform of this type comprises an Internet Protocol IP switch a set of one or more web server machines a set of one more application server machines a database management system and a set of one or more administrative or management server machines. A representative web server machine comprises commodity hardware e.g. Intel based an operating system such as Linux and a web server such as Apache 2.x. A representative application server machine comprises commodity hardware Linux and an application server such as Tomcat JBoss WebLogic or the like. The database management system may be implemented as an Oracle or equivalent database management package running on Linux. In a high volume environment there may be several web server machines several application server machines and a number of administrative and management server machines. Although not shown in detail the infrastructure may include a name service FTP servers MRCP Media Resource Control Protocol servers load balancing appliances other switches and the like. Each machine typically comprises sufficient disk and memory as well as input and output devices. The software environment on each machine includes a Java virtual machine JVM if control programs are written in Java. Generally the web servers handle incoming web based requests and responses providing web pages and content via known protocols and technologies. The application servers manage the basic functions of the activity tracking system that are described in more detail below.

One or more functions may be implemented in a cloud based architecture. As is well known cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of the service. Available services models that may be leveraged in whole or in part include Software as a Service SaaS the provider s applications running on cloud infrastructure Platform as a service PaaS the customer deploys applications that may be created using provider tools onto the cloud infrastructure Infrastructure as a Service IaaS customer provisions its own processing storage networks and other computing resources and can deploy and run operating systems and applications .

The activity tracking system platform may comprise co located hardware and software resources or resources that are physically logically virtually and or geographically distinct. Communication networks used to communicate to and from the platform services may be packet based non packet based and secure or non secure or some combination thereof.

The mobile device comprises suitable programming to facilitate gesture based control in a manner that is known in the art.

Generalizing the mobile device is any wireless client device e.g. a cellphone pager pedometer GPS based watch scale monitor a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. with GPRS NIC a mobile computer with a smartphone client or the like. Other mobile devices in which the technique may be practiced include any access protocol enabled device e.g. a Blackberry device an Android based device or the like that is capable of sending and receiving data in a wireless manner using a wireless protocol. Typical wireless protocols are WiFi GSM GPRS CDMA or WiMax. These protocols implement the ISO OSI Physical and Data Link layers Layers 1 2 upon which a traditional networking stack is built complete with IP TCP SSL TLS and HTTP.

In a representative embodiment the mobile device is a cellular telephone that operates over GPRS General Packet Radio Service which is a data technology for GSM networks. In addition to a conventional voice communication a given mobile device can communicate with another such device via many different types of message transfer techniques including SMS short message service enhanced SMS EMS multi media message MMS email WAP paging or other known or later developed wireless data formats. Generalizing a mobile device as used herein is a 3G or next generation compliant device that includes a subscriber identity module SIM which is a smart card that carries subscriber specific information mobile equipment e.g. radio and associated signal processing devices a man machine interface MMI and one or more interfaces to external devices e.g. computers PDAs and the like . The techniques disclosed herein are not limited for use with a mobile device that uses a particular access protocol. The mobile device typically also has support for wireless local area network WLAN technologies such as Wi Fi. WLAN is based on IEEE 802.11 standards.

The mobile device preferably includes a 3 axis accelerometer that measures acceleration. Signals output from the accelerometer indicate the orientation of the device typically relative to fixed platform such as the earth s surface. The mobile device may also include a gyro not shown which measures rate of rotation around a particular axis.

A device as described herein preferably is configured or provisioned with an application e.g. a mobile app that performs one or more interactions with the activity tracking system. Of course the nature and type of application will depend on the device. The application may be integral to the device or otherwise downloaded and installed in the device e.g. as a plug in a software agent a browser agent a web app a proprietary app or the like . The activity tracking system also is configured or provisioned to perform one or more interactions with the databases or other external systems. These interactions may be over application programming interfaces APIs or via standard request response protocols. Communications may be over secure connections. As a result of these interactions a probability that an activity report is authentic i.e. represents real data associated with the activity as opposed to fabricated or other un verifiable data is generated. This enables the system or system provider to verify that a workout has in fact taken place.

At step 1 the device reports an activity to the activity tracking system. The report may come from the device directly or indirectly e.g. via an intermediary a proxy or the like . At step 2 the activity tracking system fetches any available information about the participant s history e.g. one or more prior activity reports or profile e.g. the participant s height weight gender age or the like as well as available type of time series tracks available for the participant. At step 3 the activity tracking system fetches any available information about the device or source. This data may include without limitation device make and model number known accuracy data and the like. At step 4 the activity tracking system fetches any aggregate information about participants or devices that may be or are similar in some way to the report e.g. other participants with a similar profile had similar activity reports including any type of time series tracks available for similar participants or activity reports. At step 5 the activity tracking system fetches other reference data about the activity e.g. the elevation profile of the reported route . Steps 2 5 may be carried out concurrently using known technologies application programming interfaces tools protocols and transport mechanisms. One or more of such steps may be carried out asynchronously with respect to the device activity report or in response to that activity report.

At step 6 the activity tracking system applies a probability matching algorithm to the data and information fetched or some portion thereof to generate a probability score. The probability score represents on the likelihood that the activity was actually completed by the participant. The score may be a numerical metric a text value or some combination thereof. A confidence level may be associated with the value.

At step 7 the activity tracking system publishes a probability report for this activity or participant. The report may be specific to the individual or include the information in an aggregate value for multiple participants . The report may be time specific or include data over a time period. It is output to permitted users systems or entities.

At step 1 the participant reports an activity to the activity tracking system. As described above the report may come from the participant directly or indirectly e.g. via an intermediary a proxy or the like . At step 2 the activity tracking system fetches any available information about the participant s history e.g. one or more prior activity reports or profile e.g. the participant s height weight gender age or the like as well as available type of time series tracks available for the participant. At step 3 the activity tracking system fetches any available information about the device or source. At step 4 the activity tracking system fetches any aggregate information about participants or devices that may be or are similar in some way to the report e.g. other participants with a similar profile had similar activity reports including any type of time series tracks available for similar participants or activity reports. At step 5 the activity tracking system fetches other reference data about the activity e.g. the elevation profile of the reported route . Steps 2 5 may be carried out concurrently using known technologies application programming interfaces tools protocols and transport mechanisms. As noted in the previous example one or more of such steps may be carried out asynchronously with respect to the device activity report or in response to that activity report. At step 6 the activity tracking system applies a probability matching algorithm to the data and information fetched or some portion thereof to generate a probability score. The probability score represents on the likelihood that the activity was actually completed by the participant. At step 7 the activity tracking system publishes a probability report for this activity or participant.

At step 1 a participant uses a device to record an activity. At step 2 the device reports the activity typically into an intermediary system or source. At step 3 the source reports the activity in the activity tracking system. At step 4 the activity tracking system fetches any available information about the participant s history e.g. one or more prior activity reports or profile e.g. the participant s height weight gender age or the like as well as available type of time series tracks available for the participant. At step 5 the activity tracking system fetches any available information about the device or source. At step 6 the activity tracking system fetches any aggregate information about participants or devices that may be or are similar in some way to the report e.g. other participants with a similar profile had similar activity reports including any type of time series tracks available for similar participants or activity reports. At step 7 the activity tracking system fetches other reference data about the activity e.g. the elevation profile of the reported route . Steps 4 7 may be carried out concurrently using known technologies application programming interfaces tools protocols and transport mechanisms. As noted in the previous example one or more of such steps may be carried out asynchronously with respect to the device activity report or in response to that activity report. At step 8 the activity tracking system applies a probability matching algorithm to the data and information fetched or some portion thereof to generate a probability score. The probability score represents on the likelihood that the activity was actually completed by the participant. At step 9 the activity tracking system publishes the probability score to the reward challenge game system. At step 10 the reward challenge game system determines if an award is granted based on the reported activity and the probability score. If so at step 11 the reward challenge game system provisions some benefit to the participant. That system may also aggregate multiple reports over time.

Any scoring algorithm and associated verification metrics may be used to determine whether an activity report can be verified against the data obtained by the activity tracking system. The following example provides a representative probability score calculation. A given number of baseline points e.g. 10 are assigned for the submitted activity. The algorithm then checks to determine how many activities this particular participant has submitted previously. The scoring algorithm might then add say three 3 points if the user has submitted greater than say thirty 30 activities previously but only one 1 point if the user has submitted greater than say then 10 activities previously. The scoring algorithm may subtract one 1 point if this is the first activity submitted by the user. After these weightings are assigned by the scoring algorithm the scoring algorithm may then determine whether any one of the following metrics fit within a standard deviation of a given number e.g. 10 of prior workouts by the user kCals burned duration distance average speed or pace elevation and the like. The scoring algorithm might also be set up to subtract say 0.5 points for each such metric that falls outside one standard deviation of the given number of prior workouts. The scoring algorithm may then check other data and assign points or subtract them appropriately. Thus the algorithm may check to determine whether the participant s maximum or average speed for the activity falls outside one standard deviation for all users in the prior 12 months who fit a similar demographic and body mass index provided doing the particular activity e.g. cycling if so the scoring algorithm subtracts one 1 point. The scoring algorithm may also check whether there is a GPS time series track e.g. latitude longitude accuracy timestamp for this workout if so the algorithm may then add several points. If the average accuracy of points for the GPS time series is under a certain distance another point may be added. If the distance of the activity falls outside one standard deviation for all users in the prior 12 months who fit a similar demographic and body mass index profile doing this activity the scoring algorithm may then subtract another point and so on for other such determinations.

Of course the above described scoring algorithm is merely representative. Any one or more of such scoring criteria may be defined and applied in any manner. The criteria may be applied concurrently or sequentially. One or more mathematical functions may be applied to given scoring criteria. Once the score has been generated in this manner it is compared to one or more predetermined thresholds for the scoring algorithm. In the event the scoring algorithm includes just one threshold e.g. valid or not valid if the generated score exceeds the threshold the probability value is output as valid. In the event the scoring algorithm includes multiple thresholds e.g. valid indeterminate not valid the probability value output will depend on where in the range the final score lies. Of course any number of thresholds may be implemented by the scoring algorithm.

Scoring algorithms may be generated by a service provider or a third party such as a third party contest provider.

Data used by the scoring algorithm is obtained from one or more of the data sources described above. The data may be obtained on the fly at the time the algorithm is executed or in advance. Third party data sources e.g. Internet databases search engines and the like may be examined as well to obtain relevant data.

A participant may be queried by the activity tracking system during the process of executing the scoring algorithm.

A device or participant or a database may interact with the activity tracking system securely and or using conventional authorization and authentication techniques.

Preferably a participant registers to the activity tracking system using a registration process page or application module. During registration the system builds and maintains a participant profile.

There are many potential use cases for the techniques described herein. They include one or more of the following which are merely representative.

Health Fitness Challenges have become a popular way to motivate participants to become more active by engaging in fitness related activities such as running or riding a bicycle. In some cases these challenges may have highly motivating prizes or rewards associated with them causing an incentive for a participant to knowingly or accidentally submit an inaccurate or inauthentic activity report. Doctors and physical trainers often create physical or nutritional activity plans for participants. As participants complete the prescribed plan they may create activity reports from various devices and sources. Understanding the likely authenticity of the report would aid the doctor or trainer in helping the participant achieve the desired outcome. In another scenario a participant may be using a device or other source to track activities. Knowing the likelihood that the report was accurate is helpful to the participant. For example if a participant used a GPS device to measure his or her bicycle ride and the device reported that the ride was 30 miles the participant would benefit from knowing the likely accuracy of this report for the purposes of managing his or her own training.

These examples should not be taken by way of limitation. This system has a broad range of application including health fitness related contests and challenges personal coaching medical care and personal health records and health insurance programs. These are merely exemplary use cases.

While the above describes a particular order of operations performed by certain embodiments of the invention it should be understood that such order is exemplary as alternative embodiments may perform the operations in a different order combine certain operations overlap certain operations or the like. References in the specification to a given embodiment indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature.

While given components of the system have been described separately one of ordinary skill will appreciate that some of the functions may be combined or shared in given instructions program sequences code portions and the like.

As described above the techniques described herein are provided using a set of one or more computing related entities systems machines processes programs libraries functions or the like that together facilitate or provide the described functionality described above. In a typical implementation the activity tracking system comprises one or more computers. A representative machine comprises commodity hardware an operating system an application runtime environment and a set of applications or processes and associated data that provide the functionality of a given system or subsystem. As described the functionality may be implemented in a standalone node or across a distributed set of machines.

The integrity verification techniques described herein need not be implemented using any particular delivery mechanism e.g. over the Internet using a client server approach or the like or even practiced over a network. The technique also may be used in an off line application in the firmware or software of a non connected device or in any other computing environment.

The activity report whose integrity is verified according to the techniques described herein may describe other activity such as biometrics e.g. a user reports weight and the technique reviews prior weight readings etc. and assigns a score regarding the current report nutrition e.g. a user reports eating only 1500 Kcals in a day and the technique reviews nutrition weight activity history etc. and assigns a score regarding the current report or the like. Thus as used herein fitness related activity should be broadly construed to cover these additional applications.

