---

title: System and method for visualizing an object in a simulated environment
abstract: A computer-implemented method for visualizing an object includes the steps of providing a simulated environment; rendering, with at least one processor, at least one virtual object based at least partially on the simulated environment, a viewable angle of the at least one virtual object, and object characteristics associated with the at least one virtual object, the object characteristics comprising at least one of the following: reflectance, transmittance, attenuation, or any combination thereof, and changing a viewable angle of the at least one virtual object in response to user input. A system and a computer program product for implementing the aforementioned method includes appropriately communicatively connected hardware components.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09076247&OS=09076247&RS=09076247
owner: PPG Industries Ohio, Inc.
number: 09076247
owner_city: Cleveland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120810
---
The present invention relates generally to the visualization of objects and more specifically to systems methods and computer program products for visualizing virtual objects in a simulated environment.

Typically consumers view products online prior to purchasing them relying on a visual representation of the product shown on a website as accurately portraying the physical product being purchased. However unlike being in an actual retail environment viewing an object online does not allow a user to see how the product looks in different lighting and or environmental conditions.

This problem especially applies to coatings paints glass building materials and other like products for which optical properties are often complex and visual appearance is important. Consumers are unable to accurately rely on a website portrayal for details such as for example the reflectance transmittance and color of an object. Moreover the lighting conditions for website images are unknown. One does not know if they are viewing the product as photographed under fluorescent incandescent or natural lighting conditions.

Thus suppliers and manufacturers of certain products usually make samples and swatches available to their customers to provide a way to accurately view the product. This way customers can view the sample in different lighting conditions and environments to make an informed purchasing decision. However supplying all potential customers with physical samples is costly and difficult and often requires sending several different samples so that the customers have a catalog to choose from.

Current approaches to providing accurate visualizations of products through websites are image driven enabling users to view various images in a number of ways. In these systems environmental conditions are those that existed when the photographs were taken. A change in lighting condition would require a new set of images and each angle of visibility would require a separate image. Such image based methods are limited when the properties and types of materials and or products vary and where there is a need to visualize the product in various conditions. Further an image based approach limits options to customize and combine materials since the visualizations are predetermined and not uniquely rendered.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to address some or all of the deficiencies in the prior art.

According to one preferred and non limiting embodiment provided is a computer implemented method for visualizing an object including providing a simulated environment rendering with at least one processor at least one virtual object based at least partially on the simulated environment a viewable angle of the at least one virtual object and object characteristics associated with the at least one virtual object the object characteristics comprising at least one of the following reflectance transmittance attenuation or any combination thereof and changing a viewable angle of the at least one virtual object in response to user input.

According to another preferred and non limiting embodiment provided is a system for generating a virtual object in a simulated environment including at least one computer system including at least one processor configured to generate a user interface comprising a simulated environment render the virtual object in the simulated environment based at least partially on optical properties of the virtual object a viewable angle of the virtual object and the simulated environment and modify based at least partially on user input at least one of the following the viewable angle of the virtual object the object characteristics the simulated environment or any combination thereof.

According to another preferred and non limiting embodiment provided is a computer implemented method for displaying a glass object in a simulated environment the method including receiving a selection from a user the selection comprising at least one object characteristic displaying a simulated environment rendering a virtual glass object in the simulated environment based at least partially on object characteristics associated with the selection a viewable angle of the virtual glass object and the simulated environment and modifying the viewing angle of the virtual glass object based at least partially on user input.

According to a further preferred and non limiting embodiment provided is a computer program product for displaying a glass object in a simulated environment the computer program product including at least one non transitory computer readable medium including instructions which when executed by at least one processor cause the at least one processor to receive a selection from a user the selection comprising at least one object characteristic display a simulated environment render a virtual glass object in the simulated environment based at least partially on object characteristics associated with the selection a viewable angle of the virtual glass object and the simulated environment and modify the viewing angle of the virtual glass object based at least partially on user input.

For purposes of the description hereinafter the terms end upper lower right left vertical horizontal top bottom lateral longitudinal and derivatives thereof shall relate to the invention as it is oriented in the drawing figures. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments of the invention. Hence specific dimensions and other physical characteristics related to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting. Further it is to be understood that the invention may assume various alternative variations and step sequences except where expressly specified to the contrary.

Referring to shown is a system for visualizing a virtual object in a simulated environment according to one preferred and non limiting embodiment of the present invention. A computer system includes a program module an object database and an environment database . The computer system is in communication with a display device and an input device . The simulation module is configured to display on the display device a graphical user interface GUI that includes a simulated environment . Within the simulated environment a virtual object is displayed according to one or more conditions associated with the simulated environment using data from the object database and or the environment database . The virtual object may be an object comprising a material such as a pane of coated or uncoated glass. However it will be appreciated that the virtual object may take on any number of forms.

The computer system may include a single computer a server computer a combination of computers or any other combination of hardware and or software components. The components may be localized or in some embodiments distributed among any number of devices local or remote. For example in a preferred and non limiting embodiment the computer system may include one or more server computers accessible via the internet that perform most of the data processing and delivery processes and provide data to a remote terminal. In another preferred and non limiting embodiment one or more server computers perform some of the processing and or delivery processes but other processes are performed by a remote terminal. In other embodiments a terminal may include the entirety of the computer system and may be local to the display device and input device . It will be appreciated that various other arrangements are possible.

The terms virtual object and virtual objects as used herein refer to one or more objects of any shape size or type. As an example a virtual object may be a visual representation of a glass pane a building a surface or surface area or any other item. It will be appreciated that a virtual object may be any visual representation of one or more items and or surfaces. The visual representation of the virtual object may be displayed on a display device and have a three dimensional or two dimensional appearance. In a preferred and non limiting embodiment the virtual object is a glass pane or other glass like building material. In another embodiment the virtual object may be a building or part of a building having a glass or glass like exterior. In one preferred and non limiting embodiment virtual objects are associated with one or more physical properties which may be related to matter that a virtual object comprises a type of the virtual object and or a coating on the virtual object. Additionally a virtual object may be imported into the system. For example computer graphics images video scans or other types of media may be imported and converted into virtual objects.

As used herein the terms object characteristic and object characteristics refer to one or more characteristics that may be associated with a virtual object. Object characteristics may include an object type e.g. glass type coating type etc. object properties e.g. reflectance transmittance color etc. an object size or mass an object composition e.g. material an object shape or any other characteristics. For example glass characteristics may include glass type e.g. various types of glass such as uncoated tinted glass Azuria Solarbronze etc. glass properties e.g. solar heat range color reflectance transmittance etc. glass size e.g. thickness glass composition etc. Likewise coating characteristics may include coating types coating properties coating composition etc.

As used herein the terms object property and object properties refer to one or more physical properties of any type of physical matter such as a solid liquid and or gas. These properties may include for example optical properties such as reflectance transmittance attenuation absorption refraction and or color tint. Different types of matter may have various optical properties represented by attenuation reflectance and transmittance coefficients as examples. Optical properties relating to colors may be represented by for example various color spaces models e.g. RGB CMYK L a b etc . In addition to optical properties the physical properties may also include other physical properties that affect a visual appearance of the object or material and may influence the optical properties such as shape thickness texture etc. The object properties may also include properties such as for example solar heat gain coefficients SHGC U values e.g. heat transfer coefficients gas types for objects comprising a gas filled cavity for example and other material specific properties.

As referenced herein the term database refers to one or more data structures data sources and or other types of data that may include for example data relating to properties of one or more virtual objects coatings and other physical matter and or one or more environments. The data structures may be independent of each other or may be included in the same overall data set. For example in a preferred and non limiting embodiment the object database and environment database are both stored on one or more storage devices in communication with a server computer. It will be appreciated that the data may be in any arrangement. The object and environment databases may be the same database or may be physically and or logically separate. The databases may be structured in any way such as a table text file structured database etc. in one preferred and non limiting embodiment of the present invention the databases are in the form of Extensible Markup Language XML .

The object database may include one or more databases that store object data representing object characteristics such as for example optical and or other physical properties of an object. The object characteristics may be associated with the composition of a virtual object or a coating as examples. The object data for a given virtual object may have values associated with a front surface and back surface of the object. Differences in front and back surfaces of an object may be caused by coatings or other materials that produce unidirectional effects such as reflectance transmittance attenuation and or differences in color. The object data may also include object characteristics associated with different lighting or other environmental conditions such as location and or angle of incidence of the light source with respect to an object a wavelength and or frequency of the light an intensity of the light etc. In the object database object types e.g. glass type coating type etc. may be associated with one or more object characteristics.

In one preferred and non limiting embodiment of the present invention the object database comprises an external data resource such as that maintained by the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory LBL . The LBL maintains databases for associating optical properties with different types of glass products coatings and other materials. Various entities provide this data to the LBL for different products and the LBL stores and maintains this data for public access. Thus the LBL may be accessed to retrieve reflectance transmittance and color information for a specific type of glass e.g. Caribia at different viewing angles. The data from the LBL or other object database may be used to calculate attenuation coefficients and or refractive indexes for different objects.

Likewise the environment database may include any database or data source that stores environment data representing physical properties associated with an environment to be simulated. This data may include for example media items such as images videos panoramic including spherical panoramic images etc. lighting information associated with weather conditions various forms of cloud cover sunlight geographic regions and other factors. The environment data may also include data relating to other types of information such as temperature non visible light sun position e.g. time of day artificial light conditions etc. Images may be associated with various luminosities representing a simulated lighting condition of the environment. Luminosities may be determined from the image in real time as the virtual object is rendered in the simulated environment or may be predetermined and associated with various images in the environment database . Environment data may be provided to a user or imported by a user as examples.

With reference to illustrated is a system for visualizing a virtual object in a simulated environment according to one preferred and non limiting embodiment of the present invention. A program module in a server computer system is in communication with an environment database and a network environment such as the internet. An object database and user terminal are also in communication with the network environment . In the illustrated example the environment database is local to the server computer system and the object database is external. However it will be appreciated that various other arrangements are possible. The server computer system may include for example a web server configured to serve web content.

The user terminal may include a display device and an input device . The server computer system serves the user terminal with web content that is in the form of a GUI accessible through a web browser or software application. The program module may retrieve object data from the object database in response to user input through the input device specifying for example an object type that is associated with one or more properties. The GUI displays a simulated environment on the display device including a virtual object . The virtual object is rendered from environment data obtained from the environment database and object data obtained from the object database . As described herein the rendering may also take into account other parameters such as a viewing angle of the virtual object an angle of the virtual object with respect to a lighting condition in the simulated environment and other factors and or considerations.

The program module may include program instructions that cause a computer to receive user input indicating a selection of one or more objects from a list of objects. The object selected can be associated with object characteristics including various physical properties. The program instructions may further cause the computer to identify object data that indicate one or more properties of the selected object. After having identified the object data the program instructions render a virtual object comprising the object characteristics in a simulated environment .

The virtual object may be rendered with one or more algorithms. In one preferred and non limiting embodiment Fresnel equations are used to calculate the behavior of light through a virtual object. The algorithms may take as input object characteristics such as reflectance transmittance and attenuation coefficients refractive index viewing angle angle of lighting conditions with respect to the virtual object and other considerations. For three dimensional virtual objects or for multiple glass pares the algorithms may consider interferences between multiple light waves. It will be appreciated that the rendering may also be performed by using directly measured angular reflectance and transmittance data. For example measured angular reflectance and transmittance data for various types of glass coatings and other materials can be stored in a database and interpolated for all viewing angles. Additionally attenuation coefficients and or refractive indexes allow for the rendering of the virtual object to account for different thicknesses.

In one preferred and non limiting embodiment the virtual object is rendered as a vector graphic using compilers and libraries such as for example Visual Studio C including C libraries MATLAB DirectX High Level Shading Language HLSL shader libraries and other libraries for high dynamic range environment rendering. For rendering the virtual object in a web browser WebGL can be used in conjunction with various libraries such as THREE.js provided by Google. However it will be appreciated that any number of different software development environments compilers and libraries can be used and that the virtual object may be rendered as any type of graphic including a raster or vector graphic.

With reference to and shown are GUIs according to one preferred and non limiting embodiment of the present invention. In and a virtual object coated in a material is shown at two different viewing angles. Although the virtual object displayed in both and are the same the different angles of the virtual objects with respect to a simulated lighting condition and or a viewing angle produce different effects. In and the lighting condition is a simulated light source that is approximately in the upper right of the pictured simulated environment as evidenced by the difference in lightness color and reflectance of the visualizations shown in both illustrations.

Similarly with reference to and the virtual object displayed in has a front facing side that is darker than the front facing side of because the virtual object is situated at an angle such that the simulated light source is not directly exposed to it. In contrast the front facing side of is reflecting the simulated light source and therefore appears to be lighter. As a user manipulates the virtual objects the rendering may be updated in real time or substantially in real time so as to realistically and fluidly display the virtual object in simulated environmental conditions.

Referring now to a method for visualizing an object in a simulated environment is illustrated according to one preferred and non limiting embodiment of the present invention. Starting at step user input is received indicating a selection of at least one object. This object may be for example a type of glass product or a coating for a glass product. Other parameters may be selected as well such as but not limited to an object type and or composition an environment and or various properties of the environment such as lighting condition intensity location of light source etc. It will be appreciated that the selections may be made by a user through a GUI with various selectable options e.g. radio buttons drop down boxes input boxes check boxes slide bars etc. and that in other embodiments the selections may occur at any time. For example the selections may be made by a user initially prior to rendering the virtual object or the selections may be input after the virtual object is displayed. In yet another example these parameters may be preset or based on other conditions or input.

At step the system retrieves or identifies object data associated with the selected object. As explained herein object data may be retrieved from a local or remote data source such as an object database or a combination of data sources. Object data may represent a variety of object characteristics as discussed above such as the physical properties of an object including a reflectance transmittance color and or other properties.

Next at step the system provides a simulated environment. As described herein the simulated environment may include an image series of images spherical panoramas lighting conditions weather conditions etc. In one example a simulated environment may have a lighting condition associated with an angle or location of a simulated light source. The simulated environment may be provided to a user terminal and displayed on a display device. In a preferred and non limiting embodiment the simulated environment may include at least a portion of a spherical panoramic image. The spherical panoramic image may be for example a high dynamic range spherical panorama. In one non limiting embodiment the simulated environment may be provided through a web interface. A high dynamic range image can be displayed on a standard low dynamic range e.g. 8 bit display through the use of blooming.

At step the system renders the selected object in the simulated environment as a virtual object . As described herein the rendering of the selected object may take into account the simulated environment the object data the environment data an initial angle of the virtual object and or other data parameters and considerations. The processing required to render the object may be performed on a user terminal server computer or any combination of processors and devices. Although the virtual object is rendered based at least partially on object data the virtual object may also be rendered based on the environment data and other parameters.

As a next step a viewable angle of the virtual object is changed in response to user input. The viewable angle may be changed with respect to the display and with respect to the virtual object. For example the viewable angle of the virtual object may be changed by rotating the environment with respect to the virtual object by rotating the virtual object with respect to the environment or by any other method. When a user initiates a change in a viewable angle of the object the method may then go to step in order to render the object again taking into consideration the new viewing angle.

In one preferred and non limiting embodiment the rendered object can be moved e.g. rotated displaced etc. or the environment perspective changed. Thus the viewing angle of the virtual object is modified allowing a user to see how the selected virtual object appears at a different angle with respect to a lighting condition and or a user perspective. The virtual object may be re rendered as the product is moved or as the environment perspective changes to account for the new viewing angle. As an example a user may manipulate the virtual object with a mouse keyboard touchscreen or other form of user input. Additionally the lighting condition may be changed or moved by a user also resulting in the virtual object being re rendered to account for this change.

Referring now to a method for visualizing an object in a simulated environment is illustrated according to one preferred and non limiting embodiment of the present invention. At a first step a simulated environment is displayed including a lighting condition. At a second step object data is identified including the reflectance transmittance and color properties of an object. As a third step a simulated view of the virtual object is rendered in the simulated environment based on the object data the lighting condition and a viewing angle. The next steps and check to see if any conditions have been changed. At step a determination is made whether a viewing angle of the virtual object has changed. If it has the method proceeds back to step to re render a simulated view of the virtual object. At step a determination is made whether the virtual object has changed. If it has the method proceeds back to step to identify object data for the new virtual object and then to step to re render the virtual object. At step a determination is made whether an environment has changed. If it has the method proceeds to step to display and simulate the new environment and then to step to identify object data if necessary and then to step to re render the virtual object in the new environment.

With reference to a method for visualizing an object in a simulated environment is illustrated according to one preferred and non limiting embodiment. As a first step a simulated environment is provided that may include for example one or more images or a spherical panoramic image. At a second step perceived luminosities of different portions of the simulated environment are determined as lighting conditions. At a third step object characteristics are identified for the virtual object to be rendered. At the last step the virtual object is rendered based on object characteristics an angle of the virtual object and the determined luminosity of the simulated environment.

For example in an outdoor simulated environment the virtual object may reflect based on one or more reflective properties of the virtual object and parameters of a lighting condition associated with that environment a sky that includes clouds when a surface of the virtual object is substantially parallel to the ground e.g. x and y rotational axis substantially equal to zero . If the object data indicates that the virtual object is highly reflective the reflected sky and clouds may be predominantly visible over the ground that is visible directly through the virtual object. This may range from a complete reflectiveness with a virtual object having mirror like properties to no reflectiveness with a virtual object that is intended to minimize reflection. In this example a perceived luminosity may be stronger from the sky area of the environment than from elsewhere in the environment. This luminosity may influence how the virtual object is rendered.

As another example in the outdoor simulated environment the visualization may include a glare associated with the lighting condition. In an actual environment glare occurs when an angle of the surface of the product with respect to a viewing perspective and a light condition object type and or other parameters causes an increased ratio of luminosity between the object and the light source. This effect may be simulated by the system. Additionally the system may simulate a bloom effect as is known in computer graphics to simulate a photograph or video captured on film. A bloom effect may blur and or envelope the edges of the virtual object with light and will be described further herein.

For example in one preferred and non limiting embodiment object data representative of a L a b color space e.g. CIE L ab may be converted to RGB or CMYK color schemes. L a b color takes into account human perception and can adjust to simulated lighting conditions. Additionally the L a b color scheme includes all perceivable colors ranging beyond the capabilities of the RGB color scheme. The L dimension of L a b coordinates relates to a lightness and the a and b dimensions relate to color. The L a b color space includes all of the possible colors of RGB and CMYK color schemes in addition to many more permutations. A color representation in L a b may be converted to RGB for display through a webpage.

Referring now to shown are GUIs according to a further non limiting embodiment of the present invention. With reference to and illustrated is a virtual object that includes a structure comprising a front face and a side face in addition to other sides not shown. In this example the structure is a virtual object comprising one or more glass panes that comprise the front face side face and other faces of the structure. The virtual object is rendered in a simulated environment based on a lighting condition. In the illustrated examples of and the simulated light sources are at different locations with respect to the virtual object . The virtual object may also include other building materials that comprise physical properties or are coated with a coating having physical properties. In the front face is lighter than the front face in because the simulated lighting condition is situated toward a left side of the environment and results in the front face reflecting the lighting condition. In the simulated lighting condition is toward the right of the simulated environment and results in the side face reflecting the light and appearing to be lighter and the front face appearing darker.

Referring now to and a GUI depicts a virtual object in a simulated environment according to one non limiting embodiment of the present invention. The virtual object comprises a building having front facing windows that simulate glass panes having a coating or otherwise having physical properties including optical properties. In and the front facing window is one type of glass object and the front facing window is a second type of glass object. The two windows are associated with different object data and even at the same angle of incidence to the simulated lighting condition produce different visual effects. The windows in include a reflective pane of glass and the windows in include a less reflective pane of glass that may also be a different color.

In one preferred and non limiting embodiment a virtual object comprising a structure may be rotated with respect to the simulated environment or the entire simulated environment may be rotated. In this way different views of a virtual object e.g. structure can be rendered. Additionally a visualization may be provided from inside a structure looking out of a glass pane. Thus potential customers of a type of glass can visualize what a building will look like from the exterior in a variety of environmental conditions and what the environment will look like from inside the building looking outside the windows. For example the windows may be highly reflective in one direction looking at the windows from the exterior and may be less reflective in the other direction looking outside.

With reference to a user interface with tools is shown according to one preferred and non limiting embodiment. The GUI displays a simulated environment and a virtual object in that environment. The virtual object has a front facing side and is rendered based on physical properties associated with that virtual object and the simulated environment . The GUI also includes various interfaces comprising tools. An environment selection interface allows for the selection of a simulated environment and other display options relating to the environment. A distance selection interface may be provided to allow for various distances and perspectives to be specified. For example the distance selection interface may be used to specify the distance between glass panes in instances where the virtual object comprises more than one pane or a three dimensional glass box and or a distance between the simulated environment and the object for rendering purposes. The GUI may also include an object selection interface that allows users to select different types of glasses thicknesses and or coatings. It will be appreciated that any number of user tools may be provided in or out of the GUI and that the object may comprise any number of materials resulting in different types of tools and options.

With reference to various user interfaces are shown according to one preferred and non limiting embodiment. It will be appreciated that the user interfaces may include different types of tools such as buttons pull down menus option boxes text input boxes radio buttons etc. Referring now to an environment selection interface is shown according to one preferred and non limiting embodiment. The interface includes an environment selection tool a Show Bloom option a Double Pane Glass option and a Reset Camera button. The environment selection tool allows users to select any number of environments such as a beach forest city building interior and environments associated with various times of day.

With continued reference to the Show Bloom option may produce a bloom effect as is known in the art of computer graphics in which feathers or strands of light form around the virtual object to simulate the effect an ordinary camera lens would have. This effect may produce a glow around the virtual object and simulate what the virtual object would appear like in a photograph or video. The Double Pane Glass option if chosen may cause the object to comprise two panes of glass separated by a distance. The use of two panes of glass may affect the optical properties of the virtual object. The Reset Camera button may reset the camera perspective viewing angle of the object or other display properties to a default setting allowing users to reorient themselves with the interface.

Referring now to an object selection interface is shown according to one preferred and non limiting embodiment. The object selection interface includes a Glass Family selection tool a Coating selection tool and a Thickness selection tool . In one example these tools are pull down menus. The Glass Family selection tool may allow a user to select one or more of several types of objects that the virtual object can comprise. The Coating selection tool may allow a user to select one or more of several types of coatings that are to be applied to the virtual object. The Thickness selection tool may allow a user to select a desired thickness for the virtual object. A Flip Glass selection tool may allow a user to change the viewable angle of the virtual object such as a 180 degree angle e.g. a flip . The tools in the object selection interface may change the physical properties of the virtual object or a viewing angle of the virtual object thus changing the way that the virtual object is visualized.

With reference to a distance selection interface is shown according to one preferred and non limiting embodiment. The distance selection interface may have one or more options to change viewing perspectives or distances associated with the virtual object. For example a Scene Distance selection tool allows a user to specify the distance between the environment and the virtual object. Although this type of distance may be preset by the system for provided environments and virtual objects of given proportions selecting the distance may be required for user supplied environments or objects. Further the Air Gap selection tool allows a user to specify the spacing in a hollow object or between two glass panes that could be filled with air or another type of gas. The Scene Distance selection tool and Air Gap selection tool may be slide bars or any other type of selection means.

Referring to a ray diagram illustrates how light moves through a piece of glass based on transmission and reflection. In one preferred and non limiting embodiment the virtual object is rendered to simulate the actual optics of a real piece of glass or other object. Several external rays A E A D contact the virtual object . Although other rays may be incident to each external ray that travels or is reflected off the virtual object illustrates several rays that in some form result in output ray . As an example output ray includes the directly reflected ray of ray A and the ray that traveled through the virtual object according to certain transmission properties altering external ray A. Additionally some form or portion of external rays B D and B E all end up as part of output ray .

Referring to a ray diagram illustrates how light moves through two pieces of glass based on properties of transmission and reflection. External rays A E contact the virtual object e.g. first piece of glass and external rays A C contact the virtual object e.g. second piece of glass . As illustrated output ray is a result to some degree of all external rays A C and A E through direct or indirect reflection and transmittance. The space between the pieces of glass also affects the optical properties of the virtual object comprising both pieces of glass.

With reference to shown are graphs of optical properties calculated for various viewing angles of a particular object in one preferred and non limiting embodiment of the present invention. With reference to the transmittance graph illustrates the relationship between a viewing angle as an x axis and transmittance as a y axis. illustrates a reflectance front graph for a front facing side of an object as an example one side of a piece of glass and the relationship between viewing angle as an x axis and reflectance as a y axis. Similarly illustrates a reflectance back graph for a rear facing side of the object as an example a second side of the piece of glass represented in

Referring now to shown is a data table for a particular type of object showing calculated transmittance and reflectance values compared to values retrieved from the LBL database. This particular data table relates to a SolarBan60 clear coating and shows values for transmittance Tvis reflectance from front RFVis and reflectance from back RBVis . As can be seen the calculated visualizer values closely approximate the LBL values.

Referring now to and augmented reality applications are illustrated according to preferred and non limiting embodiments of the present invention. In illustrated is an actual environment a mobile device being held in that actual environment a visual representation of the actual environment on a display of the mobile device and a rendering of a virtual object in that visual representation of the actual environment . One or more cameras or other input devices on the mobile device capture the actual environment as a video feed or still image that is displayed by the device . In this manner a user is able to view how various objects appear in that actual environment . As explained herein various tools may allow the user to manipulate the virtual object . The mobile device may include for example a smartphone a tablet computer a laptop computer or any other mobile portable computing device having a camera or other input means and a display device.

It will be further appreciated that in addition to rendering a virtual object in the augmented reality application coatings or other materials with optical properties may be virtually displayed on various actual surfaces and or objects present in the actual environment . For example standing in front of a glass building and viewing the building through the mobile device a visual rendering of that building could be displayed that simulates a specified coating on the exterior sides. In another example a user could use the augmented reality application to virtually paint various walls of a room with different colors.

Referring now to one preferred and non limiting embodiment of an augmented reality system is shown. In this example the mobile device mimics a pane of glass using one or more cameras coupled to the device. In this embodiment of the augmented reality system a user is shown a rendering of how an actual environment appears through a glass object having one or more specified physical properties. Viewing options may include the ability to change the direction e.g. flip the glass and view the actual environment as though a user were looking outside or inside a window having such a coating. Moreover it will be appreciated that back and front facing cameras may be used to realistically convey optical properties. For example a front facing camera may be used to obtain image data to be reflected and transmitted including luminosity. Various configurations of hardware and software may be used to implement the augmented reality systems.

In one preferred and non limiting embodiment a glass performance hub may be provided to allow users to compare the properties of different glass and coating products. The glass performance hub may for example provide energy analysis thermal stress data and wind load information for different types of glass or glass like building materials. The hub may allow users to compare different glass or coating types based on performance and or aesthetics. The hub may further allow a user to incorporate selected glass types or coating types on images of buildings or other structures to simulate how that glass or coating would appear in the illustrated environment. The hub may have search options for users to locate different glass and or coating products and may sort or filter results based on desired performance characteristics categories etc. Glass and coating types may be compared by for example SHGC values U values reflectance transmittance etc.

The present invention may be implemented on a variety of computing devices and systems wherein these computing devices include the appropriate processing mechanisms and computer readable media for storing and executing computer readable instructions such as programming instructions code and the like. As shown in personal computers in a computing system environment are provided. This computing system environment may include but is not limited to at least one computer having certain components for appropriate operation execution of code and creation and communication of data. For example the computer includes a processing unit typically referred to as a central processing unit or CPU that serves to execute computer based instructions received in the appropriate data form and format. Further this processing unit may be in the form of multiple processors executing code in series in parallel or in any other manner for appropriate implementation of the computer based instructions.

In order to facilitate appropriate data communication and processing information between the various components of the computer a system bus is utilized. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. In particular the system bus facilitates data and information communication between the various components whether internal or external to the computer through a variety of interfaces as discussed hereinafter.

The computer may include a variety of discrete computer readable media components. For example this computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computer such as volatile media non volatile media removable media non removable media etc. As a further example this computer readable media may include computer storage media such as media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVDs or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer . Further this computer readable media may include communications media such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in other transport mechanisms and include any information delivery media wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media. Computer readable media may include all machine readable media with the sole exception of transitory propagating signals. Of course combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The computer further includes a system memory with computer storage media in the form of volatile and non volatile memory such as ROM and RAM. A basic input output system BIOS with appropriate computer based routines assists in transferring information between components within the computer and is normally stored in ROM. The RAM portion of the system memory typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit e.g. an operating system application programming interfaces application programs program modules program data and other instruction based computer readable codes.

With continued reference to the computer may also include other removable or non removable volatile or non volatile computer storage media products. For example the computer may include a non removable memory interface that communicates with and controls a hard disk drive i.e. a non removable non volatile magnetic medium and a removable non volatile memory interface that communicates with and controls a magnetic disk drive unit which reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk an optical disk drive unit which reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM a Universal Serial Bus USB port for use in connection with a removable memory card etc. However it is envisioned that other removable or non removable volatile or non volatile computer storage media can be used in the exemplary computing system environment including but not limited to magnetic tape cassettes DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM etc. These various removable or non removable volatile or non volatile magnetic media are in communication with the processing unit and other components of the computer via the system bus . The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of operating systems computer readable instructions application programs data structures program modules program data and other instruction based computer readable code for the computer whether duplicative or not of this information and data in the system memory .

A user may enter commands information and data into the computer through certain attachable or operable input devices such as a keyboard a mouse etc. via a user input interface . Of course a variety of such input devices may be utilized e.g. a microphone a trackball a joystick a touchpad a touch screen a scanner etc. including any arrangement that facilitates the input of data and information to the computer from an outside source. As discussed these and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through the user input interface coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . Still further data and information can be presented or provided to a user in an intelligible form or format through certain output devices such as a monitor to visually display this information and data in electronic form a printer to physically display this information and data in print form a speaker to audibly present this information and data in audible form etc. All of these devices are in communication with the computer through an output interface coupled to the system bus . It is envisioned that any such peripheral output devices be used to provide information and data to the user.

The computer may operate in a network environment through the use of a communications device which is integral to the computer or remote therefrom. This communications device is operable by and in communication to the other components of the computer through a communications interface . Using such an arrangement the computer may connect with or otherwise communicate with one or more remote computers such as a remote computer which may be a personal computer a server a router a network personal computer a peer device or other common network nodes and typically includes many or all of the components described above in connection with the computer . Using appropriate communication devices e.g. a modem a network interface or adapter etc. the computer may operate within and communication through a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a virtual private network VPN an office network an enterprise network an intranet the Internet etc. it will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

As used herein the computer includes or is operable to execute appropriate custom designed or conventional software to perform and implement the processing steps of the method and system of the present invention thereby forming a specialized and particular computing system. Accordingly the presently invented method and system may include one or more computers or similar computing devices having a computer readable storage medium capable of storing computer readable program code or instructions that cause the processing unit to execute configure or otherwise implement the methods processes and transformational data manipulations discussed hereinafter in connection with the present invention. Still further the computer may be in the form of a personal computer a personal digital assistant a portable computer a laptop a palmtop a mobile device a mobile telephone a server or any other type of computing device having the necessary processing hardware to appropriately process data to effectively implement the presently invented computer implemented method and system.

Although the invention has been described in detail for the purpose of illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example it is to be understood that the present invention contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any embodiment can be combined with one or more features of any other embodiment.

