---

title: Database system and control method therefor
abstract: A consensus building support tool provides a support for consensus building through an argument regarding an ordinary operation state of a target system. History obtained in the process of the consensus building is recorded in a database layer as an agreement graph. A monitoring node tool detects deviation from the ordinary operation state of the target system based on an actual operation state of the target system and the agreement graph. A contract generating tool extracts information data regarding the consensus building from the agreement graph when the deviation from the ordinary operation state is detected in the target system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09117014&OS=09117014&RS=09117014
owner: Symphony Co. Ltd
number: 09117014
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121113
---
The present invention relates to a database system. More particularly the present invention relates to a database system and a control method for the same to maintain dependability of a target system.

Information IT systems are required to continuously make available services that the systems provide without anxiety. The information systems substantially increase in scale and take a very important role as social infrastructure so that once an accident occurs the whole nation or in some cases throughout the world is affected by it. There is a case where a serious failure is caused in banking systems communication systems railway systems and cloud systems which leads to a huge amount of compensation. Stakeholders bear in mind that if a large accident occurs liabilities are pursued and if negligence is admitted a harsh penalty is imposed.

With regards to reliability availability maintainability safety completeness and confidentiality of computer systems dependability has been discussed for a long time as properties that computers need to include for example see Non Patent Literature 1 . In the development of embedded systems a technique has been applied wherein a development project is drawn up at first and functional requirements and non functional requirements for target systems and services are established as a specification and verifications and tests are conducted over a long period of time and deployed. However the number of failures has been increased day by day. In the standards such as CMMI and ISO 26262 they have been attempted to reduce human errors. However these existing technologies and standards lack consideration for the characteristics of the systems in the open environment.

Accordingly Japan Science and Technology Agency IST which is an independent administrative institution started the DEOS project as one of CREST programs in 2006 which is aimed at consolidating institutionalizing and further commercializing a system of techniques that guarantee the dependability of information systems. If this system of techniques is expressed in a word it can be described as a system of techniques in which the safety standard of systems is defined and when the safety standard of systems is deviated abnormal situations are avoided before running into abnormal situations or even when the system is run into abnormal situations immediate recovery can be applied which the inventors and the like define as open system dependability Open Systems Dependability .

This open system dependability is classified in view of process and consolidated as DEOS process for example see Non Patent Literature 2 and Patent Literature 1 . If the characteristics of the DEOS process is expressed in a word it can be described as a process that regulates the behavior of persons and objects according to the target systems in order to guarantee the open system dependability according to the entire life cycle regarding the target system ranging from planning and designing on the upstream to operations which maintains the normal operational states of the target system with agreements with regards to every argument as a base which includes an agreement with regards to requirements for the target system from persons stakeholders who engage in the target system. D Case is designed as a common language between respective processes for example see Non Patent Literature 3 .

NPL 1 Algirdas Avizienis et. al. Basic Concepts and Taxonomy of Dependable and Secure Computing IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing vol. 1 no. 1 p. 11 33 2004 

NPL 2 Mario Tokoro Open Systems Dependability Dependability Engineering for Ever Changing Systems ISBN 978 1 4665 7751 0 CRC Press 2012 

The expansion of a system scale and an increase in complexity lead to complication of the specification regarding the system and services provided by the system and make it impossible to fully describe all the specifications prior to the development of the system incompleteness of specification . This incompleteness of the specifications leads to the incompleteness of corresponding implementation and the behavior of the services provided by the system cannot completely be grasped which causes the difficulty of grasping what is guaranteed or to what extent it is possible to demand a guarantee. Similarly this incompleteness leads to a difference misunderstanding in understanding the requirements for the systems and services among the stakeholders and also induces human errors.

Furthermore a request corresponding to change in the environment surrounding the system is newly generated. Also it is necessary to correct the requirement at the time of development. Because the change in the environment cannot be known in advance it is impossible to know whether the change in the environment is securely handled based on the operation of the present system. The uncertainty for this change makes it difficult to predict the system operation and when the system handles the change it is most likely that a system failure occurs.

In the above described Non Patent Literature 2 and Patent Literature 1 D Case is introduced as common expression form between a process corresponding to objectives and changes in the environment change accommodation cycle and a process which is activated when the indication of failure is detected or when the failure occurs failure response cycle . The failure response that is assumed at the time of development is described as the D Case and an agreement is made among the stakeholders thereby making it possible to achieve the accountability for the stakeholders at the time of occurrence of the failure. However the D Case agreed among the stakeholders is the agreement for the whole description so that the D Case is complicated along with the expansion of a system scale and it takes a long period of time during which the agreement is concluded.

The present invention has been achieved in view of the above circumstances to solve the technical problems and in an open environment in which incompleteness and uncertainty latently exist it is an object of the present invention to provide a consensus building means for maintaining dependability throughout the entire life cycle of a target system between stakeholders and a means for appropriately operating the target system in accordance with the content of an agreement between the stakeholders.

The present invention has been achieved in order to solve the above described problems. According to the first aspect of the present invention a database system may include a consensus building unit configured to provide a support for consensus building through an argument regarding an ordinary operation state of a target system an agreement graph storing unit configured to store history obtained in a process of the consensus building as an agreement graph a detecting unit configured to detect deviation from the ordinary operation state of the target system based on an actual operation state of the target system and the agreement graph and an extracting unit configured to extract information data regarding the consensus building from the agreement graph when the deviation is detected in the target system. Accordingly this performs the function of detecting the deviation from the ordinary operation state of the target system based on the agreement graph obtained in the process of the consensus building and extracting the necessary information data.

Also according to the first aspect it may be such that the consensus building unit generates the agreement graph as a base with a plurality of models that define the target system and the respective plurality of models uniquely define a meaning of a word regarding the target system uniquely define an effect of an operation regarding the target system and uniquely correlate logical definition with physical definition of data regarding the target system. Accordingly this performs the function of generating the agreement graph as a base with the plurality of models that define the target system.

Also according to the first aspect a document storing unit may be included that is configured to correlate and store the agreement graph and a document regarding the target system generated through action of a plurality of stakeholders at plural stages constituting a life cycle of the target system. Accordingly this performs the function of correlating and storing the agreement graph and the document regarding the target system.

Also according to the first aspect it may be such that the agreement graph is accessed in bilateral cycles which are made up of a change accommodation cycle for continuously changing the target system with respect to an objective of the target system or a change of an environment and a failure response cycle for handling a failure in the target system. Accordingly this performs the function of utilizing the agreement graph in the change accommodation cycle and the failure response cycle.

Also according to the second aspect of the present invention a database system control method may include a consensus building procedure configured to provide a support for consensus building through an argument regarding an ordinary operation state of a target system an agreement graph storing procedure configured to store history obtained in a process of the consensus building as an agreement graph a detecting procedure configured to detect deviation from the ordinary operation state of the target system based on an actual operation state of the target system and the agreement graph and an extracting procedure configured to extract information data regarding the consensus building from the agreement graph when the deviation is detected in the target system. Accordingly this performs the function of recording the agreement graph obtained in the process of the consensus building in the database system detecting the deviation from the ordinary operation state of the target system based on the agreement graph and extracting the necessary information data.

According to the present invention advantageous effects can be achieved in such a manner that in an open environment in which incompleteness and uncertainty latently exist there are provided a consensus building means for maintaining dependability throughout the entire life cycle of a target system between stakeholders and a means for appropriately operating the target system in accordance with the content of an agreement between the stakeholders. In particular it is possible to appropriately operate DEOS process thereby achieving the effect of maintaining the open system dependability regarding the target system.

Furthermore with respect to the reduction of the dependability that is the most problematic factor in a case where the target system is changed due to the change in the environment that surrounds the target system or change in the objectives of businesses and the like there provided advantageous effects of achieving the accountability of the stakeholders and maintaining the open system dependability by removing a barrier between the conventional development phase and operational phase and closely combining the development phase and operational phase through the agreement graph.

The change accommodation cycle is a cycle made up of processes that are required to guarantee the open system dependability of a target system on an upstream process. The change accommodation cycle defines three processes which are a consensus building process a development process and an accountability achievement process .

The failure response cycle is a cycle made up of processes that are required at the time of operating the target system. The failure response cycle defines two processes which are a failure response process and the accountability achievement process . Normally in both cycles the target system is maintained in an ordinary operation state .

Interested persons regarding the dependability of the target system are referred to as stakeholders in the DEOS process. It is assumed that the stakeholders include 1 users of services and products clients the whole society in the case of social infrastructure 2 providers business owner of services and products 3 system providers design development engineers maintenance operators and hardware suppliers 4 authorizers of services and products regulatory authorities and the like but not limited thereto.

There is a possibility that the stakeholders change each objective due to a lapse of time or changes in the environment thereby changing the requirements for functions and services. Herein the changes are referred to as objective change environmental change . In response to the changes the stakeholders take the consideration and request the change in the system at an appropriate time based on mutual agreements therebetween. The DEOS process includes the above described change accommodation cycle as a cycle in response to the requirement.

The target system has an extreme difficulty of fully avoiding failures that are attributed to incompleteness and uncertainty. When the indication of a failure is detected the failure is avoided beforehand but unfortunately when the failure occurs it is necessary to swiftly handle the failure minimize the damage investigate the cause and fulfill accountability. The DEOS process includes the above described failure response cycle in order to handle the situation.

The consensus building process is constituted by a requirement elicitation risk analysis phase and a stakeholder agreement phase . The consensus building process is activated by an objective change environmental change event or activated based on the result of the failure response process .

In the requirement elicitation risk analysis phase the requirements according to the target system are elicited from users demands stakeholders objectives various system environments regulations and the like. Similarly at the same time the scenario of service continuation is developed. The result of the requirement elicitation risk analysis phase is a series of dependability requirements.

The stakeholder agreement phase starts arguments regarding what to change why to change and where to change in the target system by a plurality of stakeholders. The process of the argument and an agreement as its result are logically described as a later described D Case. The stakeholder agreement phase generates an executable procedure from the scenario of the service continuation. The executable procedure is described in D Script and used for the failure response.

The development process is constituted by a design phase an implementation phase a verification phase and a test phase .

In the design phase a requirement which is agreed as the result of the consensus building process at a preceding stage is discussed for example as to where to implement and how to operate the target system and consolidated in a necessary specification.

In the implementation phase a necessary program code is described from the specification of the design phase or a program code that realizes a necessary technology is obtained thereby performing the construction of systems required for operations and the like.

In the verification phase it is verified whether the result of the implementation phase is not incongruous with the result of the consensus building process . The logical consistency of programs and the contradiction of programming language are verified.

In the test phase it is verified whether the target system is operated in accordance with the agreement of the stakeholders in the consensus building process according to benchmarks and fault tolerance tests for performance verification.

The failure response process is activated from the ordinary operation state and constituted by a failure prevention phase a responsive action phase and a cause analysis phase .

The failure prevention phase is activated in particular based on the detection of the indication by an anomaly detection failure occurrence event . When the indication of the failure is detected a necessary measure to avoid the failure is executed. There is a case where the measure is executed by the execution of the above described executable procedure D Script and there is a case where the consensus building process is activated by way of the requisite cause analysis phase whereby the measure by the stakeholders is executed.

On the other hand the responsive action phase is activated in particular based on the occurrence of the failure in the anomaly detection failure occurrence event whereby the measure that restores the target system from the failure into the ordinary operation state is executed. As is the same with the failure prevention phase there is a case where the measure is executed through the execution of the executable procedure D Script and there is a case where the consensus building process is activated by way of the requisite cause analysis phase whereby the measure by the stakeholders is executed.

The ordinary operation state indicates that the target system is in an ordinary operation state. The ordinary operation state is a state where the target system does not substantially deviate from a service level variation tolerance range In Operation Range that has been agreed among the stakeholders and the services are continuously provided for users. It is desirable that the change accommodation cycle is executed in parallel with the ordinary operation and the change of the system is performed while the services are continuously provided. Similarly it is desirable that the failure response cycle is executed while the ordinary operation is continuously performed. In fact there is a case where even when the system detects the indication of abnormality avoidance processing is automatically provided within the service level variation tolerance range thereby continuously providing the service. Moreover there is a case where part of the functions is reduced and the service is continued. However there is a case where providing the service is completely stopped.

The processes executed in the ordinary operation state include the improvement activities of continuous dependability such as the inspection of everyday operation records the periodical reconsideration or improvement for processes and training discipline and education of personnel. There is a possibility that a person in charge of maintenance or operation records the operational states of the system and inspects them on a daily basis thereby finding any indication based on the operational states. Similarly putting the memory resource of the system in a clean state at all times is also very effective usual maintenance or improvement activities. Moreover it is also effective to positively have a rehearsal. Failure occurs when a certain period of time passes and a certain state is reached. If so the occurrence of the failure can be recognized in advance by allowing time to pass beforehand which is so called rehearsal. It depends on the situation at that time as to what extent an appropriate rehearsal can be performed during the operation of the services provided by the information system.

In the accountability achievement process service providers in particular social infrastructure service providers and providers of products widely used in society explain failure status swift accommodation future outlook and the like to the users of services the users of the products and the society at the time of occurrence of the failure. Also when the system is changed in order to satisfy the stakeholders demands for change which is attributed to change in objectives and environments the providers explain the circumstances and when and how the services and functions are improved changed . When the explanation for the implementation status of daily services or a design development maintenance operation process is required the explanation is provided accordingly. This has a very important role in maintaining credibility from the users and society creating consensus in terms of the provision of infrastructure services and consequently protecting conveniences in the course of carrying on the business of service providers.

The dependability maintenance repository system is connected via a target system and a network . The target system may be a system constituted by two sets or more of separate computers. When the target system is constituted by two sets or more of separate computers each computer can be connected to the network . The network in the present embodiment may be a dedicated line or may be a public line that includes the Internet and may be such that a virtual dedicated line is constructed by use of VPN technology on the public line and may also be a communication line provided by OS in the inside of one set of computer. Hereinafter the network is defined as is described above unless otherwise stated.

The dependability maintenance repository system is constituted by three layer structure made up of an upper layer a middle layer and a lower layer.

The upper layer is a fundamental tool layer in which there exists a computer program that supports exchange between the dependability maintenance repository system and each DEOS process. In the present embodiment three tools which include a consensus building support tool a contract generating tool a monitoring node tool are exemplified as a basic tool but not limited thereto.

The consensus building support tool facilitates the implementation of the consensus building process in the DEOS process. In the consensus building process of the DEOS process an argument model proposed by Toulmin Stephen E. Toulmin is adopted for example see ISBN 978 0 5215 3483 3 . Documents generated in the course of reaching an agreement among the stakeholders are expressed by the argument model and recorded in the dependability maintenance repository system .

The contract generating tool supports the writing of a necessary contract regarding the target system based on the information recorded in the dependability maintenance repository system .

The monitoring node tool is related to a D Case monitor node for example see Non Patent Literature 3 which describes necessary information at the monitoring point of the target system and provides necessary functions of monitoring the target system .

The middle layer is a model layer and defines a model required in the fundamental tool layer which is the upper layer. In the present embodiment a basic data model a consensus building model a Toulmin model a meeting model a D Case model and an organization model are exemplified but not limited thereto which are freely expandable or reduceable.

The basic data model defines a model commonly used in the fundamental tool layer which is the upper layer. The consensus building model defines a model required in the consensus building support tool . The Toulmin model defines a model that expresses the argument model of Toulmin. The meeting model defines a model required in a case where the consensus building among the stakeholders is made in the form of meetings. The D Case model defines a model required to record D Case description for example see Non Patent Literature 3 . The organization model defines a model required to correlate the authority of the stakeholders with an organization.

The lower layer is a database layer and a database that records the instance also referred to as model type data of the model defined by the model layer which is the upper layer. In the present embodiment three types which include a graph DB a document DB and a Key Value Store are defined but not limited thereto.

The graph DB is mainly utilized to record the later described agreement model. The document DB is utilized to store necessary documents recorded in the dependability maintenance repository system . The Key Value Store is utilized to record indexes of the graph DB and the document DB .

Arithmetic computation logical computation comparison computation and shift computation are executed in the arithmetic device based on the information on bit data inputted from the input output device . The data executed is stored in the memory device and outputted to the input output device as needed. A series of processing is controlled by the control device in accordance with software programs stored in the memory device . The dependability maintenance repository system and the target system according to the present embodiment are hardware that includes basic functions as the above described computer and controlled by program groups such as operating systems device drivers middleware and application software.

In the above described model layer six models are represented. Data that is generated on the base of these model groups is referred to as a model instance .

The model instance has various document groups such as D Case and its auxiliary information specifications design specifications operation planning reports and logs as instances according to model data. Instances according to the argument include a document group of minutes documents documents regarding claim and dispute and their history and the like. Instances according to scripts include a document group regarding the procedures for verification action inference and the like. In the document groups all modified history is left. Furthermore documents such as a script for verifying whether the target system is in the ordinary operation state and a script for describing an action in a case where the target system stays out of the ordinary operation state are also included as a target by examining a service level variation tolerance range In Operation Range which is a parameter according to the target system agreed among the stakeholders.

The model instance is recorded in the database layer . Three types of repository are provided that include a graph database a document database and Key Value Store considering that the property of data to be targeted is non structural and its relationship is important and the temporal property is included and it is necessary to perform a large volume of data processing of various types at a high speed. The model layer can transparently be accessed to these databases.

In the present embodiment Matrix type Access Control Graph Structured Log Event Correlation Calculation Version Control Trace and Tracking Analysis and Recognition Hypothesis Assumption or Inference Time Clock Management Clustering Classification and Prediction and Context Retrieval are listed as an agreement graph operation but not limited thereto. Part of these may be included or another new computation may be added.

 Matrix type Access Control controls who to access and to which node it should be accessed. Persons belong to an organization so it is necessary to change an access right due to the reassignment in the organization. When the access right after the reassignment in the organization is provided for a node generated prior to the reassignment in the organization it is inconvenient in a case where the nodes are the assets of the former organization. The present computation is aimed at appropriately maintaining the relation of persons the organization and the nodes.

 Graph Structured Log is designed for structuring log data based on the log model. The concrete example of the structuring will be described later.

 Event Correlation Calculation is designed for computing the correlation correlation to consolidate a plurality of events associated. This reduces the number of events and improves the system performance.

 Version Control is such that when a node is modified or when the structure of a node group is modified a version is provided thereby making it possible to access the node group of the version.

 Trace and Tracking is designed for extracting a node group connected by tracing a link from a certain node or notifying a certain node of a connection with a new node.

 Analysis and Recognition is designed for analyzing the connection between nodes or the structure of the node group and extracting the meaning of the nodes or the node group for example by referring to a meaning database or dictionary.

 Hypothesis Assumption or Inference is designed for deriving the property of analogous node group based on the structure of the node group or the correspondence of a meaning.

 Time Clock Management is designed for managing access time that includes generation alteration and deletion with regards to nodes and links or mapping the relative time.

 Clustering Classification and Prediction is designed for classifying the node groups by use of hierarchical clustering K means technique and the like.

 Context Retrieval is designed for performing retrieval in consideration of context in the graph computation. For example this is because when there is a description regarding a car whether the description indicates the car or a person s name depends on the context.

Herein the D Case will briefly be described. The D Case extends an assurance case assurance case ISO IEC 15026 2 2011 and is described by use of GSN Goal Structuring Notation http www users.cs.york.ac.uk tpk dsn2004.pdf notation. The D Case is utilized by the change accommodation cycle and the failure response cycle in the above described DEOS process. For example a model instance is the example of an instance regarding the D Case model . Also a model instance is the example of an instance regarding the consensus building model . The model instances and are respectively correlated with agreement nodes and . The agreement node is an agreement regarding the D Case model instance in which a plurality of nodes exist and an agreement node is an agreement regarding only a specific node. Thus the subject of agreement may be not only a single node but also a plurality of node groups.

Herein D Case notation will briefly be described. A rectangle represents a goal that needs to be proved through an argument. A round corner square is context and context information supplementary information regarding a node to be associated is described. A parallelogram represents strategy and indicates policy in a case where the argument is disassembled into sub goals. A circle represents evidence or monitoring and indicates basis regarding the goal associated. A rhombus indicates a node wherein an argument has not been made.

Next it is assumed that the D Case is modified from to at a time t. A corresponding D Case model is represented by a model instance . The agreement graph in a case where an agreement is made by two stakeholders and is exemplified in .

Next a consensus building process among the stakeholders by use of the dependability maintenance repository system in the present embodiment will be described centering on the consensus building support tool according to the present embodiment. It is assumed that the consensus building support tool is utilized in the consensus building process in the DEOS process. Herein the argument model of Toulmin is adopted but another method may be applied. For example SACM http www.omg.org spec SACM defined by OMG Object Management Group may be used or both may be combined.

The UML class diagram of each model according to the present embodiment will be described referring to . It is noted that in the present embodiment the UML class diagram is illustrated as one example of the embodiment but not limited thereto. Herein the UML class diagram will briefly be described. A square that is divided into two tiers represents class and an upper tier is the name of class and a lower tier is the name of attribute. A solid line from square to square is reference and a name on an arrow is the name of attribute. At the tip of the solid line 0 . . . n represents multiplicity which indicates that the number of preceding instances is 0 or n. A dotted line arrow whose tip is outlined with a blank inside indicates the relation between super class and sub class.

For example the argument with respect to the D Case strategy node may be developed. In this case the D Case strategy node a description node and a claim node are linked as an agreement node. Also the argument with respect to part of sub goals may be developed and the argument with respect to the relation between the plurality of D Cases may be developed. The argument regarding Strategy in D Case  is recorded as a claim node and a description node . In contrast when D Case  is insisted as dispute the node group of D Case  that is correlated with a claim node and a description node is recorded as a state where the node group is linked to the claim node with the attribute of a dispute . The dispute is a dispute link in .

Also an argument breakdown pattern is applied to the consensus building support tool thereby efficiently handling the plurality of D Cases to be targeted. The argument breakdown pattern classifies the policy applied in the case where D Case strategy breaks down into sub goals into patterns such as system breakdown functional breakdown attribute breakdown complete breakdown monotonous breakdown and concrete breakdown see Non Patent Literature 3 . For example the system breakdown pattern which is a pattern wherein the establishment of a goal is argued for each sub system constituting the system handles the D Case for each sub system so that a related agreement graph can also constitute an agreement for each sub system.

Furthermore a document associated with a D Case evidence node is correlated which serves as evidence that establishes a goal . It is noted that the document is illustrated as a document for example stored in a document DB via an external reference node. Also a script associated with a D Case monitor node is correlated which serves as a monitor node that establishes a goal  . It is noted that the script is illustrated as a script for example stored in a document DB via an external reference node. Similarly a reason and warrant that these documents are used are recorded in the database layer as the process of the argument.

The D Case represents an agreement among the stakeholders according to the dependability of the target system at a certain time and is static as the result of the argument at a time when the agreement has been made. On the other hand in the open system according to the present embodiment an agreement is inevitably corrected due to change in the environments. That is the D Case cannot be static in terms of the operation states of the system. When there occurs a deviation from the ordinary operation state the D Case needs to be corrected swiftly. Then it is necessary to be capable of expressing what is argued and its details. The dependability maintenance repository system according to the present embodiment provides a mechanism that enables it. For example the corresponding meeting model instance is extracted from the agreement graph recorded in the database layer and its link is traced by use Trace and Tracking mechanism of the agreement graph operation thereby referring to past meeting data.

The exemplification of part of the agreement graph recorded in the database layer is assumed to be an agreement graph . On the other hand the SLA can define an SLA model . The contract generating tool extracts documents and correlated with nodes that are traceable based on agreement nodes and in the agreement graph in accordance with SLA model and generates a contract .

The monitoring node tool is associated with the D Case monitor node see Non Patent Literature 3 and includes a necessary mechanism to monitor the target system . For example information on what is the most efficient in terms of what to monitor and how long to monitor in the target system serves as beneficial information in a case where monitoring regarding a similar system is designed. Also the monitoring node tool includes a necessary mechanism in order to present Is the monitoring executed in accordance with the specification and Does it satisfy the level of service agreed among the stakeholders on a real time basis. A means of Patent Literature may be applied to this mechanism and another means may be applied.

Also the monitoring node tool deploys the script in the model instance on the execution environment so that the monitoring node tool can comprehend that the target system is in the ordinary operation state on a real time basis. It is noted that in the script is illustrated as a script for example stored in the document DB via the external reference node. Also as the execution environment for example a runtime computer in Patent Literature 1 can be assumed.

Furthermore the monitoring node tool is not limited to the monitoring of the target system but may expand its subject in the use environment organization operation of the target system. In this case the ordinary state of the organization operation is agreed among the stakeholders and recorded in the agreement graph as described above. Then it is possible to avoid falling into an abnormal condition due to its deviation or even when fallen into an abnormal condition it is possible to swiftly restore the condition.

The monitoring node tool extracts Scripts and that are linked to monitoring nodes and in the D Case model instance . The Script is deployed and executed in the target system thereby obtaining the state of the monitoring node . The D Script is corresponded to the log model instance thereby obtaining the state of the monitoring node . The monitoring node tool determines the state of a goal based on the states of the monitoring nodes and in the D Case instance and activates further action as needed.

The relation between the models in the plurality of model groups existed in the model layer is described based on rules. For example with regards to a rule one specification includes an association with a plurality of design specifications although the one specification is produced but when the design specifications associated do not exist it is necessary to take some kind of action against the violation of rules. Also as one example with regards to a rule the D Case monitor node is associated with the results of these log verifications when the results of log verifications corresponding to the D Case monitor node do not exist a necessary action is activated as the violation of the rule. It is noted that this rule may be described with the D Script.

Similarly in this rule a rule regarding the time limitation on generation may be described. As one example when a rule it is necessary to generate this function by this time point is provided and when the function has not been generated by the time point a necessary action is activated as the violation of the rule. Furthermore in this rule a rule that a value possessed by the model is confirmed may be provided which is utilized in order to confirm the consistency between the models. These rule groups are generated on the assumption of the models.

The rule groups are recorded in a rule DB . The substance of the rule DB exists in the document DB of the database layer . A model monitoring monitors events such as the addition modification and deletion of the model to the model DB transmits a pair of model and rule to a model rule processing in a case when the event group occurs and executes the rule. The result of rule determination is recorded in a rule determination result DB . The substance of the rule determination result DB exists in the document DB of the database layer . The model rule processing may obtain a related result from the rule determination result DB in the course of processing as needed. A determination result monitoring monitors the rule determination result DB and notifies the tool group of the fundamental tool layer of the determination result. The model monitoring the model rule processing and the determination result monitoring are managed by the monitoring node tool and executed in the model layer .

In the example of the implementation in the consensus building model subject to be agreed place that defines the relation among the stakeholders and agreement status therein are defined as models. It is noted that all the deliverables outcome to be agreed among the stakeholders such as documents programs and scripts are assumed as subject to be agreed.

In the Toulmin model claim rebuttal the relation of support and necessary action are defined as edges in accordance with the above mentioned model in .

In the meeting model the relation between the topics for discussion as well as the participants is defined. Each argument includes the progress of proceedings the subject of an argument claim against the subject claim that supports claim claim that disputes claim a chain of statements against claim and the agreement expression with respect to the subject. The meeting model is a model regarding an application and depends on the model in the lower layer. It is noted that these models may be made up of another model and can be replaced.

In the general purpose basic data model the description the relation of statements files reference and replacement have been defined. An organization model represents the relation of resources and organization but in the example of the implementation only the models regarding persons have been defined. Utilities required for these layers are provided from a common framework and the agreement graph is recorded in a graph database through a graph framework . In the example of the implementation open source TinkerPop http tinkerpop.com is adopted as the graph framework and open source Neo4j http neo4j.org is adopted as a graph database . Also Play Framework http www.playframework.org is adopted as an application server . The Play Framework includes a plug in mechanism module so that a connection unit between the model group and the graph database is implemented as a module of the Play Framework and a consensus building support tool is implemented as a Play application. Accordingly in the model layer is provided up to the Play Framework.

The consensus building support tool provides a support for consensus building through the argument regarding the ordinary operation state of the target system. The argument and an agreement document document required for the argument are targeted by the consensus building support tool . When the consensus building support tool is used in the software development process of a computer system a program code is assumed as the agreement document . However besides the computer system the consensus building support tool can be applied otherwise and can be applied to the meeting of a company a general meeting of stockholders a student council at school and the like.

Then the consensus building support tool generates the agreement graph as a graph that expresses the model instance of an agreement target model . This agreement graph is history obtained in the course of consensus building. This agreement graph is recorded in the database layer .

The monitoring node tool detects a deviation from the ordinary operation state of the target system based on the actual operation state of the target system and the agreement graph . The actual operation state of the target system is displayed as a monitor target model . The actual systems such as servers and embedded systems are targeted by the monitoring node tool . A monitor script is illustrated as a script used in the monitor target model .

The contract generating tool extracts a contract model as one of information data regarding the consensus building based on the agreement graph . A contract is generated in accordance with the contract model . Herein the example is illustrated wherein the contract is generated as one of information data regarding the consensus building but another information data may be generated. For example when the deviation from the ordinary operation state of the target system is detected by the monitoring node tool the contract generating tool generates information data upon the deviation as a trigger.

The consensus building is performed through the argument regarding the ordinary operation state of the target system Step S . The consensus building support tool is used for the consensus building. History that is obtained in the process of the consensus building is recorded in the database layer as the agreement graph Step S .

The actual operation state of the target system is monitored at all times. The monitoring node tool refers to the actual operation state of the target system and the agreement graph thereby monitoring whether or not there occurs the deviation from the ordinary operation state of the target system. Then when the deviation from the ordinary operation state is detected Step S Yes the information data regarding the consensus building is extracted from the agreement graph Step S . As the information data regarding the consensus building for example the above described contract is assumed.

Thus according to the embodiments of the present invention the history that is obtained in the process of the consensus building through the argument regarding the ordinary operation state of the target system is recorded as the agreement graph and the operation state of the target system is monitored based on the agreement graph thereby extracting the information data regarding the consensus building.

It is noted that the above described embodiments are illustrated as one example in order to embody the present invention and there is the correlation between matters in the embodiments and specific matters of the claims of the present invention. However the present invention is not limited to the embodiments but can be embodied by applying various modifications to the embodiments without departing from the scope of the gist.

