---

title: Dual mode scavenge scoop
abstract: A system for removing oil from a bearing compartment has a port connected to an end wall of the compartment through which the oil exits the compartment, a scavenge scoop connected to the port for collecting the oil, and a separation device connected to the scavenge scoop for creating an oil collection region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08727628&OS=08727628&RS=08727628
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08727628
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120918
---
The instant application is a divisional patent application of allowed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 540 111 filed Sep. 28 2006 entitled DUAL MODE SCAVENGE SCOOP.

The Government of the United States of America may have rights in the present invention as a result of Contract No. N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Navy.

A typical engine bearing compartment is provided with oil through jets for the purpose of bearing lubrication and compartment cooling. A sealing airflow is provided in an upstream cavity and enters the bearing compartment through holes inside a rotating disc. Additional seal airflows are provided to the seals and prevent oil leakage out of the compartment s outer and inner rotor stator interface.

In general air and oil flows mix inside bearing compartments and generate a high velocity swirling flow pattern that forms a liquid wall film along the internal compartment walls. In the case of an oil film flow along a rotating wall the oil film will be pumped by the centrifugal acceleration to the free end of the shaft where it will separate disintegrate into droplets and flow radially outwards until it coalesces on another surface. In the case of oil coalescence on a stationary surface superimposed effects of interfacial shear and gravitational forces will dominate the oil film motion. In any bearing compartment cavity with rotating inner shaft and stationary outer wall at some circumferential position downstream of bottom dead center BDC the oil film flow along the stationary wall will be exposed to counter current effects of interfacial shear and gravitation. Gravitational forces tend to pull the oil film toward BDC whereas interfacial shear tries to push the oil away from BDC. In addition high interfacial shear will destabilize the liquid wall film flow and tends to entrain oil into the air stream. As a result airflows that are supposed to be discharged through breather pipe s out of the bearing compartment always carry a certain amount of oil with them. In order to manage air and oil flows through bearing compartments efficiently i.e. to maintain a positive seal pressure differential to prevent oil leakage and to minimize oil consumption and breather mist generation low breather pipe oil content is desirable especially at sub idle and idle operation of the engine.

Thus the bearing compartment has to be designed such that mixing air and oil is minimized. One element in achieving low breather pipe oil content is to reduce the residence time of the oil inside the bearing compartment by providing efficient means of scavenging the oil and therefore minimizing the amount of oil that is exposed to the destabilizing effect of interfacial shear stresses.

A typical tangential scavenge port has scavenge scoops which are intended to discharge mainly oil and are usually located at or close to BDC. It is recognized however that due to strong air oil interactions inside the bearing compartment cavities oil film flows along the stationary surfaces usually contain significant air inclusion bubbles and a foamy air oil layer close to the gas liquid interface. The air content in the liquid film flow tends to increase flow area requirements for efficient discharge.

In order to connect the scavenge port with the plumbing of the lubrication system the designer faces the challenge of providing means of directing a two phase air oil mixture with high circumferential flow velocity and significant velocity differences between both media into an axial or radial flow direction. In order to direct the swirling bearing compartment two phase air oil mixture from a circumferential to an axial or radial exit pipe flow direction current systems use tangential scoops that capture as much of the bearing cavity width as possible and transition into an integrated 90 degree bend that connects to the exit pipe. Due to minimum length requirements for the 90 degree bend scavenge ports of this kind have an inlet plane that has to be located several degrees upstream of BDC. Oil that is provided to the bearing compartment cavity downstream of this inlet plane has to be carried by interfacial shear forces around the compartment and across Top Dead Center TDC until it can reach the inlet plane or it will collect in the bottom of the cavity. The former is usually achieved at high power settings the latter is the dominant flow pattern at low power settings such as motoring windmilling or idle.

Since oil must be discharged efficiently at both low and high power regimes the single scavenge port must be compromised slightly to work in both conditions. In some applications two scavenge ports are used to capture oil at low power and high power. Because the fluid within the compartment is two phase air oil the two scavenge ports must be connected to separate pump stages to avoid loss of prime in the pump. If two scavenge ports are connected to a single pump stage there is a propensity to scavenge only the lower density air allowing the oil to puddle up within the compartment create significant heat generation and greatly increase the risk of oil leakage. It is therefore desirable to have a highly efficient scavenge port that works at low and high power with only a single pump stage which is obviously lower in density and cost.

In order to allow drainage of oil that is not captured by the tangential scoop and collects in the sump of the compartment drain holes are integrated into the tangential scoop bend arrangement at BDC. This arrangement works satisfactorily for certain minimum compartment sump dimensions radial distance between rotating shaft and outer stationary wall and moderate rotational speeds. However as size constraints for engine cores become more severe and engine speeds increase limitations of this type of scavenge port arrangement become apparent especially for cases where the compartment height approached the exit pipe diameter which means that the tangential inlet scoop blocks the whole radial depth of the cavity. This blockage results in a severe reduction of interfacial shear which would be required at high levels in order to drive all oil across TDC. The impact of these limitations depends strongly on the oil flow distribution at low power settings. As the size of the sump region decreases the distance between the compartment seals and the free surface of the oil pool decreases increasing the risk of oil leakage. This phenomenon is aggravated by the fact that the interfacial shear acting on the gas liquid interface pushes oil away from the drain at BDC forming a large recirculation zone several degrees downstream of BDC. This recirculation zone tends to contaminate the seals and causes oil leakage out of the compartment.

In accordance with the present invention a system for removing oil from a bearing compartment is provided. The system broadly comprises a port connected to an end wall of the compartment through which the oil exits the compartment a scavenge scoop connected to the port for collecting oil and a separation device connected to the scavenge scoop for creating an oil collection region.

Further in accordance with the present invention a bearing compartment is provided. The bearing compartment broadly comprises a bearing means for introducing an airflow into the compartment means for introducing a flow of oil into the compartment to lubricate the bearing and cool the compartment means for introducing an airflow into said compartment to reduce the leakage of any oil from the compartment and means for removing the oil from the compartment. The oil removing means comprises a port connected to an end wall of the compartment through which the oil exits the compartment a scavenge scoop connected to the port for collecting oil and a separation device connected to the scavenge scoop for creating an oil collection region.

Other details of the dual mode scavenge scoop of the present invention as well as other objects and advantages attendant thereto are set forth in the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals depict like elements.

Referring now to there is shown a bearing compartment for an engine. At one end of the compartment there is a rotating disk and an upstream cavity . Sealing airflow is provided to the upstream cavity via the buffer port and a suitable conduit or piping system. The sealing airflow enters the bearing compartment through holes inside the rotating disk . Additional seal airflows are provided to the seals and to prevent oil leakage out of the compartment s outer and inner rotor stator interfaces and .

The compartment contains one or more bearings . Oil is provided through the oil supply nozzle for the purpose of bearing lubrication and compartment cooling. In general air and oil flows mix inside the bearing compartment and generates a high velocity swirling flow pattern that forms a liquid wall film along the internal compartment walls. In the case of an oil film flow along a rotating wall the oil film will be pumped by the centrifugal acceleration to the free end of the shaft where it will separate disintegrate into droplets and flow radially outwards until it coalesces on another surface. As noted before in the case of oil coalescence on a stationary surface superimposed effects of interfacial shear and gravitational forces will dominate the oil film motion.

The compartment is provided with one or more breather ports through which an air oil mist is carried out of the compartment . The compartment is also provided with a scavenge port through which oil is carried out of the compartment.

Referring now to there is shown a first embodiment of a tangential scavenge scoop in accordance with the present invention. As can be seen from this figure the scavenge scoop has a first wall which extends into the scavenge port and a second wall at an angle to the first wall . A separation wall is connected to the scavenge scoop at the second wall to create a settling cavity or sump region with the compartment end wall . If desired the separation wall may be integrally formed with the second wall of the scavenge scoop . The separation wall serves to shield the settling cavity or sump region against the rotor. As can be seen from this figure the settling cavity or sump region connects directly into the exit pipe of the scavenge port . As can be seen from this figure half of the diameter of the exit pipe has been dedicated to the downstream portion of the sump where as the other half is still sufficient to process the upstream air oil mixture that is captured by the tangential scavenge scoop . The separation wall is advantageous in that it reduces the size of any recirculation zone and maintains it substantially within the sump region .

Referring now to there is shown an alternative embodiment of the present invention. In this embodiment the tangential scavenge scoop has a first wall which does not extend into the exit pipe and a second wall . The first wall terminates at an end which is at a distance from the entrance of the exit pipe . A baffle is mounted to the compartment end wall just upstream of the entrance to the exit pipe to create a small recirculation region . In this way excessive scavenge inlet pressure losses that may be expected from a cross flow of oil may be avoided. As before the settling cavity or sump region created by the separation wall connects directly into the exit pipe of the scavenge port . The exit pipe also receives the upstream air oil mixture that is captured by the tangential scavenge scoop .

Referring now to there is shown the results of a test where the embodiments shown in Modifications B and C respectively were compared to a tangential scavenge scoop arrangement without the separation wall Modification A . It can be seen from this figure that the breather oil flow rate for the modifications B and C shaded area is at a very desirable level of less than 2 of the total whereas the breather oil flow rate for modification A as a function of oil flow increases above 2 of the total as oil flow increases. It also has been found that the relative breather oil flow rate for modifications B and C is independent of total oil which indicates sufficient scavenging capacity.

The dual mode oil scavenge scoop of the present invention is a novel solution in that the single scavenge port works well on both high and low power regimes. As used herein the terms high and low power regimes are primarily characterized by the rotational speed of the rotor. The rotor imposes an interfacial shear on the liquid wall film and therefore drives the oil film in circumferential rotational direction. Depending on the location around the circumference gravitational forces may assist or counteract that driving force. If one envisions a situation where the oil film would have to flow uphill it takes a significant interfacial shear to overcome gravitation forces that want to keep the oil at the bottom. In this sense a high power setting is one that imposes enough interfacial shear to drive all the oil over top dead center.

The dual mode scavenge scoop of the present invention offers significant cost and weight benefits to more conventional solutions and is therefore desirable for aircraft applications.

If desired two scavenge lines and pump stages can be added to capture the oil and all operating conditions.

It is apparent that there has been provided in accordance with the present invention a dual mode scavenge scoop which fully satisfies the objects means and advantages set forth hereinbefore. While the present invention has been described in the context of specific embodiments thereof other unforeseen alternatives modifications and variations may become apparent to those skilled in the art having read the foregoing description. Accordingly it is intended to embrace those alternatives modifications and variations as fall within the broad scope of the appended claims.

