---

title: Systems and methods to process donations
abstract: Systems and methods are provided to facilitate donations via mobile communications. In one aspect, a system includes a data storage facility and an interchange having a common format processor and a plurality of converters to interface with a plurality of different controllers of mobile communications. The converters are configured to communicate with the controllers in different formats and with the common format processor in a common format. For a payment to a merchant, the common format processor provides a user interface configured to present charity donation options in response to a phone number being specified in the user interface to identify a fund source. The common format processor uses one of the converters to communicate with a mobile phone at the phone number to confirm the payment to the merchant and a donation to a separate charity organization specified via the user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09191217&OS=09191217&RS=09191217
owner: Boku, Inc.
number: 09191217
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120430
---
This nonprovisional application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 480 319 filed on Apr. 28 2011 all of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

At least some embodiments of the disclosure relate to mobile communications in general and more particularly but not limited to mobile communications to facilitate online transactions.

Short Message Service SMS is a communications protocol that allows the interchange of short text messages between mobile telephone devices. SMS messages are typically sent via a Short Message Service Center SMSC of a mobile carrier which uses a store and forward mechanism to deliver the messages. When a mobile telephone is not reachable immediately for the delivery of the message the SMSC stores the message for later retry.

SMS messages can be sent via gateways. Some gateways function as aggregators. An aggregator typically does not have the capacity to deliver the messages directly to the mobile phones. An aggregator typically interfaces with and relies upon the SMSC of a mobile carrier to deliver SMS messages.

Some gateways function as providers that are capable of sending text messages to mobile devices directly without going through the SMSC of other mobile operators.

Text messaging between mobile telephones can also be performed using other protocols such as SkyMail and Short Mail in Japan.

Some mobile carriers provide email gateway services to allow text messages to be sent to mobile phones via email. For example a non subscriber of the mobile carrier may send a message to an email address associated with a mobile phone of a subscriber of the mobile carrier to have the message delivered to the mobile phone via text messaging.

Emails can also be sent to mobile telephone devices via standard mail protocols such as Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP over Internet Protocol Suite commonly TCP IP named from two of the protocols the Transmission Control Protocol TCP and the Internet Protocol IP .

Short messages may be used to provide premium services to mobile phones such as news alerts ring tones etc. The premium content providers may send the messages to the SMSC of the mobile operator using a TCP IP protocol such as Short Message Peer to peer Protocol SMPP or Hypertext Transfer Protocol for delivery to a mobile phone and the mobile phone is billed by the mobile operator for the cost of receiving the premium content.

Premium services may also be delivered via text messages initiated from the mobile phone. For example a televoting service provider may obtain a short code to receive text messages from mobile phones and when the user sends a text message to the short code the mobile carrier routes the message to the televoting service provider and charges the user a fee a portion of which is collected for the televoting service provider.

Systems and methods are provided to facilitate donations via mobile communications. Some embodiments are summarized in this section.

In one aspect a system includes a data storage facility configured to store charity preferences of users of phone numbers and an interchange coupled with the data storage facility. The interchange includes a common format processor and a plurality of converters to interface with a plurality of different controllers of mobile communications. The converters are configured to communicate with the controllers in different formats and the converters are configured to communicate with the common format processor in a common format.

In one embodiment the common format processor is configured to provide a user interface to a user of a phone number for a payment to a merchant the user interface configured to present charity donation options according to a charity preference of the user in response to the phone number being specified in the user interface. In response to a request received in the user interface identifying a charity organization the common format processor uses one of the converters to communicate with a mobile phone at the phone number to confirm the payment to the merchant and a donation to the charity organization. In one embodiment the common format processor is further configured to use the one of the plurality of converters to transmit premium messages to the mobile phone at the phone number to collect funds for the payment and the donation.

In another aspect a method performed by a computing device includes providing a user interface to a user for a payment to a merchant in response to the user visiting a website of the merchant to make a purchase where the user interface is configured to receive a phone number of the user to identify a source of funds for the payment and configured to receive an optional identification of a charity organization receiving a request via the user interface where the request includes the phone number and the identification of the charity organization in response to the request communicating with a mobile phone at the phone number for a confirmation of the request in response to the confirmation billing a fund source associated with the phone number to collect funds for the payment to the merchant and a donation to the charity organization and notifying the merchant of a status of the billing of the funding source for the payment.

The disclosure includes methods and apparatuses which perform these methods including data processing systems which perform these methods and computer readable media containing instructions which when executed on data processing systems cause the systems to perform these methods.

Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description which follows.

The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure are not necessarily references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

In one embodiment an interchange is used to interface with a plurality of different controllers of mobile communications such as SMS messages. The interchange can be used to associate account information with phone numbers to facilitate electronic payments via mobile devices such as cellular phones. The interchange is configured to communicate with the mobile phones through the different controllers to provide security and convenience for online transactions.

In a data storage facility stores user account information and the corresponding phone numbers of the mobile phones . The interchange is coupled with the data storage facility to communicate with the mobile phones at the corresponding phone numbers to confirm operations that are performed using the account information . Since the account information is secured by the interchange the account information can be used to pay for products and services offered by the servers of various merchants without being revealed to the merchants.

In one embodiment the server offers products and or services adapted for a virtual world environment such as an online game environment a virtual reality environment etc. The products may be virtual goods which can be delivered via the transmission of data or information without having to physically deliver an object to the user . For example the virtual goods may be a song a piece of music a video clip an article a computer program a decorative item for an avatar a piece of virtual land in a virtual world a virtual object in a virtual reality world etc. For example an online game environment hosted on a server may sell services and products via points or virtual currency which may be consumed by the user while engaging in a game session. For example a virtual reality world hosted on a server may have a virtual currency which may be used by the residents of the virtual reality world to conduct virtual commerce within the virtual reality world e.g. buy virtual lands virtual stocks virtual objects services provided in the virtual reality world etc . In other embodiments the server may also offer physical goods such as books compact discs photo prints postcards etc.

In the interchange may communicate with different controllers of mobile communications via different networks e.g. and and or protocols. The interchange processes the requests in a common format and uses a set of converters for communications with the different controllers respectively.

For example the controllers may be different aggregators providers and or SMSCs of different mobile carriers. Based on the phone numbers the interchange interfaces with the corresponding controllers to communicate with the mobile phones via text messaging to confirm the operations related to the corresponding account information such as bank accounts credit card numbers charge card numbers etc.

In the user terminals may use a unified interface to send requests to the interchange . For example a website of the interchange may be used to receive the account information from the web browsers running in the user terminals . The user terminals are typically different from the mobile phones . However in some embodiments users may use the mobile phone to access the web and submit the account information . Alternatively the users may use the mobile phone to submit the account information to the interchange via text messaging email instant messaging etc.

The use of the mobile phones in the confirmation of activities that involve the account information increases the security of the transaction since the mobile phones are typically secured in the possession of the users.

Further in one embodiment the interchange may use the phone bills of the mobile phones to pay for purchases in order to use the account information to pay for the phone bills and or to deposit funds into the accounts identified by the account information by charging on the phone bills of the corresponding mobile phones . In some embodiments the accounts identified by the account information are hosted on the data storage facility . In other embodiments the accounts are hosted on the account servers of financial institutions such as banks credit unions credit card companies etc.

In one embodiment once the account information is associated with the mobile phones via their phone numbers stored in the data storage facility the users may use the user terminals to access online servers of various merchants or service providers to make purchases. From the user terminals the users can use the accounts identified by the account information to make the payment for the purchases without revealing their account information to the operators of the servers .

In one embodiment the mobile phones are used by the corresponding users to make payments and or manage funds such as for making purchases in various websites hosted on the servers of merchants and service providers and or for transferring funds to or from an account identified by the account information such as phone bills of land line telephone services credit card accounts debit card accounts bank accounts etc. or an account hosted on the data storage facility or telecommunication accounts of the mobile phones with telecommunication carriers. The mobile phones are used to confirm and or approve the transactions associated with the account identified by the account information or other accounts . The interchange interfaces the mobile phones and the servers to confirm and or approve transactions and to operate on the account identified by the account information and or other accounts associated with the phone number .

For example the user terminal may provide the phone numbers to the servers to allow the servers to charge the account identified by the account information associated with the phone number . The interchange sends a message to the mobile phone via the phone number to confirm the payment request. Once the payment is confirmed or approved via the corresponding mobile phone the interchange charges the account identified by the account information e.g. by communicating with the account server on which the corresponding accounts are hosted and pays the server on behalf of the user using the funds obtained from the corresponding account identified by the account information .

In one embodiment the user terminal may not even provide the phone number to the server to process the payment. The server may redirect a payment request to the interchange which then prompts the user terminal to provide the phone number to the website of the interchange to continue the payment process.

For example the server may redirect the payment request to the website of the interchange with a reference indicating the purchase made via the user terminal . The interchange can use the reference to subsequently complete the payment with the server for the purchase after receiving the phone number directly from the user terminal to confirm the payment via the mobile phone .

In some embodiments instead of directly providing the phone number to identify the account information the user may provide other information to identify the phone number such as an account identifier of the user assigned to the user for obtaining the services of the interchange .

In one embodiment the account information is pre associated with the phone number prior to the payment request. The account information may be submitted to the interchange via the user terminal or the mobile phone via a secure connection.

Alternatively the user may supply the account information to the interchange at the time the payment request is submitted from the user terminal to the interchange . Alternatively the user may supply the account information to the interchange at the time the user responds to the confirmation message for the payment request.

In some embodiments the user may supply the account information after a transaction using funds collected via the telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone at the phone number . For example after the transaction the interchange may send an invitation message such as a text message to the mobile phone at the phone number to the user to invite the user to register with the interchange and provide the account information . The user may register with the interchange via the mobile phone e.g. by a replying text message or via a web page of the interchange e.g. using a link and or a unique code provided in the invitation message .

After the user registers with the interchange e.g. via the mobile phone and by providing the account information the user may create a customized personal identification number PIN or receive a PIN for enhanced security. Using the PIN the user may use the account information to complete an online transaction without having to confirm and or approve a transaction using the mobile phone . In some embodiments the PIN may be used to reduce unwanted messages to the mobile phone . For example once the phone number and the account information are associated with a PIN the interchange may require the user of the user terminal to provide the correct PIN to initiate the payment process. Thus a spammer having only the phone number or a different user mistakenly using the phone number may not successfully use the user terminal to request the interchange to send confirmation messages to the mobile phone protected by the PIN. In some embodiments the interchange may offer further incentives to the user for registering with the interchange such as reduced fees discounts coupons free products and services etc.

In one embodiment once the account information is associated with the phone number in the data storage facility the user does not have to resubmit the account information in subsequent payment requests.

By delegating the payment task to the interchange and securing the account information in the data storage facility the system as shown in can increase the security of using the account information in an online environment.

In some embodiments the interchange can also fulfill the payment requests using the funds collected via the phone bill of the phone numbers . The interchange can collect the funds via sending premium messages to the mobile phones at the phone numbers after receiving confirmation from the mobile phone .

For example after the confirmation or approval message is received from the mobile phone the interchange performs operations to collect funds via the phone bill of the phone number . The interchange may calculate the required premium messages to bill to the mobile phone . For example mobile terminated premium SMS messages may have a predetermined set of prices for premium messages. The interchange determines a combination of the premium messages that has a price closest to the amount required by the transaction and sends this combination of premium messages to the mobile phone . For example mobile originated premium SMS messages may also have a predetermined set of prices for premium messages. The interchange can calculate the set of messages required for the transaction and transmit a text message to the mobile phone of the user to instruct the user to send the required number of premium messages to provide the funds.

In the interchange includes a common format processor which processes various payment options in a common format. In one embodiment the common format processor can handle the payments via mobile terminated text message mobile originated text message operator bill credit card stored value account and other online payment options. The common format processor determines the actual amount that is to be billed to the user based on the payment options e.g. mobile terminated premium SMS mobile originated premium SMS operator billing credit cards etc. and selects a converter to communicate with a corresponding controller .

Different converters are configured to communicate with corresponding controllers in different languages and protocols. The converters perform the translation between the common format used by the common format processor and the corresponding formats used by the controllers .

The use of the common format processor simplifies the structure of the interchange and reduces the development effort required for the interchange to interface with the increasing number of different controllers such as SMSC mobile providers aggregators gateways etc.

In one premium message billing method the interchange sends mobile terminated premium SMS messages to the mobile phone to bill the user or requests the mobile phone to send mobile originated premium SMS messages to a short code representing the interchange .

In one operator billing method the interchange directly sends a message to the mobile carrier of the mobile phone to bill the amount on the phone bill of the mobile phone without having to send a premium message to the mobile phone .

The common format processor includes a decision engine which decides how to generate a set of one or more messages to the mobile phone based on a set of rules regulations limits records and restrictions .

For example different countries have different regulations governing the mobile communications with the mobile phones . For example different mobile carriers have different rules regarding premium messages. For example past transaction records can be used to monitor the transactions to discover suspected fraudulent activities. For example parental limits and merchant restrictions can be imposed.

Based on results of the decision engine the mobile message generator generates one or more messages to communicate with the mobile phone about the transaction e.g. a request to collect funds via the phone bill of the user for a payment request or for deposit into an account identified by the account information . The converter then interfaces with the corresponding controller to transmit the messages to the mobile phones .

After the user provides the account information to the interchange for storage in the data storage facility the user can send a charge request to the server of a merchant from the user terminal . The server of the merchant can send or redirect the charge request to the interchange . In response to the charge request the interchange sends a confirmation message to the mobile phone . If the user sends an approval or an appropriate reply to the confirmation message from the mobile phone the interchange communicates with the account server to charge an account of the user identified by the account information without revealing the account information to the server . The interchange pays the merchant on behalf of the user using the funds collected via charging the account of the user. For example the interchange may use its own bank account to pay the merchant operating the server . Thus the financial information of the user is not revealed to the merchant.

Upon the completion of the payment process the interchange can notify the user via the mobile phone and or the user terminal .

In some embodiments the server of the merchant redirects the charge request to allow the user terminal to communicate with the interchange to continue the payment process and the user terminal may provide the account information directly to the interchange after the charge request is redirected.

In alternative embodiments the user may provide the account information from the mobile phone together with the approval of the charge request.

In one embodiment the interchange communicates with the mobile phone for the confirmation of the charge request via SMS messages. Alternatively the confirmation and approval messages can be sent via emails instant messages voice message live calls from operators etc.

In some embodiments the user of the mobile phone may choose to fulfill the charge request via the phone bill instead of charging the account identified by the account information . Thus after the confirmation the interchange sends the premium messages to the mobile phone to collect funds via the phone bill of the mobile phone . In other embodiments the interchange may send an instruction with the confirmation message to the mobile phone to instruct the user to send mobile originated premium messages to the interchange to collect the funds via the phone bill of the mobile phone .

In the user interface further includes an option list which allows the user to select various types of accounts such as credit card accounts bank accounts charge card accounts etc. In the example illustrated in the checkbox is selected to specify a credit card account.

In some embodiments the user interface may further present a text field not shown in to allow the user to specify an alias for the account information supplied in the text input field . For enhanced security the alias can be used for subsequent communications with the user without revealing the account information .

In the user interface may be presented via a web browser or a custom application to submit account information in the text input field from a user terminal to the interchange . Alternatively the account number can be submitted from the mobile phone via a message sent via SMS WAP voice mail or via an interactive voice response IVR system.

In one embodiment the messages and are transmitted to the mobile phone via a short message service SMS . Alternatively the messages can be transmitted to the mobile phone via other protocols such as multimedia message service MMS email instant messaging WAP voice mail voice messages via an interactive voice response IVR system etc.

In one embodiment after the user selects the payment option the server directs the request to the web server of the interchange with a set of parameters to indicate the amount the identity of the merchant a reference to the purchase etc. Thus the user does not have to provide any personal information to the server of the merchant to complete the payment process.

Alternatively the user may provide the phone number to the merchant to process the payment. Thus the user does not have to visit the website of the interchange to complete the payment.

In one embodiment the server presents the payment option via an online shopping cart system or a third party checkout system. Alternatively or in combination the server presents the payment option via a web widget. For example a web widget may include a program code that is portable and executable within a web page without requiring additional compilation. The web widget allows the user to select the option to pay for the product and or service without leaving the web page or refreshing the web page. In one embodiment the interchange provides the web widget to facilitate the payment processing.

Further user authentication may be used to reduce false messages to the phone number . For example the user interface may request a PIN for enhanced security. For example the user may be required to register with the interchange prior to using the services of the interchange and after registering with the interchange the user is provided with the PIN or can created a customized PIN to access the functionality provided by the user interface .

Alternatively the user interface may request an identifier associated with the phone number to initiate the payment transaction. In some embodiments the user interface requires the user to provide no information other than the phone number in the text field to initiate the transaction.

In the user interface allows the user to select one option from a plurality of payment options including paying via the phone bill and paying via one or more of the accounts identified by the account information associated with the phone number in the data storage facility .

In some embodiments the user interface may present the payment options after authenticating the user e.g. via a personal identification number or password for enhanced security.

In some embodiments the user interface identifies the different accounts represented by the account information by showing aliases of the accounts. The aliases may be previously specified by the user or be dynamically generated by the interchange based on the types of the accounts and or portions of the account information e.g. the first or last few digits of the account number etc. 

In one embodiment once the user submits the payment request via the user interface the interchange transmits a confirmation message to the mobile phone according to the phone number provided in the text field . In one embodiment the interchange transmits the confirmation to the mobile phone after the user is authenticated via the user interface to reduce the possibility of unauthorized unwelcome messages to the mobile phone which may occur when the user intentionally or unintentionally provides an unrelated phone number in the entry box .

In one embodiment the confirmation message includes the instruction to reply with a code such as a code e.g. pay provided in the confirmation message as illustrated in .

The presence of the code in the reply message is an indication of the user approving the request and the requirement for such a code in the reply eliminates false confirmations e.g. generated via accidental replies or automated replies .

Alternatively or in combination the requested code may include a PIN associated with the account and or a code not shown randomly generated and presented in the user interface used to initiate the payment transaction e.g. user interface .

In some embodiments the code requested in the text message may be a personal identification number PIN associated with the phone number . The text message does not include the code and the knowledge of the code is an indication of the identity of the user. Thus the use of such a code increases the security of the transaction.

In a further embodiment the code requested in the text message includes a code that is provided in response to the payment request e.g. via the user interface not shown in . The code may be generated randomly at the time the request is received via the user interface or when the user interface is presented to the user. The code provided to the user interface can be requested in the reply received from the user interface to indicate that the user who is in possession of the mobile phone has actual knowledge about the payment request submitted via the user interface .

After the correct reply is received the interchange communicates with the account server to electronically charge the user using the account information and pays the payee using the funds collected via communicating with the account server . The interchange then notifies the user when the payment transaction is complete.

For example the interchange may notify the user via a text message to the mobile phone as illustrated in . illustrates a user interface to confirm the completion of a payment transaction according to one embodiment. No reply to the message that confirms the completion of the payment transaction is necessary. Once the payment transaction is complete the user would have access to the product purchased via the payment transaction.

In one embodiment the interchange stores an address of the user associated with the phone number . After the completion of the payment transaction the interchange provides the address to the server of the merchant for the delivery of the purchased product. In some embodiments the user may provide multiple addresses associated with the phone number and may select one as a delivery address in the confirmation approve message to the interchange . Alternatively the interchange may receive an address for product delivery from the mobile phone together with the confirmation approve message and then forward the address to the server of the merchant. Thus the shipping address of the transaction is verified to be associated with the mobile phone . In alternative embodiments the user may directly provide the shipping address in the website hosted on the server of the merchant.

In other embodiments the user is provided with the options to pay via the mobile phone bill associated with the phone number . The interchange may dynamically calculate a set of premium messages based on a set of limited number of predetermined prices for premium messages to match the purchase price. The interchange sends the set of premium messages to the mobile phone at the phone number to collect the funds via the telecommunication carriers to pay for the purchases. Thus the purchase prices are not limited to the set of predetermined prices for premium messages. In some embodiments the interchange may send the set of premium messages in a period of time e.g. a week a month a number of mouths etc. to spread the payments over the period of time e.g. to overcome budget limits and or limits imposed by regulations .

In one embodiment the user is required to provide the approval in response to the confirmation message as illustrated in within a predetermined period of time. If the user fails to provide the approval from the mobile phone within the predetermined period of time the payment request may be rejected and the user interface may present a message indicating the failure and then redirect the user back to the website of the payee.

In some embodiments instead of redirecting the user back to the website of the payee after the expiration of a predetermined period of time e.g. after the failure of the payment process or after the completion of the payment the user interface may provide a link to the website of the payee to allow the user to manually select the link to go back to the website of the payee to continue the process at the website of the payee.

In the user may reply with the code 1 to approve the payment request and to pay via the phone bill of the mobile phone . Alternatively the user may reply with the credit card information to charge the payment to a credit card as illustrated in .

In one embodiment if the user provides credit card account information in the approval message the credit card account information is stored and associated with the phone number in the data storage facility . Thus in subsequent approval messages the user does not have to supply the same information again.

For example the data storage facility may store account information for each of a plurality of account types e.g. Visa MasterCard checking savings etc. Thus each of the accounts can be identified to the user via the account type in the confirmation message without revealing the details of the account information.

For example the interchange may combine the name of the financial institutions and the type of accounts to generate aliases for the account information.

In some embodiment the user may define the aliases for the account information by supplying the aliases with the account information for association with the phone number .

After receiving a confirmation or approval from the mobile phone for the payment the interchange electronically charges the user an amount using the account identifier e.g. via communicating with the account server using the account identifier . The interchange then transfers the amount to a payee to fulfill the payment.

After the interchange receives a confirmation with an account identifier e.g. from the mobile phone for the request the interchange electronically communicates with a financial institution to charge the user the specified amount using the account identifier. The interchange pays the payee according to the amount optionally charges the user a first fee to pay the payee and optionally charges the payee a second fee for processing the payment.

In one embodiment the users are given an incentive to provide the account information for electronic payments via the account servers . For example the interchange may charge a lower fee for fulfilling payment requests via the account server than for fulfilling payments requests via the phone bill. For example the interchange may offer rebates discounts etc. to the users who provide the account information . In some embodiments the interchange can complete a payment process via the account server with fewer restrictions than via the phone bill.

In one embodiment the merchant may specify the second fee. Different merchants may offer different percentages of the purchase prices as the second fee and the interchange may calculate the first fee based on the second fee offered by the merchant by deducting the second fee from the total fees to be charged e.g. fees charged by the telecommunication carrier for collecting the funds via the mobile phone bill associated with the telephone number and or the fees charged by the interchange for processing the payments . Since the first fee is charged to the customer e.g. the purchaser of products and services the cost to the customer can vary based on the selection of the merchant. For the same purchase prices the first fee and thus the cost to the customer may be different for purchases made via different merchants because the merchants may offer different percentage of the purchase price as the second fee. In some embodiments the first and second fees include both fees charged by the telecommunication carrier for collecting the funds via the mobile phone bill account associated with the phone number and the fees charged by the interchange for processing the payments. In some embodiments the first fee includes the fees charged by the telecommunication carrier but no fees charged by the interchange . In some embodiments the second fee includes the fees charged by the telecommunication carrier but no fees charged by the interchange . In some embodiments the first fee and or the second fee do not include the fees charged by the telecommunication carrier. In some embodiments the first fee is not charged and in other embodiments the second fee is not charged.

In one embodiment a personal identification number PIN is used in the confirmation of a transaction. The PIN may be stored in the user account hosted on the data storage facility of the interchange and be associated with the phone number and or the account information . For example a user requesting a transaction using the funds associated with the phone number may be required by the interchange to present the correct PIN associated with the phone number .

In some embodiments the PIN may be the same as a PIN used by a third party to control access to products and or services for the user having the phone number . For example the PIN for accessing the voice mail of the phone number can be used by the interchange to verify the identity of the user who attempts to use the funds associated with the phone number . For example the interchange may receive a PIN from the user and communicate with a telecommunication carrier of the phone number to verify whether the received PIN is a correct PIN for accessing the voice mail of the phone number .

In some embodiments a correct PIN is stored on the mobile phone to control access to the services of the interchange . For example an application running on the mobile phone may prompt the user to provide a PIN and check the PIN received from the user against the correct PIN stored on the mobile phone to determine whether the user is authorized to use the mobile phone to access the services of the interchange . In some embodiments the PIN is specific for the control of access to the services of the interchange . Without the PIN the user may use other functions of the mobile phone such as making phone calls sending emails or text messages etc. When it is determined that the user is authorized to use services of the interchange via the mobile phone the application allows the user to send a confirmation message to the interchange to confirm a transaction or to display a code received from the interchange for the confirmation of the transaction via presenting the code in a web page of the interchange .

In some embodiments the interchange requires the user to provide the PIN associated with the phone number via the mobile phone at the phone number to confirm a transaction. The user may provide the PIN to the mobile phone which transmits the received PIN to the interchange for verification. The user may provide the PIN in response to a message from the interchange to the mobile phone at the phone number or in response to the interchange presenting a request on the user terminal to request the user to send to the interchange a confirmation message from the mobile phone at the phone number . Alternatively the user may provide the correct PIN in the user terminal to obtain a confirmation code which is to be transmitted from the mobile phone at the phone number to confirm the transaction.

In some embodiments the user may provide the correct combination of the PIN and the phone number to the user terminal to request a transaction without the need to further confirm the request via the mobile phone .

In one embodiment to further improve security the communications from the mobile phone at the phone number further include an identification number stored on the mobile phone e.g. in an integrated circuit IC chip . For example a software program e.g. a Java application can be used to read a hardware identification number from the IC chip of the mobile phone and transmit a confirmation message including the hardware identification to indicate that the message is indeed from a mobile phone registered with the user.

In one embodiment the International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI of the mobile phone is used as the hardware identification number. Alternatively a hardware identification number may be assigned to and stored into the mobile phone when the mobile phone is initially configured for the services of the interchange e.g. when the application is installed on the mobile phone .

In one embodiment when the mobile phone at the phone number is registered for the services of the interchange a software application is installed and or configured on the mobile phone . The software application can be implemented using Java programming language in one embodiment. Other programming languages can also be used. Further in some embodiments the application can be implemented via hardware circuits such as Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or a combination of special purpose hardware circuits and instructions.

In one embodiment the application is configured on the mobile phone to present a user interface to confirm a transaction according to one embodiment as illustrated in . In the application communicates with the interchange to present information that identifies aspects of the transaction such as the payee the amount involved in the transaction a description of the product or service in the transaction etc.

In the user interface includes an entry box to receive a PIN from the user. When the PIN received in the user interface is invalid the user interface may reject the input and prevent the user from sending the confirmation message via the user interface .

Alternatively the user interface may accept the user input without checking the input for validity and transmit the confirmation with the received PIN to the interchange . The interchange then checks the received PIN for validity. If the interchange determines that the received PIN is valid for the phone number of the mobile phone the interchange accepts the confirmation and performs the requested transaction. If the interchange determines that the received PIN is invalid the user interface may prompt the user to re enter the PIN.

In some embodiments the user interface and or the interchange may prevent the user from using the user interface after the user fails to provide the correct PIN after a predetermined number of attempts.

In the user interface further includes an entry box for the user to enter a code that represents the transaction. For example when the user uses the user terminal to submit a transaction request e.g. via a web browser the interchange provides the code as an identifier of the transaction.

In one embodiment after the user enters the code in the entry box the application running the user interface communicates with the interchange to obtain the information about the transaction such as the payee the amount of the transaction a description etc. Thus providing the code in the entry box allows the user to see in the user interface the information specific to the transaction for the confirmation of the correct transaction.

In one embodiment the code is a one time code which expires after the code is submitted to the interchange . To improve security the interchange may cause the one time code to expire after a predetermined period of time from when the one time code is provided by the interchange to the user. When the one time code or the PIN is incorrect the interchange rejects the confirmation. After an incorrect combination of the PIN and the one time code is received the interchange may cause the one time code to expire and the user is prompted to resubmit the transaction request to obtain a new one time code.

In some embodiments the interchange may allow the user interface to resubmit the input for the PIN a number of times if the one time code is valid. For example the user interface may be presented in response to a message from the interchange requesting the confirmation of the transaction. The one time code is required in the entry box to ensure that the user has knowledge about the transaction submitted via the user terminal . The PIN is required in the entry box to ensure that the user is authorized. In some embodiments the one time code is optional.

In some embodiments the interchange provides the one time code to the user via the user interface . The application may send the one time code back to the interchange to identify the transaction being confirmed by the user.

Alternatively the interchange may require the user to provide the one time code back to the interchange via the user terminal that submits the corresponding transaction request. After the one time code shown in the user interface on the mobile device is transmitted from the user terminal to the web server of the interchange the transaction is confirmed with the interchange .

In one embodiment the PIN is used to protect access to the one time code . The user interface is configured to display the one time code after the user enters the correct PIN in the entry box . If the user fails to enter the correct PIN in the entry box the user interface does not display the one time code which is required in the user terminal to confirm the transaction.

In one embodiment the code is a one time password which is generated on the mobile phone . The one time password is provided to the interchange to confirm the transaction e.g. via the mobile phone communicating with the interchange or via the user terminal communicating with the interchange .

In one embodiment the one time password is generated on the mobile phone after the request for the transaction is submitted to the interchange via the user terminal . The one time password is not received in the mobile phone from the interchange as a result of the transaction request. In one embodiment the one time password is generated based at least in part on a seed that is configured in the mobile phone prior to the transaction.

In one embodiment the one time password is generated on the mobile phone after the PIN is verified in the entry box . If the PIN entered in the entry box is invalid the mobile phone does not generate the one time password.

In one embodiment the user is instructed to use the one time password to authenticate with the interchange using the user terminal that submits the request for the transaction. Alternatively the mobile phone may transmit the one time password to confirm the transaction. In some embodiments the mobile application generates the one time password and transmits the one time password to the interchange to confirm the transaction without displaying the one time password to the user after the user enters the correct PIN.

In one embodiment the correct PIN is stored on the mobile phone e.g. in an encrypted format . Thus the user interface can verify the PIN entered in the entry box without communicating with the interchange .

Alternatively the correct PIN may be stored on the data storage facility of the interchange . The application running on the mobile phone communicates the PIN received in the entry box to the interchange e.g. in an encrypted format for verification.

Alternatively a third party may store the correct PIN e.g. for controlling access to the voice mail of the phone number . After the interchange obtains the PIN received in the entry box the interchange communicates with the third party to verify the PIN.

In some embodiments the hardware identification number includes a number that is assigned to the mobile phone when the mobile phone is registered with the interchange for the services provided by the interchange . For example the interchange may use an application to write the assigned number into an integrated circuit IC chip in the mobile phone to identify the mobile phone . In some embodiments the assigned number is written into a removable memory module to represent the registered mobile phone .

In the mobile phone includes a seed for the one time password generator . The one time password generator is configured to generate a series of passwords for authenticating with the interchange based on the seed and or the current time. Thus the one time password generated on the mobile phone is in synchronization with the corresponding one time password generated or used on the interchange . Alternatively the one time password generator may not rely upon the current date and time for synchronization and the interchange is configured to tolerate skipping of up to a predetermined number of one time passwords to accept a one time password from the mobile phone .

In one embodiment the PIN verifier is configured to check the PIN received in the entry box against the PIN stored on the mobile phone . After the PIN verifier determines that there is a match between the PIN stored on the mobile phone and the PIN received in the entry box the communication subsystem transmits a one time password obtained from the one time password generator and the hardware identification number to the interchange to confirm the transaction. In one embodiment the one time password is used to encrypt the confirmation transmitted from the mobile phone to the interchange to confirm the transaction.

The mobile phone may transmit the confirmation message to the interchange via short message service SMS email a WAP request or a web request. Other communication protocols can also be used.

In neither the interchange nor the mobile phone stores the correct PIN associated with the phone number of the mobile phone . A third party stores the correct PIN associated with the phone number of the mobile phone . To confirm a transaction the interchange transmits a message to the mobile phone at the phone number to request a confirmation message from the mobile phone . The mobile phone presents a user interface e.g. to receive an input for the PIN from the user and transmits the received PIN to the interchange which further communicates with the third party to verify whether the received PIN matches the correct PIN. Thus the user may use the same PIN for multiple services associated with the phone number such as accessing voice mail at the phone number and paying for purchases using funds associated with the phone number .

In after a request for a transaction between a first party and a second party is received in the interchange e.g. via a web server the interchange communicates with the mobile phone at a phone number identified in the request to confirm the transaction via checking a PIN associated with the phone number . The transaction is confirmed if a PIN entered into the mobile phone by the user of the mobile phone is correct. After the transaction is confirmed the interchange collects funds for the transaction via transmitting premium messages to the mobile phone .

In the interchange provides instructions and data to a mobile phone at a phone number to configure the mobile phone for the services of the interchange . The instructions may be in Java programming language or other programming languages. The data may include a seed for the one time password generator and or a portion of the hardware identification number . For example the user may use the mobile phone to download the instructions and data from the interchange .

After the mobile phone is configured via the instructions and data the interchange may receive a request identifying the phone number and transmit a message to the user to cause the mobile phone to execute the instructions on the mobile phone to present a user interface . After the identify of the user is verified based on a PIN entered into the user interface the mobile phone generates a one time password on the mobile phone and transmits the one time password to the interchange to confirm the request. Once the request is confirmed via the confirmation transmitted from the mobile phone the interchange provides a payment according to the request e.g. using funds associated with the phone number .

In one embodiment the interchange includes a server computer. The server computer may be used to receive a request for a transaction between a first party and a second party. The request includes the indication of a phone number of the first party and an amount to be paid to the second party.

In response to the request the server computer communicates with a mobile phone at the phone number to confirm via a personal identification number of the first party the transaction. After the transaction is confirmed via the personal identification number of the first party the server computer transmits one or more premium messages to the mobile phone to collect via a telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone funds in accordance with the amount to be paid to the second party.

In one embodiment the interchange provides instructions to the mobile phone . When executed the instructions cause the mobile phone to present a user interface to receive a first personal identification number.

The instructions may further cause the mobile phone to encrypt the first personal identification number for transmission from the mobile phone to the server computer. The server computer is to compare the first personal identification number with a second personal identification number associated with the phone number of the mobile phone to determine whether the transaction is confirmed.

Alternatively the instructions may further cause the mobile phone to compare the first personal identification number with a second personal identification number stored on the mobile phone to determine whether the first personal identification number is correct. After determining that the first personal identification number is correct the instructions further cause the mobile phone to transmit a message to the server computer to confirm the transaction.

In one embodiment the instructions further cause the message to include a hardware identification code of the mobile phone . The hardware identification code may be provided to the mobile phone in a read only memory before the mobile phone is distributed to an end user. For example the hardware identification code may include International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI .

In some embodiments the hardware identification code is provided to the mobile phone when the mobile phone is registered with the server computer for services offered by the server computer.

In one embodiment the instructions further cause the mobile phone to transmit the message to the server computer via short message service SMS . In some embodiments the message includes a one time password generated via the instructions. For example the one time password can be generated based on a current time and the server computer is to determine whether the one time password is generated by the mobile phone . When the one time password matches a series of passwords configured to be generated by the mobile phone the one time password is accepted. In one embodiment the server computer provides to the mobile phone at the phone number a seed for generation of the one time password which is used by the instructions to generate the one time password.

In one embodiment the server computer provides the first party with a seed for one time password generation when the first party registers for services of the server computer and the instructions cause the mobile phone to present a user interface to receive the seed.

In one embodiment the server computer is to further communicate with a third party to determine whether the first personal identification number received in the user interface is associated with the phone number of the mobile phone . For example the third party may be a telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone and a correct personal identification number is used by the telecommunication carrier to control access to voice mails for the phone number .

In one embodiment the request is received in a web server of the server computer the server computer communicates with the mobile phone to provide a one time code to the mobile phone after the personal identification number of the first party is verified via the mobile phone and the server computer is configured to receive the one time code back in the web server to confirm the transaction.

In one embodiment the request is received in a web server of the server computer the server computer provides a one time code via the web server to the first party and the server computer is configured to determine whether the transaction is confirmed based on receiving from the mobile phone both the personal identification number of the first party and the one time code.

In one embodiment the interchange is used to facilitate user authentication for signing in accounts on servers that may be operated by entities different from the entity that operates the interchange . The interchange can also be used for user authentication at a server when the server is operated by the same entity that operates the interchange .

For example in one embodiment a user can provide a mobile phone number to identify the user for signing into an account based service hosted on the server . The user can use the mobile phone number to make a request to login and the interchange communicates with the mobile phone at the mobile phone number to authenticate the identity of the user for the system hosted on the server . The user can use the mobile phone to complete the authentication to access an application or service.

The mobile phone number can be tied or bound to existing accounts and or new accounts of the user hosted on various servers for authentication purposes. These accounts may have different type definitions and can vary depending on system setup. For example the user can use the mobile phone number to authenticate login to a bank account an online account a credit card account a checking account an email account etc. In one embodiment the interchange provides an Internet based service to authenticate a mobile phone number to an account and verify the identity of the user e.g. using two factor authentication or multi factor authentication .

In one embodiment the interchange is further used to provide payments to the servers for accessing the accounts or for accessing premium contents or features through the accounts. The interchange may be used to pay for the purchases made via the accounts. Alternatively the interchange may provide the authentication service without having to use the funds associated with the mobile phone number to make payments on behalf of the user.

In some embodiments the server may not allow the user to sign in using the username and the password and may require the user to sign in via the mobile phone of the user. Thus the users of the server do not have to use the username and the password created specifically for the server .

In one embodiment after the user selects the button the server redirects the user to a website of the interchange for authentication as illustrated in .

In one embodiment the website of the interchange uses a browser cookie to store the phone number . Thus after the user provides the phone number in the entry box to sign in one account via the interchange the web page as illustrated in FIG. can use the browser cookie to store the phone number and automatically fill in the entry box when the user is again redirected to the website of the interchange e.g. by the same server to sign in the same account or a different server to sign in a different account .

In another embodiment the phone number is provided by the web page after the user first provides the phone number in the entry box during a previous session of visiting the website of the interchange . The interchange stores the phone number in connection with an identification of the session such that when the user is redirected back to the website of the interchange in the same session the interchange can automatically fill the entry box with the phone number previously provided in the session.

In one embodiment when the user selects the button the interchange communicates with the mobile phone at the phone number to authenticate the user. For example the interchange can transmit a text message to the mobile phone to request the PIN of the user from the mobile phone at the phone number .

In some embodiments the interchange may require the user to sign in to the website of the interchange e.g. using a username and a corresponding password when the phone number is first received in the entry box for a browser session. Such a requirement may be used to reduce or eliminate unintended spamming by the interchange due to the user entering in the text entry box a phone number that does not belong to the user. After the user signs in to the website of the interchange the interchange may pre fill the entry box based on profile information about the user stored on the data storage facility of the interchange .

In some embodiments the interchange further authenticates the user via communicating with the mobile phone at the phone number . For example the interchange can transmit a text message to the mobile phone to request the PIN of the user from the mobile phone at the phone number to complete signing in to the website of the interchange .

In one embodiment when the user is returning to a valid previously authenticated browser session for the authentication process of a server the interchange may skip communicating with the mobile phone for the authentication of the user. For example when the user is retuning to a valid browser session on the website of the interchange for signing into the server the interchange may request the user to present the password for the website of the interchange and if the correct password is received the mobile phone may rely upon the previous communication with the mobile phone in the valid browser session to complete the authentication for the server without a new communication with the mobile phone to confirm the identity of the user.

Alternatively when the user is returning to the valid previously authenticated browser session for the authentication into the server the interchange may skip the authentication via username and password on the website of the interchange but still require the user to confirm identity via the mobile phone at the phone number .

In some embodiments when the user is returning to the valid previously authenticated browser session for the authentication into the server the interchange may skip the need to further authenticate the user via the website of the interchange and or via the mobile phone .

In some embodiments after the interchange confirms the identity of the user via the mobile phone the user on the user terminal is signed in to the website of the interchange until the user signs out or the session is closed or expires.

In other embodiments the interchange may not require the user to sign in to the website of the interchange .

In one embodiment after the user selects the sign in button in the interchange verifies the PIN received via the mobile phone . If the correct PIN is received from the mobile phone the interchange provides information to the server to allow the user to sign in an account on the server .

In one embodiment the user account on the server is identified by the phone number and or the PIN . For example in one embodiment the phone number is directly used to specify the account on the server . For example a hash of the phone number the PIN and or the identity of the server can be used to represent the account of the user on the server .

In some embodiments the phone number the PIN and or the identity of the server are used to look up an identifier of the account of the user on the server .

For example in one embodiment when a new account is created on the server for the user the user is redirected to the website of the interchange for authentication or confirmation e.g. via a user interface similar to that shown in . After the user request to create the new account is confirmed via the mobile phone the user account is associated with the mobile phone and or the PIN .

For example in one embodiment when the user is redirected to the website of the interchange for the confirmation the identifier of the account can be provided from the server to the website of the interchange via the URL that redirected the request. After the interchange receives the PIN from the mobile phone the identifier of the account is stored in the data storage facility as part of the account info associated with the phone number and or the PIN . In one embodiment the account identifier is communicated from the server to the interchange via the web browser of the user in an encrypted format to prevent tampering and for increased security.

Alternatively the server may communicate the account identifier to the interchange directly without going through the user terminal . For example the server may provide a session identifier or a request identifier to the interchange when the server redirects the user to the website of the interchange . The server separately communicates the account identifier associated with the session identifier or the request identifier directly to the interchange e.g. via an Application Programming Interface or a web service . The session identifier or the request identifier thus allows the interchange to associate the account identifier with the phone number provided by the user.

In some embodiments an existing account of the user can also be linked to the phone number of the user in a similar way as linking a new account to the phone number .

In some embodiments the server may request the user to provide the correct username and the password in the user interface similar to that illustrated in before the user is authenticated via the mobile phone . After the server authenticates the user via the username and the password the server requests the interchange to further authenticate the user via the mobile phone . For example in one embodiment the button is not displayed and when the sign in button is selected the browser is directed or redirected to the website of the interchange for authentication via the mobile phone .

In one embodiment the server may store the phone number in the account of the user and after the user is authenticated via the username and the password the server may communicate with the interchange in the background to request the interchange to further authenticate the user via the mobile phone .

In some embodiments the user may provide the phone number to the server to identify the account of the user and the server communicates with the interchange in the background to request the interchange to authenticate the user via the mobile phone without redirecting the user to the website of the server as illustrated in .

In some embodiments after the user selects the sign in button in the user is redirected to the website of the interchange for a user interface as illustrated in .

In some embodiments the user interface as illustrated in is presented as a portion of the login page of the server .

In one embodiment the user may initiate the login process via visiting a web page of the interchange on which the user selects identifies the server the user wants to access and provides the phone number to initiate the mobile phone based on the authentication. After the interchange completes the user authentication via the mobile phone at the phone number the interchange identifies the account of the user at the server and forwards the user to the server . The server may or may not further authenticate the user.

In one embodiment the user can sign in a browser session with a website of the interchange authenticated via the mobile phone . From the authenticated session on the website of the interchange the user can be forwarded to various different accounts of the user hosted on different servers with or without being further authenticated by the respective servers . The interchange automatically identifies the accounts of the user based on the phone number and or the PIN of the user to forward the user to the respective accounts on the servers .

In one embodiment multiple users may share the same phone number to access different individual accounts of the users. The interchange is configured to distinguish the user via different PINs of the users and or different user identifiers. Alternatively the interchange may use only the phone number to identify the user and users not sharing the same accounts are required to use different phone numbers for mobile phone based authentication.

In the user may use the user terminal to sign in the account hosted on the server . To authenticate the user the interchange transmits a message to the mobile phone at the phone number to request a PIN from the user . When the PIN received via the mobile phone matches with the account information stored on the data storage facility the interchange provides information to the server to allow the user to access the account using the user terminal which is typically a device distinct and separate from the mobile phone .

In some embodiments the PIN received from the mobile phone includes a one time password received from the mobile phone . In some embodiments the PIN includes a one time code provided to the user via the user terminal . In other embodiments a one time code is provided to the user via the authentication message from the interchange to the mobile phone and the user is requested to provide the one time code back to the interchange via the user terminal e.g. via the server or directly to the website of the interchange .

In one embodiment the interchange looks up the identifier of the account from the account information based on the phone number and or the PIN. The interchange provides the account identifier to the server to allow the user to access the account identified by the account identifier.

In some embodiments the user has multiple accounts on the server that are associated with the phone number . The interchange identifies the accounts to the server to allow the user to access any of the accounts after the identity of the user is verified via the mobile phone .

In one embodiment the server is configured to identify the account based on the phone number and the interchange may communicate with the server to indicate whether the user failed or succeed in passing the authentication process.

In one embodiment the request includes a web request from a browser of the user redirected from the host of the account e.g. server to the website of the interchange .

In one embodiment the interchange provides a user interface on the browser of the user to receive the phone number specified by the user as illustrated in .

In one embodiment in communicating with the mobile phone the interchange receiving a personal identification number PIN from the mobile phone of the user and the identity of the user is not confirmed by the interchange if the PIN is not associated with the phone number prior to the receiving of the request.

In one embodiment the interchange redirects the web browser from the website of the interchange to the server hosting the account and the information provided by the interchange to the sever includes an identifier to uniquely represent the user among a plurality of users or to uniquely identify the account among a plurality of accounts hosted on the server . In one embodiment the identifier is generated from hashing the mobile phone number and the PIN in another embodiment the identifier is pre associated with the phone number and the host.

In one embodiment the account is a new account of the user created on the server hosting the account and the information provided from the interchange to the server associates the account identifier with an identifier representing the user . Subsequently when the user is authenticated by the interchange via the mobile phone the interchange indicates to the server that the user represented by the user identifier has passed the authentication process which allows the server to grant the user access to all accounts hosted on the server and associated with the user identifier.

In one embodiment the information is provided by the interchange to the server hosting the account without going through the user . Alternatively the information provided by the interchange to the server hosting the account is communicated via redirecting the web browser of the user .

In one embodiment the request includes an identification code to identify a session initiated on the server hosting the account to sign in the user and the information provided from the interchange to the server includes the identification code.

In one embodiment the user has a plurality of accounts on the server and the information provided from the interchange to the server allows the user to access the plurality of accounts.

In one embodiment the interchange determines an identifier of the account based on the communicating with the mobile phone and provides the identifier of the account of the user to the server to allow the user to access the account .

In one embodiment the interchange receives the request including the phone number from the server without going through the user . For example based on the username identified by the user the server may look up the phone number from the account associated with the username to request the interchange to authenticate the user on behalf of the server . In some embodiments the server receives from the user the phone number as the username to access the account .

In one embodiment the account is funded by funds associated with the phone number and paid by the interchange to the server on behalf of the user . For example in one embodiment the interchange transmits one or more premium messages to the mobile phone to collect the funds.

In one embodiment the information allows the user to sign in the account without the user paying the server via the interchange .

In one embodiment the account hosted on the server allows the user to access at least one of email instant messaging social networking blogging banking online shopping gaming online communication and content sharing.

In after the interchange confirms an identity of a user of a user terminal the interchange receives from the user terminal a request to pay via a phone number of the user. In one embodiment the interchange confirms the identify of the user of the user terminal and or associates the identity of the user of the user terminal with the phone number of the mobile phone prior to the user submitting a request to pay via the phone number . Thus communications with the mobile phone at the phone number for the confirmation and or approval of the request does not have to take place between the request and the payment operation and thus the delay between the request and the payment operation can be reduced.

For example the user terminal may include a web browser and the user may log into a web server of the interchange using the web browser. The interchange may prompt the user via the web browser running on the user terminal to provide the phone number and a password associated with the phone number . After verifying the password the user is logged into a session tracked by the web browser on the user terminal and the web browser running on the user terminal is associated with the phone number .

In one embodiment the interchange further communicates with the mobile phone at the phone number to complete the verification process. For example the interchange may send a one time verification code to the mobile phone at the phone number and request the user to provide the correct one time verification code back via the user terminal to verify the association between the user terminal and the phone number . Alternatively the interchange may provide the one time verification code to the user terminal and instruct the user to communicate the code back to the interchange via the mobile phone at the phone number . Alternatively after the user logs in using the user terminal the interchange may send a message to the mobile phone to request a reply from the mobile phone at the phone number within a predetermined period of time to validate the session. In some embodiments after the user provides the phone number to the interchange using the user terminal the user is instructed to provide the password via the mobile phone to complete the log in process.

In one embodiment the user terminal tracks the session. For example the user terminal may use a web browser to track the session via information maintained by the web browser e.g. cookies . Alternatively or in combination the interchange may track the session by maintaining information on the data storage facility . For example after the user completes the log in process the interchange may identify the user terminal via identifiers such as Internet address Media Access Control address MAC address a different phone number e.g. when the user terminal is a different mobile phone or other software or hardware identification number associated with the user terminal such as a digital certificate and the interchange may associate the phone number with such identifiers until the expiration of a predetermined time period or after the user signals an end of the session using the user terminal or using the mobile phone at the phone number . In one embodiment the interchange associates a plurality of identifiers of the user terminal with the phone number for the session. When at least one of the identifiers of the user terminal is changed the interchange may terminate the session automatically.

In after the user terminal submits the request to pay via the phone number the interchange approves the request based on the confirming of the identity of the user performed prior to the request and processes the request using funds associated with the phone number . For example the interchange may transmit premium messages via a corresponding converter to a mobile phone at the phone number to collect the funds or receive premium messages from a mobile phone at the phone number to collect the funds. For example the interchange may determine the account information e.g. an account identifier such as a credit card number a bank account number a debit card number etc. stored and associated with the phone number on the data storage facility of the interchange to charge the user using the account information .

In one embodiment in response to the payment request from the user terminal the interchange may send a notification message to the mobile phone at the phone number . The user is not required to provide a reply to complete the payment process. However the user of the mobile phone is provided with the option opportunity to reply and report a fraudulent use or to cancel the request e.g. within a predetermined period of time .

In one embodiment the data storage facility stores a password associated with the phone number for authentication. In after the interchange receives a password and a phone number from a user terminal the interchange determines whether the received password is the correct password for the phone number . If the received password is the correct password for the phone number the interchange associates the user terminal with the phone number in the data storage facility . If during the time period in which the user terminal is associated with the phone number the interchange receives from the user terminal a request to pay a payee e.g. via the user interface illustrated in the interchange may approve the request based on the confirmed association between the user terminal and the phone number and pay the payee using funds associated with the phone number without requiring a confirmation via the mobile phone at the phone number . In some embodiments after the user terminal submits the phone number to the interchange the interchange may request the password from the mobile phone at the phone number .

In one embodiment during the time period in which the user terminal is associated with the phone number the interchange may automatically provide the phone number in the text field in the user interface for submitting a payment request as illustrated in the based on the association between the user terminal and the phone number . The phone number can be provided by the interchange in the text field as a default input. Alternatively the interchange may not provide the phone number and may require the user to enter the phone number in the text field for enhanced security. In some embodiments the interchange may dynamically determine whether or not to present the phone number in the text field based on a transaction pattern associated with the phone number . For example if the current request matches the pattern the interchange presents the phone number as the default input to simplify user interactions otherwise the interchange does not provide the phone number in the text field for enhanced security.

In after the interchange receives a phone number from a user terminal the interchange communicates with the user for an advance approval for the user terminal via a mobile phone at the phone number . For example the interchange may communicate with the mobile phone at the phone number for the advance approval and or communicate with the user terminal to confirm a password associated with the phone number .

In one embodiment the advance approval is specific for the user terminal and the interchange stores identifiers of the user terminal with the advance approval. For example the interchange may communicate with the user terminal and or the mobile phone to associate the user terminal with the phone number for the advance approval of one or more subsequent payment requests.

In some embodiments the advance approval is not limited to a particular user terminal . For example the user may directly use the mobile phone at the phone number to communicate the advance approval to the interchange without having to identify the user terminal . Alternatively the user may use a particular user terminal to initiate the communications with the interchange for the advance approval without limiting the advance approval to subsequent payment requests from the same particular user terminal .

In one embodiment the advance approval is associated with the phone number on the data storage facility . When a request to pay via the funds associated with the phone number is received the advance approval associated with the phone number is identified and applied by the interchange . The user does not have to explicitly identify the advance approval in making the payment request.

In one embodiment the interchange may assign an identification code for the advance approval for enhanced security. The user may use the identification code in the payment request to explicitly identify the advance approval.

In one embodiment the advance approval specifies a time limit for the expiration of the approval a budget amount for one or more payment requests a limit on the types of permitted products and or services a time window for permissible payment requests a frequency for permissible payment requests and one or more limits based on certain characteristics of the payees e.g. web addresses countries categories .

In one embodiment the advance approval may specify some limits on the permissible user terminals . For example the advance approval may limit the advance approval to user terminals located with certain geographic areas. The interchange may determine the geographic areas of the user terminals based on the IP addresses of the user terminals the access points for wireless local area communications the base stations for cellular communications etc.

After the advanced approval is associated with the phone number the interchange may receive from the user terminal a request to pay a payee via the phone number . Based on the advance approval the interchange may approve the request and pay the payee using funds associated with the phone number without requiring a confirmation message from the user via communications with the mobile phone at the phone number .

In some embodiments the interchange may use the transaction history to determine whether or not to require a confirmation message from the user via communications with the mobile phone at the phone number . The transaction history may include a number of records of prior confirmed approved payment requests.

For example based on the records of prior payment requests the interchange may determine a payment pattern for the phone number such as a list of frequently used user terminals for the phone number a range for typical payment amounts a time of day within which typical payment requests are received for the phone number a list of frequently used payees paid via the phone number a list of categories of services and or products frequently paid for via the phone number a recent payment request confirmed within a predetermined period of time etc.

In the interchange processes a plurality of requests to pay via a phone number . The interchange processes the requests via communicating with the mobile phone at the phone number . For example the interchange may send a message to the mobile phone at the phone number and request a reply to the message from the mobile phone . For example the interchange may request a PIN from the mobile phone at the phone number to confirm the requests. For example the interchange may send one time codes representing the requests to the mobile phone or receive one time codes representing the requests from the mobile phone .

The interchange stores transaction records of the payment requests and determines a pattern of the payment requests.

Subsequently when the interchange receives from a user terminal a request to pay a payee via the phone number the interchange determines whether the request matches the pattern. If the request matches the pattern the interchange pays the payee using funds associated with the phone number without requiring a confirmation communicated via the mobile phone at the phone number to speed up the payment process. The interchange may send a notification to the mobile phone at the phone number without requiring a reply prior to making the payment.

In one embodiment a personal digital assistant PDA is provided in a retail store to allow a merchant to initiate a payment request to the interchange which may also support transactions at other types of retail terminals in other environments such as automatic teller machines ATMs in banks and point of sale POS terminals in retail stores.

In one embodiment the PDA is a mobile device which can be used not only in a fixed location retail system but also in other locations. For example agents may use the PDAs to take payments for door to door debt collection street sales etc. The PDA can be configured to communicate with the interchange via a wireless communication connection e.g. using a wireless wide area network a wireless local area network or cellular telecommunications .

In one embodiment when a customer is in a retail store a cashier may enter the phone number of the customer into a retail terminal to request a payment from the interchange for the purchases made by the customer. The customer gets a text message from the interchange to confirm authorize the payment request. If the customer responds to the text message to confirm authorize the payment request the interchange makes a payment to the retailer using funds associated with the phone number e.g. funds collected via sending premium messages to the mobile phone at the phone number or via charging a credit or debit card associated with the phone number using the account information . Thus the customer can leave the retail store with the purchased goods just like after paying for the purchased goods using a credit or debit card at the retail terminal.

In one embodiment an ATM is configured to accept the phone number entered by a customer to withdraw cash. The ATM transmits the phone number in a request for funds to the interchange . In response to the request the interchange sends a text message to the mobile phone at the phone number to allow the user to confirm or authorize the request. After the customer gets the text message on the mobile phone the customer may reply to the text message to confirm approve and then withdraw cash from the ATM. The interchange provides to the bank of the ATM the corresponding funds collected from the user.

In one embodiment to speed up the transaction process at the retail terminal the customer may send a pre approval to the interchange to authorize a subsequent transaction such as a retail transaction or an ATM transaction prior to reaching the retail terminal. Thus to check out at the retail terminal the customer just provides the phone number to the retail terminal and does not have to wait for the confirmation message from the interchange and does not have to reply to the confirmation message to complete the transaction. After the retail terminal obtains the phone number of the customer the retail terminal can communicate with the interchange to get funds associated with the phone number to close the transaction based on the pre approval.

In after the retail terminal obtains the phone number for the transaction the retail terminal transmits a charge request to the interchange to charge the customer via the phone number . The interchange communicates with the mobile phone at the phone number for the confirmation of the charge request.

In one embodiment the interchange communicates with the mobile phone via text message to obtain the confirmation . Alternatively or in combination the interchange may communicate with the mobile phone via multimedia messaging service MMS instant messaging email web requests and responses WAP applications etc.

After the customer confirms or approves the charge request via the mobile phone the interchange provides funds to the retail terminal for the transaction.

For example in the interchange may identify the account information stored and associated with the phone number in the data storage facility . The interchange uses the account information to communicate with an account server to charge the user using the account information which can be a credit card number a debit card number a checking account number etc.

In one embodiment the interchange obtains the funds from the account of the user using the account information and provides the funds to allow the retail terminal to perform the transaction. For example the interchange may provide the funds to the retailer operating the retail terminal to allow the retail terminal to process a purchase made at the store of the retailer. For example the interchange may provide the funds to the bank of an ATM that serves as the retail terminal and thus the user can withdraw cash from the ATM.

In one embodiment the retail terminal is implemented with traditional functions of retail terminals that are used at fixed locations such as a cash register. In other embodiments the retail terminal is implemented on a PDA with wireless communication capabilities to allow payments to take place at various locations. For example the PDA may be used for door to door debt collection street sales etc.

In some embodiments the retail terminal is further configured to provide an electronic receipt for the transaction completed at the retail terminal . For example the retail terminal may provide the electronic receipt to the interchange for transmission to the mobile phone at the phone number . Alternatively in some embodiments the retail terminal may be configured to transmit the electronic receipt to the mobile phone via a telecommunication carrier without providing the electronic receipt to the interchange .

In the interchange sends premium messages to the mobile phone to obtain the funds as required by the charge request to collect the funds for the transaction performed at the retail terminal .

In one embodiment to reduce the time period the user waits for the retail terminal to submit the charge request and obtain a response from the interchange the user of the mobile phone may send a pre approval of an estimated amount that would be requested by the retail terminal . The mobile phone sends the pre approval to the interchange prior to the retail terminal receiving the phone number to allow the interchange to send the premium message to the mobile phone to collect the funds according to the estimated amount specified in the pre approval . Thus when the retail terminal transmits the charge request to the interchange the process of transmitting the one or more premium messages to the mobile phone is completed or partially completed. This reduces the waiting period at the retail terminal .

In the data storage facility may be used by the interchange to store the balance of the phone number between the funds that have been collected from the mobile phone and funds that have been applied to transactions e.g. made at the retail terminal . The interchange may use the data storage facility to maintain records of charge requests received from the retail terminal premium messages sent to the mobile phone at the phone number and amount of funds received from the telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone .

In one embodiment the interchange communicates with the mobile phone for a confirmation of the charge request . If the mobile phone at the phone number confirms the charge request the interchange provides funds to the server associated with the ATM via a funds transfer . The funds transfer provides the amount of funds for the cash withdrawal and for any transaction fees the server associated with the ATM may charge.

In one embodiment the user of the mobile phone at the phone number has an account with the interchange . The account is associated with the phone number stored in the data storage facility . The user may provide funds to the account via the mobile phone . The interchange transfers funds from the account to the server .

In one embodiment when the balance of the account is not sufficient to provide the funds to satisfy the charge request the interchange may communicate with the mobile phone for a confirmation to send one or more premium messages to the mobile phone to collect funds into the account .

In some embodiments the mobile phone may pre authorize the interchange to collect the funds into the account via the premium messages . Thus the user does not have to wait for the confirmation and the one or more premium messages when using the ATM .

In some embodiments the user may deposit funds into the ATM and request the ATM to transfer the deposited funds to the account hosted on the data storage facility of the interchange .

In some embodiments the user may have an account with the bank of the ATM and the server . The ATM is configured to receive the requests from the user to transfer funds between the account hosted on the data storage facility of the interchange and the account with the bank of the ATM and the server .

In some embodiments the user does not have an account with the bank of the ATM and the server . The ATM is configured to access the account hosted on the data storage facility of the interchange via funds transfer between the server and the interchange . For example the ATM may provide cash based on funds transferred out of the account or receive a deposit via funds transferred to the account .

In some embodiments the ATM may receive a different identifier e.g. a banking card number to identify the account . The server identifies the phone number to request a confirmation .

In some embodiments the ATM of a bank sends the request and receives the confirmation via the server of the bank.

In one embodiment the user interface is implemented on a mobile phone at the phone number . The mobile phone is configured to determine its location e.g. via a Global Positioning System GPS or a positioning system based on a cellular telecommunication network . The user may indicate the authorized retail terminals by providing the current location of the mobile phone while the mobile phone is located near the authorized retail terminals. In one embodiment the interchange can compare the location of the retail terminal and the location provided in the authorization message to determine whether the charge request should be rejected or accepted. For example the user may provide the pre approval before beginning to shop in a retail store or before a meal is served in a restaurant so that the time required for processing the payment can be reduced.

Alternatively the mobile phone may use other identification information such as the phone number of the retailer the name of the retailer etc. to provide pre authorization for anticipated transactions at the retail terminal in addition to or in combination with the location information illustrated in .

In the message presents a number of options to allow the user to select a source of funds for the request to withdraw cash. For example the interchange may collect the funds via premium SMS messages e.g. option 1 in or charge a credit card on file with the interchange e.g. option 2 in to provide the funds for the cash request at the ATM identified in the message .

In some embodiments the message may further request a password or a PIN to authenticate the user of the mobile phone on which the user interface is presented.

In after the phone number is provided to a retail terminal for a transaction on the retail terminal the retail terminal transmits to the interchange the phone number with a request for funds. The interchange correlates the pre approval with the request and approves the request based on the pre approval and provides funds associated with the phone number for the transaction. The interchange transmits a message to the retail terminal to allow the retail terminal to perform the transaction.

In one embodiment the retail terminal is a point of sale POS terminal. In one embodiment the retail terminal is implemented via a personal digital assistant PDA .

In one embodiment the retail terminal is positioned in a retail store for checkouts and the mobile phone is used to communicate with a server computer e.g. interchange to confirm the transaction prior to the retail terminal receiving the phone number of the customer.

In one embodiment the retail terminal is a mobile device adapted to perform transactions at different locations.

In one embodiment the transaction is confirmed via a message sent from the mobile phone as a response to a message sent from the server computer e.g. interchange to the mobile phone .

In one embodiment the retail terminal is an automatic teller machine ATM and the transaction at the ATM includes providing the funds to the customer in cash.

In one embodiment the server computer e.g. the interchange is to transmit a first message to the mobile phone at the phone number to request a confirmation of withdrawing the funds from the ATM and the server computer e.g. the interchange provides the funds to a bank of the ATM after the server computer receives a confirmation reply to the first message. In one embodiment the customer has no bank account with the bank.

In one embodiment the mobile phone is used to communicate with the server computer e.g. interchange to confirm the transaction via pre approving the transaction prior to the providing of phone number to the retail terminal. The server computer is to transmit the message indicating that the funds are available for the transaction in response to a determination that a pre approved amount matches an amount of the transaction. In one embodiment the server computer e.g. interchange is to transmit the one or more premium messages to collect the funds for the anticipated transaction prior to the retail terminal receiving the phone number of the customer.

In one embodiment the server computer is to transmit the message further in response to a determination that a location of the retail terminal matches a location of the mobile phone where the mobile phone pre approves the transaction.

In one embodiment the mobile phone pre approves the transaction by transmitting to the server computer e.g. interchange a message indicating an allowable amount for the transaction and an identity of the retail terminal . The identity of the retail terminal may include a phone number of a merchant operating the retail terminal .

In one embodiment the retail terminal is configured to provide an electronic receipt to the mobile phone via the server computer e.g. interchange .

In one embodiment the server computer e.g. interchange is to communicate with the mobile phone to confirm the transaction via short message service SMS email instant messaging multimedia messaging service MMS etc. The confirmation may include the electronic receipt received from the retail terminal .

In one embodiment the interchange is configured to allow a user to provide a cell phone number to pay for goods or services using a user account tied to the cell phone number of the user.

For example the user can enter the cell phone number into a POS terminal an online checkout system a mobile application or a payment or purchase process system device service or application to pay for goods or services.

In one embodiment the account is hosted on the interchange which can provide Internet based services via at least communicating over Internet. The user account may store the identity of the user and login authentication information. The interchange may charge to the mobile phone bill to fund the account and or make payments. The user account may further store financial card information such as a credit card a pre paid card a debit card etc. The user account may be linked to one or more bank accounts of the user such as a checking account or a savings account. The user account may be linked to other financial accounts such as an investment account a payment intermediary account etc. The user account hosted on the interchange is configured to store values or credits for the user such as credits from refunds from merchant credits funds added by the user to the account via charging linked accounts such as bank accounts credit accounts or via user deposit.

In one embodiment the interchange is configured to perform multiple factor authentication when making payments using the user account. For example the user may be requested to reply by text message from the mobile phone having the phone number for the confirmation of the payment request and or provide a PIN a one time random PIN a password or answers to security questions e.g. using a mobile application running on the mobile phone to pass the authentication operation. In some embodiments the user is requested to provide the PIN or password at the time of entering the phone number to make the payment request.

In one embodiment the mobile phone is configured to receive input such as PIN password one time code reply message etc. via voice recognition keyboard input and or touch screen input e.g. through handwriting recognition or on screen keyboard .

In one embodiment the phone number is associated with the identification of the mobile carrier to allow the user to fund the account via the mobile phone bill from the mobile carrier .

For example a premium message can be sent from the interchange to the phone number to obtain an amount of funds from the mobile carrier via the mobile phone bill according to a predetermined price associated with the premium message.

For example the user may be instructed to send a premium message from the phone number to the interchange to provide an amount of funds according to a predetermined price associated with the premium message.

For example the interchange may send a message to the mobile carrier to request the mobile carrier to bill an amount to the mobile phone bill of the phone number and obtain funds for depositing in the account or paying a merchant or other types of payees such as a family member a friend a relative a charity etc. 

In one embodiment the data storage facility is further configured to store account information such as data that identifies various financial accounts of the user such as checking account savings account investment account credit card account debit card account prepaid card account and or payment intermediary account e.g. third party payment services that identify users via their email addresses or other identifiers .

In one embodiment the account information also includes data identifying online accounts hosted on servers that provide various services and or products to the user. The servers may charge the user for accessing premium services and or products and or for subscription. In some embodiments the servers may maintain account balances for the respective online accounts for the credits values that the user has purchased e.g. purchased using the account as a payment instrument .

In one embodiment the interchange allows the user to make transfers between various accounts such as the account hosted on the interchange the online account hosted on a third party server and or other types of financial accounts such as checking account savings account investment account credit card account debit card account prepaid card account and or payment intermediary account .

In one embodiment the interchange performs authentication for the servers and thus allows the user to sign in the servers using the phone number and the mobile phone having the phone number as discussed in connection with .

In one embodiment the data storage facility stores a balance identity data and security data for the account . The balance represents the funds credits stored in the account . The identity data identifies the user. The security data is used for the authentication of the user.

For example the security data may include a password or PIN for accessing the account a one time code assigned to a particular payment request a seed for one time passwords to authenticate the mobile phone at the phone number etc.

In one embodiment the interchange is configured to authenticate the user using the security data in ways discussed in connection with . For example the interchange may authenticate the user to allow the user to access the linked online account hosted on the server or to process a payment request or to perform a fund transfer between two of the accounts .

For example the interchange may authenticate a request associated with the phone number via communicating with the mobile phone at phone number to verify that the requester is in possession of the mobile phone and via a further security measure such as a password a PIN a one time code a one time password etc.

For example the user may select a password or a PIN that is stored in the account as part of the security data . When the user makes a request at a user terminal by identifying the phone number the interchange may authenticate the user via requesting the password or PIN from the user terminal or from the mobile phone at the phone number .

For example to authenticate a request made at a user terminal the interchange may assign a one time code to the request transmit the one time code to the user via the mobile phone and request the one time code at the user terminal for verification. Alternatively the interchange may assign a one time code to the request transmit the one time code to the user via the user terminal and request the one time code from the mobile phone for verification.

For example to authenticate the mobile phone the interchange may request a one time password generated on the mobile phone or generated on a separate device assigned to the user . In one embodiment access to the one time password generator is password protected for enhanced security.

In one embodiment multiple security measures are used together for certain requests. For example when the amount of a request is above a threshold or an accumulated transaction amount within a predetermined period of time is above a threshold. For example access to certain accounts e.g. online account may require less security measures and access to some accounts e.g. bank accounts e.g. or may require more security measures.

In one embodiment the user can use the phone number at various payment terminals to pay for goods or services as illustrated in and discussed in connection with .

For example in one embodiment the user may enter the phone number in a point of sale POS terminal in a retail store to pay for goods and services. The POS terminal may be configured to process financial cards such as credit cards prepaid cards debit cards etc. In one embodiment the POS terminal is further configured to process phone numbers. For example the user may select a payment option associated with the interchange and key in the phone number on the POS terminal. Alternatively the POS terminal can be configured to communicate with the mobile phone in an automated way to obtain the phone number via radio frequency identification RFID near field communication NFC Bluetooth discovery etc.

After the use confirms the user of the phone number to make a payment on the POS terminal the POS terminal is configured to communicate with the interchange to request a payment using the account associated with the phone number . To authenticate the request from the POS terminal the interchange communicates with the mobile phone at the phone number to request a confirmation. One or more additional security measures such as PIN password one time code and one time password can be used to further authenticate the request. In some embodiments the user may pre authorize the payment request e.g. while waiting in the line to checkout as discussed in connection with .

In one embodiment the phone number can be entered into an ATM machine to request cash backed by funds from the account or to make a deposit to the account . For example the user may key in the phone number to request a transaction in the account . Alternatively the mobile phone may be configured to provide the phone number automatically to the ATM via RFID NFC or Bluetooth. The interchange is configured to transfer money to or from the bank or the owner of the ATM to facilitate the cash withdrawal or to accept a deposit.

In one embodiment the phone number can be used on a mobile application e.g. running on the mobile phone having the phone number to pay for premium accesses and or subscription and or to purchase credits points for consumption within the mobile application.

In one embodiment the phone number supported by the interchange can be used as a payment option in an online checkout system such as an online shopping cart checkout system. The checkout system is configured to communicate with the interchange to obtain the payment from the account identified by the phone number on behalf of the merchant.

In some embodiments the interchange may also use the account information to make payments on behalf of the user without pulling the funds through the account . For example after a payment request is authenticated the interchange may provide some of the account information to the merchant e.g. via POS terminal ATM retail terminal online checkout system etc. to charge the corresponding account for the payment. Alternatively to avoid giving out the account information to merchants the interchange may instruct the financial institutions of the corresponding accounts to make the payment to the merchant.

In some embodiments the interchange may also use the accounts e.g. and to pay the phone bill for the phone number from the mobile carrier .

In one embodiment the phone number as supported by the interchange is used by the user as a central hub to access various financial accounts linked to the phone number . The details of handling the different types of accounts can be shielded from the user via a unified user interface provided by the interchange .

In one embodiment the security data includes a password a personal identification number PIN a one time code a seed for the generation of one time passwords answers to security questions etc.

In one embodiment the interchange is configured to request the password or the PIN from the payment terminals respectively to authenticate the requests e.g. prior to the communication with the mobile phone . Alternatively the interchange can be configured to request the password or the PIN from the mobile phone having the phone number to authenticate the requests or to receive one time passwords from an application running on the mobile phone to authenticate the requests.

In one embodiment the security data includes answers to security questions and the account further stores identity data of the user such as social security numbers date of birth voice characteristics finger print data etc. which can be used to authenticate the user via the mobile phone . For example the mobile phone may include a mobile application to extract voice characteristics from a voice input to construct a text message for the confirmation of a request related to the account and the interchange is configured to compare the received voice characteristics and the corresponding stored voice characteristics to authenticate the user. For example the mobile phone may be used to scan a finger print of the user to allow the interchange to authenticate the user.

In one embodiment the security data includes voice characteristics of the user and to authenticate requests the interchange is to receive a voice input from the mobile phone and match the voice input with the voice characteristics of the user. In some embodiments the interchange performs voice recognition from the voice input. In another embodiment a mobile application running on the mobile phone is used to perform the voice recognition operation to allow the user to compose a text message and the interchange is configured to receive the text message from the mobile phone for the confirmation of the corresponding request. In some embodiments the mobile application may communicate with a third party server in performing the voice recognition operation.

In one embodiment the security data includes one time codes and to authenticate the request the interchange is configured to generate the one time codes in response to the requests to provide the one time codes to the payment terminals respectively for the requests and to communicate with the mobile phone having the phone number to obtain the one time codes back for authentication.

In another embodiment the security data includes one time codes and to authenticate the request the interchange is configured to generate the one time codes in response to the requests to communicate the one time codes to the mobile phone having the phone number and to request the one time codes back from the payment terminals respectively to authenticate the requests.

In one embodiment to authenticate the requests the interchange is configured to receive confirmation messages from the mobile phone having the phone number and confirmation messages include references to the requests respectively. In one embodiment the confirmation messages are composed on the mobile phone as a reply to messages from the interchange and the user may provide input to the confirmation message via voice input to the mobile phone or via keyboard or touch screen input.

In one embodiment the interchange is configured to add funds to the account in response to credits to the phone number from merchants. For example when the user requests refunds or a rebate from a merchant the user may provide the phone number to allow the merchant to fund the account hosted on the interchange .

In one embodiment at least one payment of the payments is performed via instructing a respective merchant to charge one of the funding sources for the payment.

In one embodiment at least one payment of the payments is performed via instructing one of the funding sources to make the payment to a respective merchant.

In one embodiment the payment terminals include a point of sale terminal an online checkout system a purchase processing system of an online merchant an online application to charge a premium for services of the application and or a payment intermediary service.

In one embodiment the interchange stores identification information of the plurality of funding sources e.g. accounts and . For example one payment intermediary account may be identified via an email address of the user. In one embodiment the plurality of funding sources may include one or more of a checking account a savings account an investment account a credit card account a debit card account a prepaid card account and a payment intermediary account .

In one embodiment the interchange is configured to provide a user interface to show e.g. via a web server a list of charities when a user is directed to the website of the interchange to make a payment. The user interface of the interchange allows the user to not only enter the phone number to identify a fund source for the payment but also optionally select a charity from the list and specify an amount to be donated to the charity. The funds needed for the entire transaction including the payment to the merchant and the donation to the charity are obtained from a fund source pre associated with the phone number such as funds collected via a telecommunication carrier using a premium text message credit cards bank accounts payment intermediary accounts etc.

In one embodiment the interchange is configured to use the phone number of the user to communicate with the user for a confirmation of the transaction request including the payment request and the donation instruction.

In one embodiment if a charity is selected in the user interface the interchange transmits a premium text message to a short code designated to collect donations for the charity to provide the donation on behalf of the user. In one embodiment the short code is a telephone number that is significantly shorter than full telephone numbers and that can be used to address SMS and or MMS messages from certain mobile phones. The short code designated to collect donations for the charity allows mobile phone users to provide donations to the charity by transmitting premium text messages to the short code.

In one embodiment after the interchange transmits the premium message to the short code designated to collect donations for the charity a telecommunication carrier charges the interchange via a telephone bill to collect the funds for a donation corresponding to the premium message.

In some embodiments the interchange configures the premium text message which is transmitted to the short code designated to collect donations for the charity to indicate the phone number of the user.

In one embodiment the interchange accumulates the donated amount received from a particular user or a set of users in an account and provides the accumulated funds from the account to the charity periodically or when the balance of the accumulated funds reaches a threshold. The funds can be provided to the charity via premium messages transmitted to the short code designated to collect donations for the charity via automated clearing house transfer via a check or via other methods for transferring funds.

In one embodiment the interchange is configured to use the charity donation as a way to dispose of the change resulting from predetermined price points and payments requested by the merchants. For example in some embodiments the smallest unit of funds that the interchange can bill a user e.g. via premium messages is larger than the smallest unit of a currency. Thus after computing the smallest amount that the interchange can bill the user to fulfill the payment requested by the merchant the difference between the amount obtained via the billing and the amount used to fulfill the payment represents the change resulting from the payment transaction. In one embodiment the user is provided with an option to donate the change to a charity of the choice of the user.

When the change is donated the user does not have to explicitly specify the amount to be donated. The interchange is to compute the donation amount based on the discrete price points that the interchange can charge the user and the payment amount.

In one embodiment the user is provided with a user interface to explicitly specify an amount for the donation. In one embodiment the user is provided with a user interface to specify a suggested amount for the donation and the interchange is configured to compute the actual amount for the donation based on the discrete price points.

In one embodiment the user is provided with a user interface to specify a budget for the charity for donations in a period of time e.g. a week a month a year and the interchange is configured to make donations to the charity using the change from payment transactions in accordance with the budget.

In one embodiment the user is provide with a user interface to specify preferences for donations to a plurality of charities such as a ratio of amounts donated to the charities and the interchange is configured to use the change from payment transactions of the user to make donations to the plurality of charities in accordance with the preferences of the user.

In one embodiment the merchant and or the interchange can also contribute to the donations to the charity selected by the user. For example the merchant may donate a percentage of the payment to the charity if the user specifies the charity in the user interface. For example the interchange may donate a percentage of the fees for processing the payment transaction to the charity if the user specifies the charity in the user interface. For example in one embodiment the merchant and or the interchange may provide a donation matching the amount donated by the user. In one embodiment the matching funds are limited by the amount of the payment and or fees the merchant and or the interchange might collect from the user via the payment transaction.

In one embodiment the interchange stores the charity preferences of the user such as a list of charity organizations of interest to the user. In one embodiment the user interface for processing a payment is configured to allow the user to select a favorite charity from a list. In one embodiment a favorite charity selected by the user is used to process donations in subsequent payment transactions of the user until the user selects a different charity e.g. via a confirmation message for confirming a payment . In some embodiments the user may select a preference for the donation amount e.g. as a percentage of the payment a fixed amount or a suggested amount and the interchange is configured to process subsequent payment transactions of the user based on the donation amount preference.

In one embodiment when the selection box is selected a listed of available charities are displayed e.g. via a pull down menu or a pop up window . The user is allowed to select one charity from the list to make a donation in connection with the payment of the amount to a merchant e.g. in response to the user making a purchase on the server of the merchant .

In one embodiment the list is sorted according to preferences of the user. For example in one embodiment the list is sorted according to the number of donations that the user has made to the respective charities. For example in one embodiment the list is sorted according to the aggregated amount of donations that the user provided to the respective charities within a predetermined period of time e.g. the past calendar year the last 12 months the previous month etc. 

In one embodiment the top ranking charity is presented as the default choice. In another embodiment a suggestion by the interchange is presented as the default choice and the user can use the selection box to select from a list ranked according to a preference indicator of the user. In one embodiment the preference indicator is computed based on past donations provided by the user via the interchange .

In the user interface allows the user to explicitly specify an amount in the entry box . In one embodiment the amount specified by the user in the entry box is the exact amount of donation to the charity identified by the selection box . In another embodiment the amount specified by the user in the entry box is the minimum amount and the actual amount is the minimum amount plus the change resulting from the payment transaction.

In the user interface allows the user to implicitly specify an amount in the entry box based on the change resulting from the payment transaction.

For example in one embodiment the fees and the payment for a transaction are summed to generate a required total amount which is rounded up to the next highest dollar amount for billing purposes. The difference between the required total amount and the amount billed represents the change for the transaction.

In one embodiment the amounts the interchange can bill a user e.g. via premium messages are based on predetermined price points. When none of the predetermined price points matches a required payment amount the closest price point that is higher than the requirement payment amount is billed. The different between the amount billed and the required total amount contributes to the change resulting from the payment transaction.

In one embodiment when the user suggested donation amount is specified in the input entry box or when the option of donating the change is selected the user interface is configured to calculate the exact amount of the donation and present the exact amount to the user. In one embodiment the exact amount of the donation is presented to the user during the confirmation of the payment requested via the user interface .

In one embodiment the user interface further presents the matching donation the merchant and or the interchange will make if the user specifies a donation to the charity identified via the selection box .

In one embodiment the user interface may further present statistics of past donations made by the user via the interchange . For example the statistics may include an aggregated amount of donations the user has made to the charity identified in the selection box . For example the statistics may include an aggregated amount of donations that have been made by various users via interchange to the charity identified in the selection box during a predetermined period of time.

In the confirmation message provides instructions to the user on how to confirm the payment request that may be sent to the interchange via a separate user terminal such as a computer a notebook computer a tablet computer a game console etc.

In if the user replies from the mobile phone at the phone number with a message including a first keyword e.g. P the interchange makes the payment according to the amount of the payment without making a donation. If the user replies from the mobile phone at the phone number with a message including a second keyword e.g. D the interchange makes the payment according to the amount of the payment and the donation according to the charity options specified in the user interface illustrated in .

In one embodiment the confirmation message shows the exact amount of the proposed donation and the identity of the charity organization.

In one embodiment the user may specify a different amount of charity donation via the message provided as a reply to the confirmation message . In one embodiment the user may specify a different charity via the message provided as a reply to the confirmation message . For example in one embodiment when no charity option is selected via the user interface illustrated in the user may use the message provided as a reply to the confirmation message to specify the charity options.

In one embodiment the charity information includes records of donations made using funds associated with the phone number .

In one embodiment the charity information includes a list of favorite charities of the user of the phone number and the list presented via the user interface for the selection of a charity for a donation associated with a payment is based on the list of favorite charities identified in the charity information .

In one embodiment the charity information includes preference settings such as the explicit amount of donation suggested for each payment transaction a default charity whether or not change resulting from payment transactions is donated budget for charity donations a preferred donation ratio for a plurality of charities a preferred donation frequency e.g. identified based on a predetermined time interval a predetermined spending threshold a predetermined number of payment transactions etc.

In one embodiment the charity information is provided from the user terminal in connection with charge requests . In one embodiment the confirmation is used not only to confirm the charge request made in response to the purchase request but also to confirm the charity information .

In the interchange is configured to transmit premium messages to the short code designated by a telecommunication carrier to collect donations for a charity organization. In one embodiment the interchange is configured to store donations resulting from various payment transactions in an account and when the balance is above a threshold e.g. a minimum unit that can be delivered via a premium message the interchange is configured to transmit at least one premium message to the short code to deliver the donation.

In one embodiment the user interface is provided in response to the user visiting a website of the merchant e.g. hosted on server to make a purchase. To process the payment and or the donation the interchange is configured to bill a fund source associated with the phone number to collect funds for the payment to the merchant and the donation to the charity organization. The fund source may be a telephone bill of the mobile phone billed via premium messages a bank account a credit account a debit account a prepaid account a checking account or a savings account.

In one embodiment the interchange is configured to determine an amount of the donation based on a difference between a price point selected from a set of predetermined discrete price points and an amount of the payment such as discrete price points determined by a set of premium message codes where each respective premium message code in the set of premium message codes corresponds to a predetermined price charged by a telecommunication carrier to a recipient of the respective premium message code that is transmitted to a mobile phone of the recipient via a premium message. The predetermined price is pre specified by the telecommunication carrier of the mobile phone of the recipient according to a published price scheme. In one embodiment the user interface is configured to present the amount of the donation.

In one embodiment the computing device is configured to determine a price point based on an amount of the payment and a set of discrete prices such as rounded up dollar amounts or prices associated with a combination of codes selected from a predetermined set of premium message codes published by a telecommunication carrier.

In one embodiment the computing device is configured to identify a set of premium messages corresponding to the price point where each of the set of premium messages contains one code from the predetermined set of premium message codes. The amount of the donation is calculated based on a difference between the price point and the amount of the payment and the interchange is configured to transmit the set of premium messages to the mobile phone at the phone number to bill the user.

In one embodiment if no charity organization is identified in the user interface a payment of a first amount is paid to the merchant for the purchase and if the charity organization is identified in the user interface a portion of the first amount is provided to the charity organization for the donation. For example the merchant may agree to donate a portion of the expected payment to the charity identified by the user.

In one embodiment in response to the identification of the charity organization in the user interface a portion of fees charged by the interchange for processing of the payment is donated to the charity organization.

In one embodiment the interchange is configured to provide the donation to the charity organization via transmitting at least one premium message to a phone number or short code designated to collect charity contributions for the charity organization.

In one embodiment the premium messages transmitted from the computing device to the phone number or short code designated to collect charity contributions for the charity organization is configured to indicate the phone number of the user to provide credit to the user.

In one embodiment the data storage facility of the interchange is configured to store data e.g. charity information to track charity donation contributions from the user and or the merchant.

In one embodiment each of the interchange the data storage facility the controllers the mobile phones the user terminals the account server and the servers can be implemented as a data processing system with fewer or more components as illustrated in .

In the data processing system includes an inter connect e.g. bus and system core logic which interconnects a microprocessor s and memory . The microprocessor is coupled to cache memory in the example of .

The inter connect interconnects the microprocessor s and the memory together and also interconnects them to a display controller display device and to peripheral devices such as input output I O devices through an input output controller s .

Typical I O devices include mice keyboards modems network interfaces printers scanners video cameras and other devices which are well known in the art. In some embodiments when the data processing system is a server system some of the I O devices such as printer scanner mice and or keyboards are optional.

The inter connect may include one or more buses connected to one another through various bridges controllers and or adapters. In one embodiment the I O controller includes a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals and or an IEEE 1394 bus adapter for controlling IEEE 1394 peripherals.

The memory may include ROM Read Only Memory volatile RAM Random Access Memory and non volatile memory such as hard drive flash memory etc.

Volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continually in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. Non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive an optical drive e.g. a DVD RAM or other type of memory system which maintains data even after power is removed from the system. The non volatile memory may also be a random access memory.

The non volatile memory can be a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system. A non volatile memory that is remote from the system such as a network storage device coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface can also be used.

In this description various functions and operations may be described as being performed by or caused by software code to simplify description. However those skilled in the art will recognize that what is meant by such expressions is that the functions result from execution of the code instructions by a processor such as a microprocessor. Alternatively or in combination the functions and operations can be implemented using special purpose circuitry with or without software instructions such as using Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA . Embodiments can be implemented using hardwired circuitry without software instructions or in combination with software instructions. Thus the techniques are limited neither to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

While some embodiments can be implemented in fully functioning computers and computer systems various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a computing product in a variety of forms and are capable of being applied regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

At least some aspects disclosed can be embodied at least in part in software. That is the techniques may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor such as a microprocessor executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory cache or a remote storage device.

Routines executed to implement the embodiments may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. The computer programs typically include one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations necessary to execute elements involving the various aspects.

A machine readable medium can be used to store software and data which when executed by a data processing system causes the system to perform various methods. The executable software and data may be stored in various places including for example ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory and or cache. Portions of this software and or data may be stored in any one of these storage devices. Further the data and instructions can be obtained from centralized servers or peer to peer networks. Different portions of the data and instructions can be obtained from different centralized servers and or peer to peer networks at different times and in different communication sessions or in a same communication session. The data and instructions can be obtained in entirety prior to the execution of the applications. Alternatively portions of the data and instructions can be obtained dynamically just in time when needed for execution. Thus it is not required that the data and instructions be on a machine readable medium in entirety at a particular instance of time.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable and non recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory devices floppy and other removable disks magnetic disk storage media optical storage media e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others. The computer readable media may store the instructions.

The instructions may also be embodied in digital and analog communication links for electrical optical acoustical or other forms of propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. However propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. are not tangible machine readable medium and are not configured to store instructions.

In general a tangible machine readable medium includes any apparatus that provides i.e. stores and or transmits information in a form accessible by a machine e.g. a computer network device personal digital assistant manufacturing tool any device with a set of one or more processors etc. .

In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions to implement the techniques. Thus the techniques are neither limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

Although some of the drawings illustrate a number of operations in a particular order operations which are not order dependent may be reordered and other operations may be combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

In the foregoing specification the disclosure has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

