---

title: Method for utilization calculation on equipment including independent component
abstract: Embodiments relate to a method of monitoring an asset including an independent component, the method including: receiving at an electronic device data related to operation of an asset, the data including utilization data of an independent component of the asset; interpreting, using a processor, the utilization to determine an utilization or operational characteristic of the asset; performing, using a processor, analysis of the utilization or operational characteristic in view of a stored target to produce a performance output; filtering, using a processor, to improve accuracy; and providing a report that includes the operational characteristic and/or utilization output; wherein utilization data of the independent component is generated by detecting the engine status of a prime mover of the asset; detecting a position of the independent component; wherein the independent component provides work functionality independent of the engine status.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09460051&OS=09460051&RS=09460051
owner: 
number: 09460051
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20121017
---
This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 219 054 filed on Jun. 22 2009 entitled Asset Information Reporting and U.S. application Ser. No. 12 795 455 filed on Jun. 7 2010 which are all incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 548 097 filed Oct. 17 2011 the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.

This application relates generally to asset information reporting and more specifically to processing analysis and presentation of data associated with construction or agricultural asset operations.

The approaches described in this section could be pursued but are not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

A monitoring system can be installed on an asset e.g. an excavator to enable the owner of the asset or a third party to monitor the asset s location and performance. The monitoring system can utilize the Global Positioning System GPS or a cellular triangulation system to determine the location of the asset and include a communication component such as a cellular or a satellite transceiver to transmit the asset s location and performance. When no communication network is available the monitoring device can store data in its internal memory and communicate the stored data when the network becomes available again.

However a typical monitoring system provides unreliable performance data due to inaccuracies occurring while detecting some performance events. Furthermore the performance data can be missing some important information and a user can be required to get the data from a third party server and thereafter calculate and interpret the data themselves over time. Often no data analysis or interpretations is performed and the data is presented in a confusing format.

In an example embodiment a method to collect to process to analyze and to present data related to the asset is provided. A monitoring system is installed on an asset for example construction equipment agricultural equipment on highway equipment rail equipment or off highway equipment to enable monitoring the location and performance of the asset. The monitoring system can include among other components one or more monitoring device and sensors. The monitoring system collects and transfers information to a monitoring system provider which in turn can make the information available to the owner of the asset or a third party. The monitoring system can include processors to process data from the sensors and monitors at the asset. A monitoring system processor can pull the information from the monitoring system provider for processing analysis filtering and generation of reports based on the information related to the asset. Any of the monitoring system the monitoring system provider the monitoring system processor or combinations thereof can receive additional data from additional sources to combine with the monitoring system data. Examples of additional sources include mobile telephones mobile computing device navigational systems and positioning systems.

The above method s systems s and device s can report on the utilization of an asset e.g. lift equipment material handling equipment construction equipment etc. The asset can include a sensor that senses its utilization in ways other than the prime mover e.g. electrical motor or combustion engine run time. In an example run time can be used as a factor in determining run time.

The following detailed description includes references to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the detailed description. The drawings show illustrations in accordance with example embodiments. These example embodiments which are also referred to herein as examples are described in enough detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the present subject matter. The embodiments can be combined other embodiments can be utilized or structural logical and electrical changes can be made without departing from the scope of what is claimed. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. Furthermore all publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In some example embodiments the information related to an asset can be collected in production utilization maintenance and health areas. For a specific asset e.g. a construction machine the information collected in the production area can include an ignition status a distance moved since last valid loading or unloading event a time elapsed since the last valid loading or unloading event a loading sensor ON time and an unloading sensor ON time. The production information can also include an asset s cycle time. The cycle time can for example represent a period between two sequential bucket dumps or the time it takes a machine to fully load and fully unload. In general the cycle can be the measurement of time between two of the same events by the asset that can be sensed. The information collected in the utilization area can include fuel efficiency a number and durations of idle periods and working time of the asset. The information collected in the maintenance area can include a record of the asset maintenance history. The information collected in the health area can include the current health of the asset obtained by analyzing electronic controller modules on the asset such as fault and alarm data. A monitoring system can be utilized to collect the information in the production utilization maintenance and health of the asset. A filtering module can remove erroneous data.

The monitoring system can use a position navigation satellite system e.g. the Global Positioning System GPS other satellite based positioning system or a cellular triangulation system to determine location of the asset. The information collected by the monitoring system can include the location alarms faults operational machine data operator performance fuel efficiency production statistics preventive maintenance schedule and utilization times of the asset.

The monitoring system can also include a monitoring device and sensors installed at various locations on the asset or where the asset will travel. The sensors can measure loading and unloading operations associated with the asset for example excavators haul trucks or loaders. In some example embodiments the asset is a mobile structure or fixed structures such as crushers conveyors or buildings. To communicate an event to the monitoring device the sensors can utilize wires or a short range radio communications protocol e.g. IEEE 802.15.4 802.11.X or other short range communication devices . Relays can be utilized to regulate the information communicated by the sensors to the monitoring device. The relays can act as filters to convey data at a time when the data is known to be valid.

The monitoring system can also receive data from third party sources that are not integrated in the asset being monitored but are associated with the asset. In an example an operator is assigned to an asset e.g. a dump truck that requires a specific operator s license. The operator can have a mobile electronic device e.g. a mobile phone or other communication device which can be used to collect further information about the asset. The electronic device can include a navigational position system that can provide the position of the device and hence the asset at any given time. Other data can be provided by the electronic device such as audio video text input emails messaging directed input through instructions stored in the memory on the device and executed by a processor.

For assets that utilize a hydraulic Electronic Control Module ECM an event e.g. a door or bucket closing or opening can be detected by monitoring the electronic circuits serial communications and or a bus of the asset to determine when the operator engages the corresponding control. However when the asset does not include the hydraulic ECM hydraulic pressure switches or a device similar in nature can be installed to sense activation or operation. Thereafter events may be detected by monitoring changes in the system pressure of the asset. Since such events can include temporary movements relays can be utilized to filter out false or temporary movements.

The monitoring system can further include a transceiver coupled to an antenna to transmit and receive the information from a monitoring system service provider via cellular or satellite networks. In an example the monitoring system sends the information over short range wireless communication to a router connected to a computer system such as the Internet. In some example embodiments data can be stored on the monitoring system for a period of time until it does have communication links to communication systems e.g. wireless connections cell coverage etc. Upon receipt of the information the monitoring system service provider can make the information collected by the monitoring system available to third party software applications via an open architecture permitting access of the information over an electronic or electromagnetic network e.g. the Internet .

A monitoring system processor can access the monitoring system service provider over a network using a network protocol e.g. Web Services and pull the information. The monitoring system processor can perform an intelligent analysis of the information. The monitoring system processor can apply information processing rules to the data to filter false information from the database and from issued reports. For example any reported loading events that occur while the asset is in the warm up phase can be eliminated as false. More broadly stated at certain times and or locations certain events cannot occur. In some example embodiments invalid loading and unloading events can be eliminated by determining that at the time of the reported events the asset was not present at the respective job site. In some example embodiments the processor can ensure that each loading event is followed by an unloading event and vice versa.

Invalid loading events can also be eliminated by determining that an asset has not moved between the events and or by determining that too little time elapsed between the consecutive loading events. Various filter values can be associated with particular events and particular types and locations of the asset. The filters can be adjusted by a user per each different type of the asset. The information can be processed and sent to other software system for interpretations and analysis in the near real time. The monitoring system processor can create one or more of customized reports which can be accessed via a web interface application or forwarded to a customer in the body of or as an email attachment. The reports can be utilized by the customer to enhance productivity levels of the asset.

A customer can provide target information which is incorporated into the reports. This target information can be updated by the customer periodically. The targets can be updated through a computer network. Target information is detailed goals or targets a customer wants to obtain each day week or customized length of time. A report can compare actual activity of the asset to the target information provided by the customer and color code the report results based on a custom defined set of criteria e.g. 60 80 90 of target . In some reports assets can be automatically grouped by a job site based on the intelligence built into the processor or monitoring system. Geo fencing can be automatically created when an asset is moved to another site based on certain predetermined parameters. Users are permitted to enter geo fence coordinates and be identified when entering or leaving a geo fence boundary. The processor can generate new sites for the user automatically based upon custom criteria e.g. 5 mile radius 10 rectangular area polygon areas or other areas .

In some example embodiments specific site data entered by the customer can be incorporated into the report to create a relationship. For example an asset such as a scraper completes 111 loads during a certain time period 1 day . The target data provided by the customer has a goal of 85 loads per day. This data permits the monitoring system processor to interpret the meaning of the information collected by the monitoring system in the context of various goals and or benchmarks set by the customer. A report generated for the customer can illustrate that the scraper has exceeded its goal for the day and therefore was successful i.e. profitable or efficient. The customer can also utilize the reports to understand various patterns of his asset. Periodic results from the processing performed by the monitoring system processor can be stored in a database. Thereafter the results can be utilized for trend analysis over time to help improve field operations.

The reports are presented in a precise organized and clear form without a need for additional resources for analysis of the information related to operations of an asset. The reports can be delivered electronically for example by email internet text wireless mobile device communication computer communication or combinations thereof. In some example embodiments the reports provided to the customer can include a management report summarizing the information included in other reports or generally available. Other reports can relate to more specific areas of information such as production utilization maintenance and health of the asset.

The reports provided to the customer can help the customer to understand costs associated with operations of an asset and identify ways to increase production and efficiency. Based on the reports business decisions can be developed to help improve the overall performance of the asset or the operator of the asset. A production report for an asset can include but is not limited to cycle times number of loads per day amount of material moved each day machine hours and machine costs. A utilization report for an asset can include number of hours the machine has been shutdown hours idling hours working how much fuel has been used and how fuel efficient the machine is. A maintenance report can include machine hours time of the next service the type of service due next the location of the machine services needed to be performed and parts necessary. A maintenance history report can also indicate what maintenance was performed who performed the maintenance when the maintenance was performed and what parts and costs were associated with the maintenance A health report can include information related to running of the asset alarms faults trouble codes and issues needed to be resolved. Periodic results from the processing performed by the monitoring system processor can be stored in a database. Thereafter the results can be utilized for trend analysis over time to help improve field operations. An example network within which an asset information reporting can be implemented is illustrated in .

The reports can be generated in essential real time and provided at the worksite for example on a mobile electronic device.

The environment can include a satellite network and or a cellular network both of which can be utilized for transmitting and receiving positional and operational data to the monitoring system . The network can also be a short range wireless network used by computer systems. The satellite network and or the cellular network can also receive and transmit the positional and operational data from a monitoring system service provider . The monitoring system service provider can include dedicated circuitry or a general purpose computer configurable to make the information collected at the monitoring system available through an open architecture interface such as an Application Programming Interface API . The environment can also include a computer network . The network can be a network of data processing nodes that are interconnected for the purpose of data communication e.g. a global computer network such as the Internet .

The monitoring system provider is communicatively coupled to the network . A monitoring system processor illustrated within the environment can be communicatively coupled to the network as well. The monitoring system processor can be utilized to access and pull the positional and operational data associated with the asset via the open architecture interface. Various communication protocols e.g. Web Services can be utilized in the communications occurring between the monitoring system processor and the monitoring system service provider . The monitoring system service provider can utilize telematics and intelligent data processing as well as software to make the information available via the network .

While illustrated as two separated systems in an example the monitoring system and the monitoring system processor can be integrated and communication between the two systems occur as an asset that is being monitored.

The monitoring system processor can be communicatively coupled to a database in which the monitoring system processor may periodically store results after processing of the information received from the monitoring system provider . The monitoring system processor can includes various modules discussed in more detail below with reference to . The modules of the monitoring system processor can be utilized to perform various operations discussed in more detail with reference to .

The monitoring system processor is optionally associated with an operator operating the monitoring system processor via a computer . The computer can include a Graphical User Interface GUI facilitating display and manipulation of the monitoring system processor . The computer can also enable the operator to view and manipulate reports that can be used to manage and monitor one or more of the assets associated with the authorized user. The monitor can be remote and the graphics being displayed can be over a computer network.

The authorized user can receive real time reports related to the asset usage performance and location. Using detailed map views the authorized user can see up to date data related to location of the asset . The reports can include a production report. The production report for example can detail number of loads cycle times and amount of material moved by the asset . The reports can include a utilization report. The utilization report for example can detail fuel efficiency idle and working time of the asset . The reports can also include a maintenance report. The maintenance report can include a record of the asset maintenance history. The reports can also include a health report. The health report can include the current health of the asset by analyzing faults and alarms.

The monitoring system processor can provide the reports to an authorized user via the network . The authorized user can view the reports using a general purpose computer or any other device providing an ability to view the reports . In some example embodiments the monitoring system processor can send copies of the reports to the authorized user attached or embedded in a body of an electronic email. The reports are based on the information initially provided by the monitoring system . The monitoring system is described by way of example with reference to .

System B includes an asset device that can provide additional data regarding the asset . Asset device can be a mobile device that is physically separate from the asset but can provide additional data regarding the asset. Asset device can include a navigational positioning system . For example the asset device can be the mobile phone of the asset operator. In this case the mobile phone asset device can determine the location of the device and report it through network which can also include one of more of the computer network the satellite network and or the cellular network to at least one of the monitoring system service provider the authorized user through the general purpose computer and the monitoring system processor . The additional data from the asset device can be used to supplement the data used in processing the received data to produce reports.

The data collection device can be an asset user electronic device that includes a processor and memory. The device can sense or input data relating to the asset for reporting performance and status of the asset. In an example the device includes a navigational positioning system that tracks the position of the device . During certain known times the device is closely associated with the asset as the operator user is controlling the asset. The device can then report positional data that can be used to evaluate the performance of the asset. The device can run a program that stores its location at certain times. The time of the location data will also be stored to correlate the location data with operational data from the asset .

The data collection device can further execute instructions that provide a template or structured input box to prompt the user to input desired information that can be used to evaluate asset performance. In an example certain predicted events can be part of the template. Examples of predicted events can be lunch breaks arrival at a known location e.g. at event location area loading event unloading event maintenance event etc. Any data type can be input into the reporting system by the device .

The data collection device can further input data for reporting in an unstructured format. Any event or other data that a user believes to be important to the performance can be input from the device into the report system. The device can communicate with other components of the reporting system using other electronic communications e.g. email text message voice mail etc. The additional data provided by the device can be used to for maintenance tracking asset mechanical status asset electrical status or other performance. The additional data can further document fluid checks or odometer readings. The additional data can also include images of the asset for example after an accident or mishap or routine documentation of the asset according to contractual agreements e.g. insurance agreement or rental agreement. The third party agreements can be implemented in an application i.e. stored and executable instructions that requests the required data to be input by the user through the device .

In an further example the device can provide data relating to the asset to the user. The data provided to the device can be parts lists maintenance data operating instructions links to acquire reports data or templates or other data. This data can be provided by the monitoring system provider or the monitoring system processor or from third parties through these environment components and communication networks.

The monitoring system provider or processor can filter and or process the data into reports that can be provided to an end user or owner of the assets. The reports can be populated with data from the device to provide a more robust report and automate asset reporting maintenance and other efficient reporting.

Data communication as described in couples the various devices together. The network is preferably the Internet but can be any network capable of communicating data between devices can be used with the present system. In addition to the Internet suitable networks can also include or interface with any one or more of for instance an local intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a virtual private network VPN a storage area network SAN a frame relay connection an Advanced Intelligent Network AIN connection a synchronous optical network SONET connection a digital T1 T3 E1 or E3 line Digital Data Service DDS connection DSL Digital Subscriber Line connection an Ethernet connection an ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network line a dial up port such as a V.90 V.34 or V.34bis analog modem connection a cable modem an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode connection or an FDDI Fiber Distributed Data Interface or CDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface connection. Furthermore communications can also include links to any of a variety of wireless networks including WAP Wireless Application Protocol GPRS General Packet Radio Service GSM Global System for Mobile Communication CDMA Code Division Multiple Access or TDMA Time Division Multiple Access cellular phone networks GPS Global Positioning System CDPD cellular digital packet data RIM Research in Motion Limited duplex paging network Bluetooth radio or an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network. The network can further include or interface with any one or more of an RS 232 serial connection an IEEE 1394 Firewire connection a Fiber Channel connection an IrDA infrared port a SCSI Small Computer Systems Interface connection a USB Universal Serial Bus connection or other wired or wireless digital or analog interface or connection mesh or Digi networking. In an example the network can be capable of communicating using any one or a plurality of the above communication means discussed herein.

The transmitter and the receiver are electrically connected to the antenna for respectively sends in receiving over the air electromagnetic signals. The transmitter includes electronic circuits to receive an input signal from the antenna . The transmitter can include a power supply an oscillator a modulator and amplifiers for specific frequencies. The modulator adds signal information onto a carrier frequency which is then broadcast from the antenna . The receiver can include electronic filters to separate a desired radio signal from noise and other signals sensed by the antenna . The receiver amplifies the desired signal to a level suitable for further electronic processing e.g. demodulation and decoding and signal processing. While the transmitter and the receiver are shown as separate devices in it will be recognized that a transceiver a device that includes circuits for both sending and receiving is within the scope of the present disclosure.

The monitoring device can include firmware which supports automated monitoring and reporting of the asset activities and status. For example the monitoring device can detect an alert and cause the antenna to send the alert to the monitoring system provider . The alert sent to the monitoring system provider can is in an example accompanied by a location and operational data of the asset . Information related to other events can be detected stored and transmitted by the monitoring device . The monitoring device can automatically report arrival or departure of the asset from a job or home site location. The monitoring device can also record and transmit various machine utilization parameters such as a time and distance traveled. The monitoring device can be mounted on the asset and does not require operator access or involvement.

The monitoring device can include processors that execute applications which are instructions stored on computer readable media. The local processing capability of the monitoring can perform simple and complex logic including but not limited to power management communication management data storage encrypted communication and or real time clock processing and management.

The wiring harness includes in an example a string of cables and or wires which transmit electrical signals or operating currents between other components of the monitoring system . By binding wires and cables into a cable harness the wires and cables are secured against the adverse effects of vibrations abrasions and moisture. By constricting the wires into a non flexing bundle usage of space is optimized and the risk of a short circuit is decreased. The wires bundled in the wiring harness can be connected to various parts of the asset to transmit various signals from sensors activators not shown pumps not shown or other asset components to the monitoring system .

The sensor s can be installed at various locations of the asset . The sensors can measure loading and unloading operations associated with the assets such as excavators haul trucks loaders. To communicate the event to the monitoring device the sensors can also utilize short range radio communications protocol e.g. IEEE 802.15.X IEEE 802.15.4 or other short range wireless technologies . A sensor can be a fuel air mixture sensor. A sensor can monitor motor exhaust for various components of the exhaust gas. A sensor can detect oil quality or oil pressure or time since last oil change. A sensor can measure engine speed rpm or hours of operation. A sensor can measure fuel level. Other fault detection can be sensed by sensor .

For example in a scraper the wires can be utilized to transmit electrical signals when the apron opens and or closes and ejector door extends and or retracts. The wires can also be utilized to transmit signal back to the monitoring device when for example the operator of the asset engages various controls. Thus the components of the monitoring system can be combined to enable the transmission of GPS position data events alarms and sensor inputs to the monitoring system provider via a satellite and or cellular network. Data can be stored by the monitoring system for a period of time until a transmission can be made.

The sensor can also be used to determine utilization of the asset. The sensor can sense the movement of part of the asset. In an example the part is different that the prime mover e.g. a motor. The part can be a lift mechanism an arm or other part that is not in a certain determinable position when the asset is in use. In an example the sensor can be a contact sensor that determines if part of the asset is not in a home or rest i.e. non utilization position. In a further example the sensor senses when a person is on the asset controlling the asset or at a specific location. The sensor can be switch that must be activated by the user for the asset to work. When activated the sensor senses an utilization event.

The isolation relay and the adjustable relay can be utilized to regulate the information transmitted and received from the monitoring device . In some example embodiments only the adjustable relay is needed to provide a signal to ground contact closure while monitoring the transmission between the monitoring system and the monitoring system provider .

The isolation relay can allow a determination to be made as to whether the asset is operational. All of the example components of the monitoring system can be provided inside the enclosure . The enclosure is in an example a metal housing that is sealed against dirt grime dust and moisture that are generated at building construction sites road construction sites and in agriculture. It will be noted that the monitoring system is not bound to a particular monitoring system provider. Any hardware that can successfully interface with the monitoring system can be utilized as the monitoring system provider . The monitoring system can in some example embodiments be specifically designed for the asset .

The processor s operate to control various operations of the asset. In an example the processor is an electronic device to process received signals and output control signals to control operation of a component of the asset. An example of a processor is an engine controller. Processors can be microcontrollers and or electronic control units ECUs . Electronic control units can be made from programmable logic controllers and or programmable gate arrays. In an example a main processor is provided and it controls other processors in a master slave configurations. Processor s can further operate without a master processor. In operation the processor receives a sensed signal from a sensor regarding the operation of the asset. The processor applies stored instructions to the sensed data and outputs a control signal to a component of the asset or stores the operational data in a memory.

A bus provides a data communication path between the devices . In an example bus is a serial bus e.g. Modbus or ethernet. The bus can also be a controller area network e.g. CAN bus CAN open SAE J1939 CAN bus. A controller area network is a multi master broadcast serial bus standard for connecting electronic control units ECUs such as a processor to other electronic devices.

As shown in the method A can commence at operation with the data communication module receiving data related to the operation of the asset . The data received by the communication module can include the positional and operational data associated with the asset . The positional data can be obtained using the position navigation system e.g. Global Positioning System GPS or a cellular triangulation system by the monitoring system installed on the asset and transmitted to the monitoring system provider . The positional and the operational data can be made available over a network from the monitoring system service provider using an appropriate protocol e.g. Web Services .

Examples of operational data include but are not limited to velocity direction an ignition key ON event an ignition key OFF event a door open event a door closed event a location a fuel efficiency e.g. fuel burn calculation an idle time a production statistics a preventive maintenance schedule a maintenance history a cycle time a utilization time period a fault data and an alarm data. The positional and the operational data can be received via a cellular and or a satellite network at the monitoring system service provider and then pulled by the monitoring system processor .

In some examples described above information can not be transmitted immediately from the monitoring system to the monitoring service provider due to for example a temporary unavailability of the satellite and or the cellular network . The monitoring system can store information until communication over one of the networks between the monitoring system and the monitoring system service provider is restored. If the communication is disrupted due to the asset moving out of the coverage area the monitoring system can be removed from the asset and brought back into the coverage area. Alternatively the asset can be moved into the coverage area. Once the communications are restored the monitoring system can transmit information to the monitoring service provider .

At operation the data interpreting module of the monitoring system processor can interpret the positional data in view of the operational data to accurately determine characteristics of the asset . At operation the data interpreting module of the monitoring system processor can perform analysis of the operational characteristic in view of a stored target to produce a performance output.

The stored target can be related to the asset and or to a site specific data related. In some example embodiments a relationship between the performance output and the site specific data can be included in the reports .

The data interpreting module of the monitoring system processor can intelligently interpret the positional data of the asset in view of the operational data. Any event having a low probability of occurring in view of the positional data associated with the asset or in view of one or more of other events occurring in the same or nearly the same time can be eliminated as false. For example the data analyzing module can determine that at the time of the reported loading event the asset was not operational or operational for a period of time which is too short for the loading to occur.

Thus the reported loading event can be eliminate as false if the data related to the ignition status shows that the asset was still in the warm up phase. In another example embodiment the data analyzing module can compare the performance data of the asset to the positional data to determine whether at the time of the reported events the asset was present at the respective job site. If the asset was not present at the respective job site the reported event can be eliminated as false. In some example embodiments the data analyzing module can analyze the performance data to ensure that each loading event is followed by an unloading event and vice versa.

In some example embodiments invalid loading events can also be eliminated when a determination is made by the data analyzing module comparing the performance data of the asset to the positional data that asset has not moved between two events. Furthermore invalid loading events can also be eliminated when the analyzing module determines that the time period elapsed between the consecutive loading events is less that a predetermined time period.

It will be understood that various filter values can be associated with particular events and particular type and location of the asset. The filters can be adjusted by a user per each different asset. It will be further understood that operators of the monitoring data processor or a customer can be provided with an ability to set other criteria to intelligently analyze performance data of the asset . The information can be processed and sent for interpretations and analysis in near real time.

At operation a report generating module of the monitoring system processor can provide a report that includes the operational characteristic and the performance output. In some example embodiments the report can be accessed by an authorized user via a computer interface. In some other example embodiments a digital copy of the report can be sent to a predetermined user via an electronic mail. The report can summarize the performance output of the asset or be related to a specific area of operational characteristics. For example the report can be related to production data associated with the asset .

The report related to the production data can include but is not limited to cycle times number of loads an amount of material moved time of operation and costs associated with the asset . The report can be related to utilization data associated with the asset. The report related to the utilization data can include an idle time an amount of fuel consumed and an amount of fuel remaining in the asset. The report can be related to maintenance data associated with the asset. The report related to the maintenance data can include a date of an upcoming service a type of the upcoming service a location of the asset and a part associated with the upcoming service. The report can also be related to health data associated with the asset. The report related to the health data associated with the asset can include an alarm and a fault associated with the asset .

Databases stored at either at the operator s computer or the authorized user s computer as well as the monitoring system database can store the reports generated according to the methods and systems described herein. The databases are stored on tangible computer readable media such are magnetic media electronic storage devices optical storage devices etc.

At operational data is created. The operational data includes data that directly relates to operation of the asset. Examples of operational data that may be described in greater detail in this document include running time hydraulic activation door opening s door closing s loading events engine operation among others.

At additional data is sensed separate from the operational data. In an example the additional data is positional data that can be sensed and reported by a device associated with the asset but physically separate from the asset per se e.g. a mobile phone of the asset operator. In an example the additional data include position data and time data. The optional data can be automatically sent from the device e.g. device of .

At the additional data and the data relating to the operation of the asset are received. The data can be received from two different communication routes as the additional data is created by a device physically or electrically separate from the asset. The combined operational data and the additional data will include the data needed for processing interpretation analysis and reporting as described in this document.

At data interpretation occurs on the received data of step . Similar modules hardware and instructions as described above with regard to step can be used.

At interpreted data is analyzed to produce asset performance output. Similar modules hardware and instructions as described above with regard to step can be used.

At a report is created and provided that includes the performance output. Similar modules hardware and instructions as described above with regard to step can be used.

At an optional step is described. The generated report can be provided to a mobile device e.g. the device that created the additional data of step . Accordingly the operator of the asset can receive reports at an electronic device e.g. device .

At a further optional step is described. The electronic device can send feedback data from the mobile device back into the monitoring system. This data can be feedback into the receiving interpreting analyzing reporting loop to produce a report with further information. In an example the mobile device of a user receives a report and queries the user for additional information e.g. image of current location image of job site location of asset etc. This request can be an electronic form or template or other visual indicator for the displayed on the mobile device.

The monitoring system can collect information based on certain criteria provided by the monitoring system service provider and hardware configuration of the monitoring system and the asset . At operation the information collected by the monitoring system can be transferred to the monitoring system service provider via the satellite network or and cellular network and or a direct communication. At operation the monitoring system processor can pull the information from the monitoring system provider using for example a Web Service protocol. At operation the monitoring system processor can process the information pulled from the monitoring system provider and produce a report for an authorized user e.g. a customer .

In an example the asset can include dirt moving equipment such as a scraper. The scraper can include various controls such as apron and ejector doors controls to move dirt. To record production information or to calculate cycle times both timing of the apron and ejector doors operations can be recorded and processed.

In a typical scraper loading scenario the apron can be initially raised to permit the bowl to scrape across the ground and all of the material to accumulate. The ejector is retracted fully to allow the maximum amount of material to be loaded. After the asset is loaded the apron can be closed to secure the material from falling out on the trip to the unloading area. During the loading cycle the apron door can be monitored and when the last apron movement is completed a Done Loading event can be recorded and stored for future analysis. When the scraper gets to the unloading area the operator can raise the apron and begin moving the ejector door forward to push the material out of the scraper and onto the ground. Once the ejector door stops extending an event can be recorded as the Done Unloading event. By analyzing these two events the following information can be calculated a round trip distance distance to load distance to unload a number of loads average travel time to between load and unload average travel time to load area and unload area and average cycle time.

The area can define a valid event sensing area within which events are sensed that occur to an asset or that the asset itself performs. While only showed as a single area by one circumference it will be understood that two areas could be used one for a first event e.g. loading or warm up and a second for unloading. Further areas may be defined for other events e.g. fueling work breaks etc. Different logic rules can be applied to data sensed at each area to validate the data and remove faulty or erroneous data. The filtering can limit the data to only data at the work site s . This data can be filtered at the monitoring system or at the monitoring system processor or both. The filtered data can be processed as described herein and provided to the worksite device s e.g. to computing devices and may be in the form of a report .

In a further example the data generated at an asset can be filtered based on the task being performed by the asset . In the case where the asset is a truck it is known where the location of the load event and the location of the unload event. These events will only be valid in these locations and for these given tasks. The assets may further perform different tasks that alter the logic rules that are applied to filter or analysis the data. In an example the asset may be tasked with hauling sand during one time period hauling gravel during a second time period and hauling top soil during a third time period. The location whereat these events may change. Moreover the asset may travel through other locations that may not be valid for the particular task being performed but are valid for other tasks. The filtering rules must change to reflect the different work locations whereat valid events occur. Moreover the quantity of material being acted upon by the asset may be different for each task. This must be taken into account when preparing reports.

The assets can further report data relative movement of the assets. In an example a first asset performs a task that must be complete before a second asset can complete its task. In an example an asset is a mobile loading device that must load a mobile trucking device before the trucking device can move a load and then dump the load. The position of each asset can be monitored. In the case of a loading device it s position in the loading area and its position relative to the load receiving device can be sensed. This sensed data can be used to filter data from the load receiving device. For example if the load receiving device is stationary and repeatedly approached by the loading device then a sensed unload event would be filtered as invalid data. In an example the relay that would allow reporting of such an erroneous event can be held in the open position so that any signal communicating an unload event is filtered from the data set and can be discarded or flagged for further investigation. The loading device can produce loading signals that are generated by on board sensors that sense operation of loading structures. The real time loading position for the mobile loading device relative to the work site can be sensed as the mobile loading device moves in the work site. This data can be correlated to the load receiving device and used to filter data. The mobile loading device can include sensors to sense its forward and reverse movements transmission position position of its loading structures or cycles of its movement transmission or positions The position of its loading structures can be in three dimensional space.

A processing program performing analysis of data at the monitoring system processor can filter out some data and create a report in a format that can be easily understood by an authorized user. In some example embodiments target values can be used e.g. number of loads each day average cycle time machine cost revenue per yard to perform analysis and provide additional analysis in view of the target values. Such report can present clear information of operations performed on a jobsite. Thus one or more reports generated by the monitoring system processor can provide customers many useful details regarding operations of their assets.

The method may commence at operation with an operator of the asset turning the ignition key on. The ignition on event can determine the start of the workday. In one example embodiment a load cycle commences with a valid loading event. A loading sensor can generate a loading on event when the sensor turns on. The ignition on event can be followed by the loading on event at operation and loading off event at operation . The loading off event can be generated based on the sensor input.

In the absence of an ignition on event the first loading event defined by loading on and loading off events can determine the start of the workday. At operation the timings of the loading on and loading off events can be received by the receiving module of the monitoring system processor described above with reference to .

Thereafter the analysis performing module can calculate the period of time elapsed between these events and determine whether the time is sufficient for a loading to occur. If the analysis performing module determines at operation that the time period between the loading on event and loading off events is insufficient for a loading to occur the method will proceed to operation in which the loading event will be declared invalid. In some example embodiments the operational logic can include a configurable on time filter. If the loading sensor is not active for a sufficient time period the loading event will be considered invalid.

If on the other hand the analysis performing module determines that sufficient time has elapsed between the loading on and loading of events the method can proceed to operation . At operation the analysis performing module can determine whether enough time has elapsed since the last unloading event. The operational logic may include a configurable time since unloading filter. Thus if not enough time has elapsed since the last valid unloading event the loading event will be considered invalid.

Timings of loading and unloading events may be recorded as described above with reference to . If the analysis performing module determines that not enough time has elapsed since the last unloading event the method can proceed to operation where the loading event can be declared invalid. Otherwise the method can proceed to .

At operation the analysis performing module based on the positional data received from the monitoring system may determine whether the asset has moved between the unloading and loading events. The production logic can include configurable asset movement filters. If the asset has not moved since the last valid ignition on event or unloading event the loading event will be considered invalid. The movement data can also be based on the data associated with the odometer feature of the monitoring device which is connected to the asset . However if the odometer resets or stops working such data may prove to be inaccurate.

If the analysis performing module decides that the asset has not sufficiently moved between the unloading and loading events the method may proceed to operation where the loading event is declared invalid. Thus loading events that have been rejected due to on time time since unloading or movement filters can be considered invalid and not considered to be a part of a load. If however all three above mentioned conditions are satisfied and it is determined that the loading event was performed over a sufficient period of time the time period between the last unloading and the loading event is sufficient and that the asset has moved sufficient distance between the unloading and loading events the loading event can be declared valid at operation . In other words if a loading event is not rejected by the on time time since unloading or movement filters it is considered a valid loading event. When multiple consecutive loading events occur the last valid loading event is considered to be part of the current load.

At operation the monitoring system processor may receive data associated with another loading event and the process may repeat starting with operation . Thus if the next event after either a valid or invalid loading event is another loading event then the new loading event validity will be determined by the on time time since unloading and movement filters. If on the other hand no data associated with another loading event is received at operation then the method may proceed to operation . If the filter determines that a valid loading event exists then the current load may be valid. If on the other hand there is no valid loading event then the current load is not valid.

At operation the analysis performing module may determine whether the loading event was declared invalid at operation . If the loading event is declared invalid at operation the method can proceed to operation and the load associated with the loading event will be declared invalid as well. If on the other hand the loading event is declared valid the method may proceed to operation . A valid load requires both a valid loading event and a valid unloading event. If the valid loading event is not followed by a valid unloading event the current load is not valid.

At operation the analysis performing module may determine based on the data received from the monitoring system whether the loading event is followed by an unloading event. If it is determined that the loading event is not followed by an unloading event the method can proceed to operation and the load associated with the loading event is declared invalid. If on the other hand the loading event is followed by an unloading even the method can proceed to operations and in which the data associated with the unloading on and the unloading off events is received by the data communication module of the monitoring system processor . An unloading sensor can generate an unloading on event when the sensor turns on. An unloading sensor can generate an unloading off event when the sensor turns off. Thereafter the method can proceed to operation shown in .

If on the other hand the analysis performing module determines that sufficient time has elapsed between the unloading on and unloading of events the method can proceed to operation . At operation the analysis performing module can determine whether enough time has elapsed since last loading. The production logic can include a configurable time since loading filters. If not enough time has elapsed since the last valid loading event the unloading event will be considered invalid. Thus if the analysis performing module determines that not enough time has elapsed since the last loading event the method can proceed to operation where the unloading event can be declared invalid. Otherwise the method can proceed to .

At operation the analysis performing module based on the positional data received from the monitoring system may determine whether the asset has moved between the loading and unloading events. The production logic can include a configurable asset movement filter. If according to the asset movement filter the asset has not moved since the last valid loading event the unloading event will be considered invalid. Thus if the analysis performing module decides that the asset has not sufficiently moved between the loading and unloading events the method may proceed to operation where the unloading event is declared invalid.

Unloading events that have been rejected due to on time time since loading or movement filters are considered invalid and are not considered part of the current load. If however all three above mentioned conditions are satisfied and it is determined that unloading event took sufficient time the time period between the last loading and the unloading events is sufficient and that the asset has moved sufficient distance between the loading and unloading events the loading event can be declared valid at operation . In other words if an unloading event is not rejected by the on time time since loading or movement filters it is considered a valid unloading event. In some example embodiments when multiple consecutive unloading events occur the last valid unloading event is considered to be part of the current load.

At operation the monitoring system processor may receive data associated with another unloading event and the process may repeat starting with operation . If the next event after either a valid or invalid unloading event is another unloading event the new unloading event validity will be determined by the on time time since loading and movement filters. If on the other hand no data associated with another unloading event is received at operation the method may proceed to operation . Thus if the filter determines that a valid unloading event exists then the current load is valid. If there is no valid unloading event then the current load is invalid. At operation the analysis performing module may determine whether the unloading event was declared invalid at operation . If the unloading event was declared invalid at operation the method can proceed to operation and the load associated with the unloading event will be declared invalid. In other words if there is not a valid loading event and a valid unloading event then the current load is declared invalid. If on the other hand the unloading event was valid the method may proceed to operation .

At operation the load associated with the loading and unloading event is added to a count the count parameter value is incremented by one . Thus if there is a valid loading event and a valid unloading event the current load is valid and is counted toward the asset production for the site where the loading event occurred. The method can then proceed to operation in which it can be determined whether the unloading event is followed by another loading event. If there is another loading event then the production logic can determine whether another valid load occurs. If no other loading event occurs then no additional load is counted.

If it is determined that another loading event follows the method may proceed to operation and the operations described above repeated. If on the other hand no loading event follows the receiving module can in operation receive data indicating that the engine ignition is off. The ignition off event can determine the end of the workday. If at operation it is determined that the ignition on event follows the ignition off event the method may proceed to operation and the operations described above repeated. In the event of another ignition on event the production logic can determine whether another valid load occurs. If on the other hand it is determined at operation that no ignition on event follows engine ignition off event the method proceeds to operation in which production is completed. The last ignition off event can designate completion of the work day.

A system machine or method as described herein may filter at least one of the machine or asset operational data location data or derived data. The filter can be a machine module that implements instructions in an electronic computing device. Such instructions can be stored in a machine readable media. The filter can use a processor to apply logic rules to the data to improve accuracy. In some examples the filter can eliminate over 90 of falsely sensed or derived events. In an example the filter can act to determine that the event is invalid based on one or more of the following a period of time between the beginning of the event and the ending of the event the period of time since the last event the distance moved since the last event. The filter can further act to determine if at least one of a cycle time a number of loads an amount of material moved a time of operation and costs associated with the asset are valid using historical data of the machine or a work site. The filter can further act to eliminate data outside a location at a work site. The filter can act to determine if the machine can perform the machine operational data using the worksite data. The worksite data can include for example a given location a given time or reference to other worksite data.

The production report can include but not limited to cycle times number of loads per day amount of the material moved each day machine hours and machine costs. The maintenance report can include machine hours timing of scheduled services types of scheduled services location of the asset details of the scheduled services e.g. maintenance operations parts required etc. . The health report can include machine performance indicators information on any alarms that have been triggered or any other issues with the asset .

Generally red color corresponds to the data in need of most urgent attendance yellow to the data in need of less urgent attendance and green to the data that appears to be normal. The management report can also include a summary section which can include fields summarizing the data for all assets and sites analyzed. Thus the summary field can include an efficiency field a total yards moved field and a utilization field and a fuel efficiency field .

In some example embodiments the management report can be provided to the owners of the respective assets. The data from each site can be summarized and combined into the management report . This allows the owner to easily see the problem areas on their jobsites.

The example computer system includes a processor or multiple processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both and a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system can further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal displays LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a computer readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. instructions embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions can also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processors during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processors also constitute machine readable media.

The instructions can further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP CAN Serial or Modbus .

While the computer readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present application or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals. Such media can also include without limitation hard disks floppy disks flash memory cards digital video disks random access memory RAMs read only memory ROMs and the like.

The example embodiments described herein can be implemented in an operating environment comprising computer executable instructions e.g. software installed on a computer in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware. The computer executable instructions can be written in a computer programming language or can be embodied in firmware logic. If written in a programming language conforming to a recognized standard such instructions can be executed on a variety of hardware platforms and for interfaces to a variety of operating systems. Although not limited thereto computer software programs for implementing the present method can be written in any number of suitable programming languages such as for example Hyper text Markup Language HTML Dynamic HTML Extensible Markup Language XML Extensible Stylesheet Language XSL Document Style Semantics and Specification Language DSSSL Cascading Style Sheets CSS Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language SMIL Wireless Markup Language WML Java Jini C C Perl UNIX Shell Visual Basic or Visual Basic Script Virtual Reality Markup Language VRML Objective C .Net Java Script ColdFusion or other compilers assemblers interpreters or other computer languages or platforms.

The above disclosure refers to position navigation systems and Global Positioning System GPS . It is within the scope of the present invention to use other types of navigational positioning systems including the GPS IIF system. Other systems can include Beidou COMPASS Galileo GLONASS Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System IRNSS or QZSS. Moreover these systems can use Real Time Kinematic RTK satellite navigation to provide the real time corrections of the positioning signal down to a meter or centimeter level of accuracy. The systems can also use differential correction signals in North American from the FAA s WAAS satellites. Accordingly references herein solely to GPS should be read to as general position navigation systems.

The above examples refer to mobile assets. However the present invention can be adapted to receive data from stationary assets as well. Examples of stationary assets can include power generation industrial pumping fluids water oil gas etc. industrial motors filters groundwater testing waste treatment monitoring e.g. runoff tailing ponds pollution controls etc. and other equipment used in the construction mining and transportation industries. The data from these stationary assets can be incorporated into the reports and provide further indications of productivity failure maintenance operating characteristics etc. which can be the same data and reports as described herein except there is no movement data.

It is further recognized by the present inventor that there is a need for methods and systems for calculation utilization on mobile equipment. The mobile equipment asset or equipment as described herein can be construction industrial or agricultural related equipment. When reporting utilization on mobile equipment there are issues with determining true equipment utilization. A method for utilization calculation can usually be running time of an engine or motor over a period of time. The problem with such an approach is that just because the prime mover engine or motor is not running does not necessarily mean that equipment is not in use and therefore being utilized. This is specifically true with certain types of construction equipment such as aerial work platforms and material handling equipment equipment with an independent component . Independent components are defined as pieces or components of an asset or equipment that perform or provide work functionality independent from engine status or use of the prime mover. Independent components often include aerial components and material handling components. Operators and personnel may be in the platforms or buckets i.e. aerial components performing work tasks and therefore this time should be part of the true utilizations of equipment e.g. a machine as well as the time the prime mover is in operation.

In the case of material handling materials or equipment may be lifted in the air with the prime mover off and therefore still being utilized. This time as well as the running time of the machine needs to be accounted for to calculate true utilization.

The methods and systems described herein can include methodologies and structures to detect and report times where the equipment with aerial components e.g. the platform bucket or materials e.g. material handling components are in a working position or condition regardless of the status of the prime mover. In an example the prime mover can also be part of a methodology to determine utilization.

In an example people or materials are lifted into the air for periods of time. Types of such lifting equipment or aerial components include but are not limited to 

aerial work platforms electric motor driven and combustion engine engine driven booms lifts articulated boom lifts telescopic boom lifts electric boom lifts trailer boom lifts personnel boom lifts boom trucks cherry pickers bucket trucks scissor lifts engine driven scissor lifts and electrical scissor lifts.

In an example material s is lifted into the air for periods of time or moved. Types of such material handling equipment or material handling components of equipment include but are not limited to 

There are different potential methods to determine if the equipment is being utilized on the above equipment types or similar equipment types.

In the case of aerial work platforms e.g. scissor lifts and bucket trucks there are various methodologies to determine how and time that the equipment is being utilized.

1 Engine or motor running. If a motor or engine is running it is expected the unit is running. Such a method can also use idling effects as a factor to utilization. On off idling and even rotations per minute can be characterized as engine status. Detecting and then monitoring engine status is a first threshold test of whether the asset may be in use.

2 Detect and monitor if a person is in or in proximity to the bucket or any aerial component . This could be accomplished by methods including 

Utilizing one or more motion sensors to detect if regular motion occurs in bucket or platform. One or more heat sensors can be positioned to detect the presence and activity of a worker or user. One or more load sensors can detect the weight of a user on a bucket or other aerial component. One or more sensors can be attached to or integrated with a safety harness to detect a person s presence or activity.

In addition a light beam or light curtain sensor can detect a person in a bucket to cut beam. A safety switch i.e. foot pedal safety switch or utilization switch can be used prompting a user to interact with the switch. Detecting whether user controls are engaged can also indicate use such as foot pedals or bucket controls.

3 Detect and monitor if boom platform bucket scissor or other aerial component is out of rest position and is in the air. This could be accomplished by methods and structures including 

monitoring of platform out of rest position or stored position limit switch existing or added proximity switch out of stowed position light beam light curtain load cell boom platform boom arm and bucket at rest.

Further methods and structures can include monitoring height of platform to detect in usage using angle sensor or tilt switch on boom angle sensor or tilt switch on scissor arm hydraulic ram length monitoring laser encoder to determine height from base to platform.

In the case of material handlers there are methods and structures to determine if equipment is being utilized. This could be accomplished by methods and structures including 

1 Engine or motor running engine status . If a motor or engine is running is expected the unit is running and being utilized. In an embodiment idling effects on utilization can be a factor to utilization.

2 Detect and monitor if materials are in being used by machine i.e. asset or equipment . Examples of such monitoring and detecting include one or more of a load sensor detection on forks or other material handling components forks or material are elevated and not in rest position limit switch forks out of rest position hydraulic pressure sensor limit switch on hydraulic ram angle tilt sensor on telehandler boom limit switch boom out of rest position proximity switch boom out of rest position and or manual utilization switch switched by equipment operator.

For both aerial and material handling components positional data as discussed previously can also be utilized. The positional of the independent component in relation to another object or work site can indicate use or become a threshold detection question. Positional data for the component and second object or site can be calculated and compared for analysis.

With reference to utilization events can be tracked and determined. The utilization events are then used to determine and or calculate the utilization of an asset e.g. a machine equipment construction device. To calculate these working or utilized times or events the above sensors can be positioned in or on an asset . In an example the asset user device can be used as the sensor. The asset user device can use its accelerometer positioned determination system e.g. GPS or other sensor to determine movement or change in status of the asset. The sensed information by the asset and or the asset user device can be used along with inputs that would go into the monitoring system . As described herein the monitoring system can be in electrical communication with the wiring harness and or be part of sensors .

These inputs would be used in the monitoring system to determine utilized event and or set a utilization timer. These utilization sensors and inputs would be used to trigger a utilization event or timer. See example process flow for calculating a utilized event as shown in .

After a start of the process flow it is determined if the prime mover is running check engine status . If YES then the process determines that a utilization event is occurring. The process can then keep the time that the prime mover is running. Monitoring such as substantially continually or intermittently can be performed at any detection step. If NO then the process determines the type of sensor that is on the machine. This step can also be preprogrammed in the circuitry of the asset. An example decision is whether the equipment has a platform bucket e.g. a moveable part of the asset or other independent component or a user activated device such as a switch or lever. If YES the process then determines if the asset is being controlled from the platform or bucket. A user presence can also be detected and monitored. If NO then it is determined that the asset is not being utilized and no utilization event has occurred. If YES then the process determines if the utilization sensor input or determination device is active or triggered. If YES then it is determined that a utilization event has occurred and utilization of the asset is underway.

Returning to the process step of determining the type of sensor that is on the machine if the answer is NO then the process moves to determining if the utilization sensor input or determination device is active or triggered. If YES then it is determined that a utilization event has occurred and utilization of the asset is underway. If NO then it is determined that the asset is not being utilized and no utilization event has occurred.

The monitoring system can transmit this raw or summarized information regarding utilization to the monitoring system processor to be used to generate utilization reports and or billing reports. The above process can be performed in hardware which can execute software instructions on the asset. In a further example the process is performed at least in part in a hardware which can execute software instructions remote from the asset.

An example of a scissor lift is found in U.S. Pat. No. 6 330 933 which is hereby incorporated by reference for any purpose. However if any part of document incorporated by reference conflicts with the express disclosure herein the present disclosure controls.

Embodiments of the present invention further include a method of monitoring an asset including an independent component the method including receiving at an electronic device data related to operation of an asset the data including utilization data of an independent component of the asset interpreting using a processor the utilization to determine an utilization or operational characteristic of the asset performing using a processor analysis of the utilization or operational characteristic in view of a stored target to produce a performance output filtering using a processor to improve accuracy and providing a report that includes the operational characteristic and or utilization output wherein utilization data of the independent component is generated by detecting the engine status of a prime mover of the asset detecting a position of the independent component wherein the independent component provides work functionality independent of the engine status.

The at least one machine operational data can be collected by a monitoring system installed on the asset the monitoring system including a monitoring device and sensors. The machine operational data can include one or more of the following positional data engine status a velocity a direction a key on event a key off event a door open event a door closed event a location a fuel efficiency an idle time a production statistics a preventive maintenance schedule a maintenance history a cycle time a utilization time period a fault data and an alarm data.

The receiving at an electronic device data related to operation of an asset includes receiving at a mobile device positional data operational data or both from an asset.

The mobile device can be a mobile telephone and the telephone sends or receives positional data operational data and control functions to or from the asset. Examples of control functions include operational control alarms display prompts or audio prompts for example.

Further embodiments include a method of monitoring utilization of equipment including an independent component comprising 

The method can also include detecting the presence of a user in proximity to the independent component of the equipment or the user controls of the independent component of the equipment. User controls can include a foot pedal or bucket controls for example.

After detecting the engine status monitoring the engine status continually or intermittently can be performed. After detecting the presence of a user or the position of the independent component monitoring the presence of a user continually or intermittently can also be performed.

An embodiment includes a computer readable medium including instructions which when executed by one or more processors perform the following operations receive data related to operation of an asset the data including utilization data of an independent component interpret the utilization data to determine an operational characteristic of the machine filter at least one of the utilization data and operational characteristic to improve accuracy perform analysis of the operational characteristic in view of a stored target to produce a performance output and provide a report that includes the operational characteristic and the utilization output.

The utilization data of the independent component is generated by detecting the engine status of a prime mover of the asset detecting a position of the independent component wherein the independent component provides work functionality independent of the engine status.

Creating operational data on a device separate from the positional data and sending additional data from a mobile device associated and removable from the machine can also be performed.

An example of a lift device is described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2009 0183927 which is hereby incorporated by reference for any purpose. However if any part of document incorporated by reference conflicts with the express disclosure herein the present disclosure controls.

An example of a lift device is described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2009 0146828 which is hereby incorporated by reference for any purpose. However if any part of document incorporated by reference conflicts with the express disclosure herein the present disclosure controls.

The determination of the utilization of the prime mover is described herein. On example of how to determine run time of a motor can be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 822 930 3 965 669 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011 0227744 which are hereby incorporated by reference for any purpose. However if any part of documents incorporated by reference conflicts with the express disclosure herein the present disclosure controls.

Other patent documents that generally relate to the present disclosure are U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2009 0015422 and 2009 0140872 which are hereby incorporated by reference for any purpose. However if any part of documents incorporated by reference conflicts with the express disclosure herein the present disclosure controls.

Thus a method for asset information reporting and method for calculation of utilization of mobile equipment have been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes can be made to these example embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the present application. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

