---

title: Methods and apparatus for use in facilitating communications over first and second wireless connections of a wireless transceiver
abstract: A wireless communication device includes a first wireless transceiver and a second wireless transceiver. The wireless device is configured for communicating via the first transceiver over a first connection with a first device, where communications to and from the wireless device are addressed with a first hardware address assigned to the first transceiver. The wireless device is further configured for communicating via the first transceiver over a second connection with a second device, where communications to and from the wireless device are addresses with a second hardware address assigned to the second transceiver. The first transceiver may be configured for communications in accordance with IEEE 802.11, and the second transceiver may be configured for communications in accordance with BLUETOOTH®. The first connection may be a wireless local area network (WLAN) infrastructure connection, and the second connection may be a WiFi Peer-to-Peer (P2P) connection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08718558&OS=08718558&RS=08718558
owner: Blackberry Limited
number: 08718558
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120418
---
The present disclosure relates generally to communication devices configured for wireless communications such as IEEE 802.11 type communications including techniques for facilitating communications over first and second wireless connections of a wireless transceiver.

A wireless communication device such as a portable battery powered wireless telephony device may be configured to communicate in wireless communication networks. For example such a device may communicate via access points APs of wireless local area networks WLANs in accordance with IEEE 802.11 standards or the like. Such devices may also communicate using peer to peer communication techniques for example in accordance with the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification and or be certified as a Wi Fi Direct device.

A wireless communication device of the present disclosure includes a first wireless transceiver and a second wireless transceiver. The wireless device is configured for communicating via the first wireless transceiver over a first wireless connection with a first device where communications to and from the wireless device are addressed with a first universally administered hardware address assigned to the first wireless transceiver. The wireless device is further configured for communicating via the first wireless transceiver over a second wireless connection with a second device where communications to and from the wireless device are addressed with a second universally administered hardware address assigned to the second wireless transceiver. The first and second hardware addresses may be Media Access Control MAC addresses of the first and the second wireless transceivers respectively. In some embodiments the first wireless transceiver may be configured for communications in accordance with an IEEE 802.11 standard and the second wireless transceiver may be configured for communications in accordance with a BLUETOOTH standard. The first wireless connection may be a wireless local area network WLAN infrastructure or WLAN STA connection and the second wireless connection may be a WiFi Peer to Peer P2P connection. Thus in some embodiments the wireless device may utilize the MAC address of the IEEE 802.11 transceiver for identifying the device in association with WLAN STA connections of the IEEE 802.11 transceiver and utilize the MAC address of the BLUETOOTH transceiver for identifying the device in association with Wi Fi P2P connections of the IEEE 802.11 transceiver. The first and the second wireless connections may be concurrent wireless connections.

To illustrate one environment within which the techniques of the present disclosure may be practiced illustrates a wireless communication device which may communicate in a communication system . In the communication system wireless device may communicate with one or more wireless communication networks. For example wireless device may communicate with a wireless communication network which is a wireless local area network WLAN . Here wireless network and wireless device may operate in accordance with IEEE 802.11 standards.

In this example wireless network has a plurality of wireless access points APs and for wireless communications with wireless device . WLANs may be identified by a wireless device with use of a wireless network identifier which is communicated from the WLAN. The wireless network identifier may be for example a Set Service Identifier SSID or Extended SSID ESSID . In this example wireless network includes one or more servers a redirect server and a gateway . Server may provide data applications and or functionality for communication services for wireless device .

Wireless network may be a public Wi Fi hotspot for public use and include what may be referred to as a captive portal or walled garden. For devices connected in wireless network via one of wireless APs and gateway is configured to permit or deny access to the data applications and or functionality as well as to permit or deny external access outside of wireless network to Internet . To do this gateway has a set of IP address filters which define a set of addresses that are permissible impermissible if any at all for access by devices. Access by a device depends on whether or not a device has been authorized and what access rights are given upon authorization.

Typically when a request by a device in wireless network is made prior to proper authorization gateway is configured to redirect the request to redirect server . In response redirect server is configured to respond to wireless device to provide data for producing information e.g. Web page information which is rendered in a visual display of wireless device via a Web browser application. The information may solicit a user response. For example the information may solicit a user registration or login with user fields for entering a user name and or password information. Gateway identifies whether the received user response is sufficient e.g. whether the user name and password match prestored user name and password information whether the user payment is accepted whether the user acceptance is confirmed etc. . If the user response is deemed sufficient gateway permits access to the data applications and or functionality in or outside of wireless network .

Wireless device may also operate for communications in other different wireless networks such as a wireless network which is also a WLAN. In this example wireless network is a private communication network of an enterprise e.g. an organization a company a corporation etc. of wireless device . Similar to wireless network wireless network has a plurality of wireless APs and one or more servers and a gateway . For devices connected in wireless network via one of wireless APs and gateway may be configured to permit or deny access to the data applications and or functionality offered via wireless network depending on whether or not a device has been authorized and what access rights are given upon authorization. For devices attempting to access wireless network via Internet gateway is configured to permit or deny internal access to the data applications and or functionality in wireless network .

Such wireless networks e.g. infrastructure WLANs may provide or allow access to various data and communication services to its terminals. For example the wireless networks may provide for communication access to Internet via the Web browser application or voice telephony communication service with use of Voice over IP VoIP communication or other communication services. For push type data or message synchronization services for example wireless device may be enabled to maintain data synchronization with a server e.g. server or for user data of an application associated with a user account. The application of wireless device and the server may be or include for example an electronic mail e mail application program for the communication of e mail messages.

Wireless device may be additionally configured to access communication services via a Public Land Wireless Network PLMN e.g. a cellular telecommunications network . PLMN includes a core network a plurality of base station controllers such as a base station controller BSC coupled to core network and a plurality of base stations such as a base station BS and a base station coupled to associated BSCs . Core network BSC and BS operate in a conventional fashion as well documented. Other PLMNs in the environment have a similar or the same architecture as PLMN . For communication with PLMNs wireless device may be configured in accordance with one or more cellular telecommunication standards such as Global Systems for Mobile GSM and or General Packet Radio Service GPRS technologies. However such wireless device may additionally or alternatively operate in accordance with other such cellular standards such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE or Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE or EVolution Data Only EV DO for CDMA technologies as a few examples.

Further in additional to being operative for communications with infrastructure WLANs e.g. IEEE 802.11 infrastructure WLANs wireless device may additionally or alternatively communicate using peer to peer communication techniques for example in accordance with the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification and or be certified as a Wi Fi Direct device. The Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Accordingly illustrating further in wireless device and one or more other wireless devices and in may be operative to establish Wi Fi P2P wireless network connections with each other in a Wi Fi P2P wireless network. Here one of the communicate devices may be configured to enter into an AP mode of operation so that other communication devices may associate with them for direct RF communications therebetween. An AP mode of operation which may be referred to as a wireless AP mode or the like provides a benefit due to the high data rates available over WLAN links. Here again data may be communicated directly between the wireless devices without the data traversing any wireless network infrastructure where one of the devices is set to operate or serve as an AP switching operation from as an end terminal and the other device operates as an end terminal to associate and connect with the AP i.e. wireless device operating as an AP for communications. Wireless device may operate such that when in the AP mode of operation with other communication devices and it also operates as a client with another AP.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates one example of a schematic block diagram of wireless device in which example embodiments may be applied. In the illustrated example embodiment wireless device is a communication device and more particularly is a mobile communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and configured to communicate with other computer systems e.g. via the Internet . It will however be appreciated that wireless device may take other forms.

Depending on the functionality provided by wireless device in various example embodiments wireless device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computers such as a watch a tablet computer such as a slate computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system. Wireless device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device and in some cases as a device.

Wireless device includes a controller including one or more processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of wireless device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor is communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as a display and or a speaker and or electromagnetic EM radiation source one or more input interfaces such as a camera microphone keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a navigational input device not shown and or a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen display an orientation subsystem memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port a near field communications NFC subsystem a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

In at least some example embodiments wireless device may include a touchscreen display which acts as both an input interface i.e. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. In at least some example embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may have a touch sensitive input surface which is larger than the display . For example in at least some example embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend overtop of a frame of which surrounds the display . In such example embodiments the frame of may be referred to as an active frame since it is capable of acting as an input interface . In at least some example embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend to the sides of wireless device .

As noted above in some example embodiments wireless device may include a communication subsystem which allows wireless device to communicate over wireless network . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to wireless device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on wireless network in which wireless device is intended to operate.

In at least some example embodiments wireless device may communicate with any one of a plurality of stations or access points APs of wireless network within its geographic coverage area. Wireless device may send and receive communication signals over wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP .. These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. Wireless device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on wireless device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of wireless device by providing for information or software downloads to wireless device other than through wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto wireless device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In at least some example embodiments wireless device also includes a device orientation subsystem including at least one orientation sensor which is connected to the processor and which is controlled by one or a combination of a monitoring circuit and operating software. The orientation sensor detects the orientation of the device or information from which the orientation of the device can be determined such as acceleration. In some example embodiments the orientation sensor is an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer. An accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output . Accelerometers may be available in one two or three axis configurations. Higher order axis configurations are also possible. Accelerometers may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer.

An orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of wireless device . The orientation data in at least some example embodiments specifies the orientation of the device relative to the gravitational field of the earth.

In some example embodiments the orientation subsystem may include other orientation sensors instead of or in addition to accelerometers. For example in various example embodiments the orientation subsystem may include a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensor or combinations thereof. In some example embodiments the device orientation subsystem may include two or more orientation sensors such as an accelerometer and an electronic compass.

Wireless device may in at least some example embodiments include a near field communications NFC subsystem . The NFC subsystem is configured to communicate with other wireless devices and or tags using an NFC communications protocol. NFC is a set of short range wireless technologies which typically require a distance of 4 cm or less for communications. The NFC subsystem may include an NFC chip and an NFC antenna.

Wireless device may include a microphone and or one or more speakers. In at least some example embodiments wireless device may include a plurality of speakers . For example in some example embodiments wireless device may include two or more speakers . The two or more speakers may for example be disposed in spaced relation to one another. That is in at least some example embodiments wireless device may include a first speaker and a second speaker and the first speaker and the second speaker may be spatially separated from one another within wireless device . In at least some example embodiments the display may be disposed between the first speaker and the second speaker of the electronic device. In such example embodiments the first speaker may be located at one side of the display and the second speaker may be located at another side of the display which is opposite the side of the display where the first speaker is located. For example the first speaker may be disposed at a left side of the display and the second speaker may be disposed at a right side of the display. In at least some example embodiments each speaker may be associated with a separate audio channel. The multiple speakers may for example be used to provide stereophonic sound which may also be referred to as stereo .

Wireless device may also include one or more cameras . The one or more cameras may be capable of capturing images in the form of still photographs or motion video. In at least some example embodiments wireless device includes a front facing camera . A front facing camera is a camera which is generally located on a front face of wireless device . The front face is typically the face on which a display is mounted. That is the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of wireless device where the camera is directed. The front facing camera may be located anywhere on the front surface of the electronic device for example the camera may be located above or below the display . The camera may be a fixed position camera which is not movable relative to the display of wireless device and or the housing of wireless device . In such example embodiments the direction of capture of the camera is always predictable relative to the display and or the housing. In at least some example embodiments the camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face.

In at least some example embodiments wireless device includes an electromagnetic EM radiation source . In at least some example embodiments the EM radiation source is configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the side of the electronic device which is associated with a camera of that wireless device . For example where the camera is a front facing camera wireless device may be configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the front face of wireless device . That is in at least some example embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source is configured to emit radiation in a direction which may visible by the camera. That is the camera and the electromagnetic radiation source may be disposed on wireless device so that electromagnetic radiation emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source is visible in images obtained by the camera.

In some example embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source may be an infrared IR radiation source which is configured to emit infrared radiation. In at least some example embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source may be configured to emit radiation which is not part of the visible spectrum. The camera may be a camera which is configured to capture radiation of the type emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source . Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the camera is configured to capture at least some electromagnetic radiation which is not in the visible spectrum.

In some example embodiments wireless device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their wireless device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for wireless network is automatically routed to wireless device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

Wireless device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in wireless device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides a regulated voltage V to the circuitry for powering wireless device .

Wireless device includes a short range communication subsystem which provides for wireless communication between wireless device and other wireless devices . The short range communication subsystem may be used to provide a preferred device mode between wireless device and another wireless device which may in at least some example embodiments be a wireless device which is the same or similar to wireless device discussed with reference to . In at least some example embodiments the short range communication subsystem is a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

Wireless device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data includes service data including information required by wireless device to establish and maintain communication with wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on wireless device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of wireless device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

Wireless device may in some example embodiments be a mobile communication device which may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of wireless device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over wireless network .

In the voice communication mode wireless device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on wireless device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications such as preferred device mode module . In the example embodiment of the preferred device mode module is implemented as a stand alone application . However in other example embodiments the preferred device mode module could be implemented as part of the operating system or another application .

The software applications on wireless device may also include a range of additional applications including for example a notepad application Internet browser application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface e.g. the display according to the application.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on wireless device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto wireless device through wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

Referring now to a front view of an example wireless device which is a smartphone is illustrated. The smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the smartphone may have the ability to execute third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

The smartphone may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The smartphone includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the example embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the smartphone so that it is viewable at a front side of the smartphone . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the smartphone. In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example smartphone also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the example illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at the front side of the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a speaker . In the example embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a single speaker which is disposed vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The speaker may be disposed on the front face of the smartphone .

While the example smartphone of includes a single speaker in other example embodiments the smartphone may include a greater number of speakers . For example in at least some example embodiments the smartphone may include a second speaker which is disposed vertically below the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width i.e. the orientation illustrated in .

The example smartphone also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the smartphone is held in the portrait orientation. The microphone and at least one speaker may be arranged so that the microphone is in close proximity to a user s mouth and the speaker is in close proximity to a user s ear when the user holds the phone to their face to converse on the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone .

The example smartphone also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the smartphone . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images obtained by the camera .

The wireless device may be a tablet computer tablet one of which is illustrated in . Tablet computer of may include many of the same features and components of the smartphone of . However tablet computer of is generally larger than the smartphone of . Tablet computer may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. Tablet computer includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

Tablet computer includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within tablet computer so that it is viewable at a front side of tablet computer . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of tablet computer . In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing with use of a frame which surrounds the display . The frame is portion of the housing which provides a border around the display . In at least some example embodiments the frame is an active frame . That is the frame has a touch sensitive overlay which allows wireless device to detect a touch applied to the frame thereby allowing the frame to act as an input interface of .

The example tablet computer includes a plurality of speakers . In the example embodiment illustrated the tablet includes two speakers . The two speakers are disposed on opposing sides of the display . More particularly when tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation such as the orientation illustrated in where its width is longer than its height one of the two speakers is disposed on a right side of the display and one of the speakers is disposed on the left side of the display . Both speakers are disposed on the front side of tablet computer .

The example tablet computer also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the tablet computer is held in the landscape orientation illustrated in . The microphone may be located in other locations in other example embodiments.

The example tablet computer also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation i.e. the orientation of . The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of tablet computer .

The example tablet computer also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of tablet computer . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of tablet computer . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images obtained by the camera .

Although a specific wireless device has just been described any suitable wireless communication device or terminal may be part of the methods and apparatus which will be described in fuller detail below. Also although the description of the architecture relates to a specific example for illustration where the wireless network or WLAN is an IEEE 802.11 based network different environments may be applicable as well. The wireless network may be a WiMAX based network i.e. IEEE 802.16 or an Ultra WideBand UWB based network i.e. IEEE 802.15 as a few examples.

Other wireless networking configurations include Wi Fi peer to peer P2P wireless networking configurations. For example in it is shown that wireless device may establish a Wi Fi P2P wireless connection with a display device or monitor which includes a wireless transceiver . Such Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be suitable for applications such as for example a streaming media application or a display or presentation application.

It is also shown that wireless device may establish a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection with a printer device which includes a wireless transceiver . Such Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be suitable for applications such as for example a print application or a facsimile application.

Even further it is shown that wireless device may establish a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection with a tablet which includes a wireless transceiver . An example tablet was previously shown and described in relation to . Such Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be suitable for an applications such as for example a bridge or bridging application where wireless device is further configured for cellular telecommunications e.g. equipped with a cellular transceiver but tablet is not. In such application tablet is able to achieve external network e.g. Internet connectivity being connected to wireless device for communications via the cellular telecommunication network.

It is further shown in that wireless device may establish a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection in an ad hoc wireless network which includes one or more other wireless devices and . Such Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be suitable for applications such as for example a file sharing application a conference meeting application a game or gaming application or a military application. In many instances such ad hoc wireless networks provide no external network connectivity.

When wireless device is connected as such using one or more Wi Fi P2P wireless network connections data may be communicated directly between wireless device and the other devices i.e. without the data traversing any fixed wireless network infrastructure .

As described earlier wireless device has different types of applications stored therein. These applications may include as examples a messaging application a voice telephony application a Web browsing application a streaming media application a file sharing application a game application a printer application a facsimile application a display or presentation application a military application as examples. Wireless device is optimized to establish the appropriate wireless networks based on which type of application is invoked.

Referring ahead to an illustrative representation of another portion of memory of wireless device is shown. Memory is shown to store a plurality of profiles for wireless networking. The profiles include one or more profiles associated with WLAN infrastructure networks and or one or more profiles associated with applications and or services which utilize Wi Fi P2P wireless network connections. In profiles are shown to include profiles and whereas profiles are shown to include profiles and . Profiles may be or be referred to as WLAN profiles whereas profiles may be or be referred to as Wi Fi P2P wireless networking profiles or Wi Fi Direct profiles.

Each one of profiles is associated with a particular WLAN infrastructure network and includes a plurality of parameters and or properties for accessing the particular WLAN. The WLAN information may include an identification which identifies the WLAN to access e.g. a SSID or ESSID . The WLAN information may also include authentication and or security information for obtaining access to the WLAN e.g. a network key passkey security key etc. . One of the WLANs appropriate WLAN from profiles will be selected for communication when available as prioritized in a prioritized list of the profiles . When not connected in a WLAN the wireless device normally operates to search for WLANs identified in its stored profiles . Conversely the wireless device normally refrains from searching for and communicating in WLANs other than those WLANs identified in stored profiles .

On the other hand each one of profiles is associated with one of the applications and or services which utilizes a particular type and or configuration of Wi Fi P2P wireless network or Wi Fi Direct network . Each one of profiles includes parameters and or properties associated with establishing the particular type and or configuration of Wi Fi P2P wireless network for the application and or service. Profiles may be created viewed updated enabled and disabled as described in the present disclosure see e.g. discussion in relation to .

Properties in profiles may include the following. Properties may include a device type property which indicates a device type of the device for the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection to be established. The device type may be the device type that is being searched for in the discovery. Note that there may be two device types specified in the profile a primary device type and a secondary device type. The device types may be or include the appropriate device types in the Wi Fi Direct Network as described in the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification e.g. in Annex B thereof . The device types may be or include the predefined values as set forth therein. The device type may be or include category identification ID and or subcategory identification ID . Examples of such types are as follows a computer an input device a printer a camera a display monitor a gaming device an audio device a multimedia device or a telephone device.

Properties may additionally or alternatively include an advertised device type property which indicates the device type of wireless device . The advertised device type may be the device type to be advertised by wireless device . Note that there may be two advertised device types specified in the profile a primary advertised device type and a secondary advertised device type. The advertised device types may be or include the appropriate device types in the Wi Fi Direct Network as described in the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification e.g. in Annex B thereof . The device types may be or include the predefined values as set forth therein. The advertised device type may be or include category identification ID and or subcategory identification ID . Examples of such types are as follows a computer an input device a printer a camera a display monitor a gaming device an audio device a multimedia device or a telephone device.

Properties in profiles may additionally or alternatively include a service type property which indicates a service type which identifies the service associated with the device. For example the service types may be or include the appropriate service types as described in the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification e.g. in Annex E thereof . Examples of such types are as follows a file sharing service or a printing service. Alternatively examples of such types are as follows Apple File Sharing AFP service or AFP over TCP service or IP Printing IPP Bonjour service.

Properties in profiles may additionally or alternatively include a discovery mode property which indicates a mode utilized for the discovery of devices for the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection. The discovery mode property may be set to one of the following a triggered mode of discovery or a periodic mode of discovery. Alternatively the discovery mode may be set to one of the following a triggered mode of discovery a periodic mode of discovery or a Group Owner GO mode of discovery.

Properties in profiles may additionally or alternatively include a persistent property or indication which indicates whether or not the Wi Fi P2P wireless network is persistent. If the network is persistent when an application is opened or activated the wireless device connects to a previously established Wi Fi P2P wireless network.

Properties in profiles may additionally or alternatively include a coexistence indication or property which indicates whether the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection associated with this profile may be maintained while the wireless device operates as a client in an infrastructure network. Properties may additionally or alternatively include another coexistence indication or property which indicates whether the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection associated with this profile may be maintained while maintaining another Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection.

Note that properties in profiles may omit a device identifier which identifies any particular device for connection and or may omit a wireless network identifier which identifies any particular wireless network for connection. Rather properties in at least some of profiles indicate connection with particular types of devices and or services and or indicate connection with particular types of networks as opposed to specifically identified devices or specifically identified networks.

It is noted that many peer to peer use cases for Wi Fi P2P wireless networking lend themselves to different modes of operation. For example if a wireless device supports a network gateway feature e.g. a mobile hotspot or MHO feature then the wireless device may be configured to establish a persistent Wi Fi P2P wireless network when the service is enabled. As another example the same wireless device may require a printer service to allow an application to print a document. In this case the Wi Fi P2P wireless network may be established on demand based on an application trigger. In another example a social networking application may periodically search for other communication devices running the same social networking application which may result in the wireless device operating in a periodic discovery mode for other devices which advertise the same service.

To accommodate for such various use cases profiles associated with the various application services utilizing Wi Fi P2P wireless networks are created and stored on the wireless device. These profiles are enabled when needed such as enabled in response to an activation of an application associated therewith. Further the profiles may be enabled concurrently.

In one embodiment the profiles may have data structures defined for compatibility with the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification. Each profile may include information specific to Wi Fi P2P wireless network operation including device discovery behavior service discovery options co existence with infrastructure connectivity as well as operational characteristics of the network e.g. whether it is persistent or triggered on application launch .

These profiles may be provisioned as defaults in the wireless device and or may be configured by applications when installed. Further the profiles may be configured via the user interface of the wireless device with use of a human machine interface HMI application that provides management of the profiles. This HMI application may be configured to provide the ability to search for and identify any Wi Fi P2P wireless networks.

The profiles are used to manage the behavior of the WLAN or Wi Fi driver of the wireless device to accommodate for the various application services. The driver may be configured to support each particular use case. More particularly the driver may use the profile information to manage peer to peer communications on the wireless device as well as to arbitrate between Wi Fi P2P wireless network and other modes of connectivity e.g. infrastructure STA mode . The driver may be further configured to support other application requirements such as sleep modes discovery modes and or co existence with an infrastructure network connection over WLAN etc. An example set of properties and or parameters relating to the behavioral characteristics were provided earlier above.

Note that in section 2.4.3 P2P Device addressing of the Wi Fi P2P Technical specification it is described that a P2P Device shall have a P2P Device Address conforming to the format as described in 7.1.3.3.1 of IEEE Std 802.11 2007 1 which is used to uniquely reference that P2P Device. The P2P Device Address of a P2P Device shall be its globally administered MAC address or its globally administered MAC address with the locally administered bit set. The P2P Device Address shall be used as the receiver address RA for all frames sent to a P2P Device during P2P Discovery with the sole exception of using a broadcast receiver address in a Probe Request. The P2P Device Address shall be used as the transmitter address TA for all frames sent by a P2P Device during P2P Discovery. 

The original IEEE 802 MAC address utilizes MAC 48. With MAC 48 there are 2 i.e. 281 474 976 710 656 possible MAC addresses. In its most common format the 48 bit code of the MAC address is divided into 12 hex digits. The hexadecimal notation is used at least to differentiate it from IP addresses that use decimal notation. The first 6 hex digits identify the manufacturer of the device while the later 6 hex digits are the serial number of the device. The MAC address is usually written in 6 octets separated by a hyphen e.g. 00 50 FC B0 67 2C where the first 3 octets are referred to as the Organizationally Unique Identifier OUI .

An address may either be a universally administered address or a locally administered address . A universally or globally administered address is assigned to the device by its manufacturer and may also be referred to as a burned in address. The first three octets in transmission order identify the organization or producer that issued the identifier and represent the OUI. The next three octets MAC 48 and EUI 48 or five octets EUI 64 are assigned by the producer only has to respect the constraint of uniqueness. On the other hand a locally administered address is assigned to a component by a network administrator overriding the burned in address. Locally administered addresses do not contain OUIs. Universally administered and locally administered addresses are distinguished by setting the second least significant bit of the most significant byte of the address. This bit is also referred to as a Universal Local U L bit which identifies how the address is administered. If the bit is 0 the address is universally administered. If the bit is 1 the address is locally administered.

First wireless transceiver may be operative in accordance with an IEEE 802.11 communication standard. First wireless transceiver may further be operative in accordance with the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification such that wireless device is configured to operate as a P2P concurrent device as described earlier above e.g. in relation to . On the other hand second wireless transceiver may be operative in accordance with a BLUETOOTH communication standard.

As illustrated wireless device is configured for communicating via first wireless transceiver over a first wireless connection with a first device e.g. a wireless AP of a WLAN . Here communications to and or from wireless device are addressed with a first hardware address assigned to first wireless transceiver . The first hardware address may be the universally administered hardware address or MAC address assigned to first wireless transceiver . Wireless device is further configured for communicating via first wireless transceiver over a second wireless connection with a second device e.g. a Wi Fi P2P device . Here communications to and or from wireless device are addressed with a second hardware address assigned to second wireless transceiver . The second hardware address may be the universally administered hardware address or MAC address assigned to second wireless transceiver .

The first wireless connection may be a wireless local area network WLAN infrastructure connection where wireless device operates as a WLAN STA and the second wireless connection may be a WiFi Peer to Peer P2P connection. The first and second wireless connections may be concurrent wireless connections.

Note further that wireless device may be additionally configured for communicating via second wireless transceiver over a third wireless connection with second device or a third device e.g. a BLUETOOTH device . In this case communications to and or from wireless device are addressed with the second hardware address assigned to second wireless transceiver . The third wireless connection may be a BLUETOOTH connection. Note that the first and the third wireless connections and are point to point connections.

The techniques described in relation to the flowchart of may be performed by one or more controllers or processors of the wireless device along with its wireless or RF transceiver s . A computer program product which may embody the technique may include a computer readable medium e.g. memory of the communication device computer disk CD ROM etc. having computer instructions stored therein which are executable by the one or more processors of the wireless device for performing the technique.

In the technique of the wireless device performs an initialization procedure for initialization step of . This initialization procedure may be performed in response to the wireless device being powered on or reset for example or from other suitable event or condition. Amongst other initialization tasks the wireless device reads from memory of the first wireless transceiver a first hardware address assigned to the first wireless transceiver step of . The wireless device stores this first hardware address in its device memory e.g. flash memory of for subsequent use in identifying communications to and or from the device via the first wireless transceiver for a first type of wireless connection step of .

In addition the wireless device reads from memory of the second wireless transceiver a second hardware address assigned to the second wireless transceiver step of . The wireless device stores this second hardware address in its device memory e.g. flash memory of for subsequent use in identifying communications to and or from the device via the first wireless transceiver for a second type of wireless connection step of . Note further that the wireless device may also store this second hardware address in its device memory e.g. flash memory of for subsequent use in identifying communications to and or from the device via the second wireless transceiver for a third type of wireless connection. The flowchart ends at an end block .

In some embodiments the first and second hardware addresses are universally administered hardware addresses that are assigned to the first and the second wireless transceivers respectively. These universally administered hardware addresses may be the MAC addresses assigned to the wireless transceivers during manufacture.

Also the first wireless transceiver may be configured to communicate in accordance with an IEEE 802.11 communications standard and the second wireless transceiver may be configured to communicate in accordance with a BLUETOOTH communications standard. Thus in some embodiments the wireless device may utilize the MAC address of the IEEE 802.11 transceiver for identifying communications to and or from via the IEEE 802.11 transceiver for WLAN STA connections and utilize the MAC address of the BLUETOOTH transceiver for identifying communications to and or from via the IEEE 802.11 transceiver for Wi Fi P2P connections. The wireless device may also utilize the MAC address of the BLUETOOTH transceiver for identifying communications to and or from the device via the BLUETOOTH transceiver for BLUETOOTH connections. The first and second wireless connections may be concurrent wireless connections.

The techniques described in relation to the flowchart of may be performed by one or more controllers or processors of the wireless device along with its wireless or RF transceiver s . A computer program product which may embody the technique may include a computer readable medium e.g. memory of the communication device computer disk CD ROM etc. having computer instructions stored therein which are executable by the one or more processors of the wireless device for performing the technique.

Beginning at a start block of the wireless device operates to communicate via the first wireless transceiver over a first wireless connection with a first device step of . The communications to and from the wireless device over the first wireless connection of the first wireless transceiver are addressed with a first hardware address that is assigned to the first wireless transceiver. This first hardware address may be the address that was read from memory of the first wireless transceiver and stored in device memory as described in relation to steps and of .

During communications in relation to step the wireless device may receive via the first wireless transceiver over the first wireless connection data in one or more data frames having a destination address which is the first hardware address. Additionally or alternatively the wireless device may send via the first wireless transceiver over the first wireless connection data in one or more data frames having a source address which is the first hardware address. See e.g. the discussion in relation to . Also additionally or alternatively the wireless device may operate to advertise its presence and or availability to surrounding devices e.g. in a discovery procedure via the first wireless transceiver using the first hardware address to identify itself.

In addition the wireless device operates to communicate via the first wireless transceiver over a second wireless connection with a second device step of . The communications to and from the wireless device over the second wireless connection of the first wireless transceiver are addressed with a second hardware address that is assigned to the second wireless transceiver. This second hardware address may be the address that was read from memory of the second wireless transceiver and stored in device memory as described in relation to steps and of .

During communications in relation to step the wireless device may receive via the first wireless transceiver over the second wireless connection data in one or more data frames having a destination address which is the second hardware address. Additionally or alternatively the wireless device may send via the first wireless transceiver over the second wireless connection data in one or more data frames having a source address which is the second hardware address. See again e.g. the discussion in relation to . Also for example the wireless device may operate to advertise its presence and or availability to surrounding devices e.g. in a discovery procedure via the first transceiver using the second hardware address to identify itself.

The first and second hardware addresses may be the universally administered hardware addresses that are assigned to the first and the second wireless transceivers respectively. These universally administered hardware addresses may be the MAC addresses assigned to the wireless transceivers during manufacture. The first wireless transceiver may be configured to communicate in accordance with an IEEE 802.11 communications standard and the second wireless transceiver may be configured to communicate in accordance with a BLUETOOTH communications standard. Thus in some embodiments the wireless device may utilize the MAC address of the IEEE 802.11 transceiver for identifying the device for communications via the IEEE 802.11 transceiver for WLAN STA connections and utilize the MAC address of the BLUETOOTH transceiver for communications via the IEEE 802.11 transceiver for Wi Fi P2P connections. The wireless device may also utilize the MAC address of the BLUETOOTH transceiver for identifying the device in association with BLUETOOTH connections via the BLUETOOTH transceiver.

The first and the second wireless connections in steps and may be concurrently maintained by the wireless device. For example the wireless device may operate as a concurrent device in accordance with or be compatible with the Wi Fi P2P wireless network protocols in the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification.

In some embodiments one or more additional steps may be included in the method of . In one embodiment wireless device operates to communicate via the second wireless transceiver over a third wireless connection with a third device. The communications to and from the wireless device over the third wireless connection of the second wireless transceiver are addressed with the second hardware address that is assigned to the second wireless transceiver. During these communications the wireless device may receive via the second wireless transceiver over the second wireless connection data in one or more data frames having a destination address which is the second hardware address. Additionally or alternatively the wireless device may send via the second wireless transceiver over the second wireless connection data in one or more data frames having a source address which is the second hardware address. Also alternatively for example the wireless device may operate to advertise its presence and or availability to surrounding devices e.g. in a discovery procedure via the second transceiver using the second hardware address to identify itself.

In such embodiments the wireless device may further operate to concurrently maintain the first the second and the third wireless connections via the first and the second wireless transceivers. Here the same second hardware address is utilized for identifying the communications to and or from the wireless device over the second and the third wireless connections. In this case the device operates to mark the communications for one of the wireless connections for distinguishing therebetween. For example the device may mark the locally administered bit for the MAC address for use of the third wireless connection.

In further embodiment the wireless device may operate to switch from communicating via the first wireless transceiver over the second wireless connection with the second device to communicating via the second wireless transceiver over the third wireless connection with the second device. This switching may be performed for example in order to reduce power consumption of the wireless device while maintaining communications with the second device. Accordingly the wireless device may subsequently operate to switch back from communicating via the second wireless transceiver over the third wireless connection to the first wireless transceiver over the second wireless connection. This switching back may be performed for example in order to increase data throughput of the wireless device.

Thus as described herein a wireless communication device of the present disclosure includes a first wireless transceiver and a second wireless transceiver. The wireless device is configured for communicating via the first wireless transceiver over a first wireless connection with a first device where communications to and from the wireless device are identified using a first universally administered hardware address assigned to the first wireless transceiver. The wireless device is further configured for communicating via the first wireless transceiver over a second wireless connection with a second device where communications to and from the wireless device are identified with a second universally administered hardware address assigned to the second wireless transceiver. The first and second hardware addresses may be Media Access Control MAC addresses of the first and the second wireless transceivers. The first and the second wireless connections may be concurrent wireless connections. In some embodiments the first wireless transceiver may be configured for communications in accordance with an IEEE 802.11 standard and the second wireless transceiver may be configured for communications in accordance with a BLUETOOTH standard. The first wireless connection may be a wireless local area network WLAN infrastructure connection and the second wireless connection may be a WiFi Peer to Peer P2P connection. Thus in some embodiments the wireless device may utilize the MAC address of the IEEE 802.11 transceiver for identifying communications to and or from the device via the IEEE 802.11 transceiver for WLAN STA connections and utilize the MAC address of the BLUETOOTH transceiver for identifying communications to and or from the device via the IEEE 802.11 transceiver for Wi Fi P2P connections.

In other embodiments a wireless device of the present disclosure is configured for reading from memory of the first wireless transceiver a first hardware address that is assigned to the first wireless transceiver and storing in device memory the first hardware address for subsequent use in identifying communications to and or from the wireless device via the first wireless transceiver for a first type of wireless connection. The wireless device is further configured for reading from memory of the second wireless transceiver a second hardware address that is assigned to the second wireless transceiver and storing in the device memory the second hardware address for subsequent use in identifying communications to and or from the wireless device via the first wireless transceiver for a second type of wireless connection. The first and second hardware addresses may be Media Access Control MAC addresses of the first and the second wireless transceivers. The first and the second types of wireless connections may be types of concurrent wireless connections. In some embodiments the first wireless transceiver may be configured for communications in accordance with an IEEE 802.11 standard and the second wireless transceiver may be configured for communications in accordance with a BLUETOOTH standard. The first type of wireless connection may be a wireless local area network WLAN infrastructure type of connection and the second wireless connection may be a WiFi Peer to Peer P2P type of connection. Thus in some embodiments the wireless device may utilize the MAC address of the IEEE 802.11 transceiver for identifying communications to and or from the device via the IEEE 802.11 transceiver for WLAN STA type of connections and utilize the MAC address of the BLUETOOTH transceiver for identifying communications to and or from the device via the IEEE 802.11 transceiver for Wi Fi P2P type of connections.

The above described embodiments of the present disclosure are intended to be examples only. Those of skill in the art may affect alterations modifications and variations to the particular embodiments without departing from the scope of the application. Although the description relates to specific examples for illustration where the WLAN is an IEEE 802.11 based network for example different environments may be applicable as well. As a few other examples the wireless networking may be based on a WiMAX network i.e. IEEE 802.16 or an Ultra WideBand UWB network i.e. IEEE 802.15 . The invention described herein in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

