---

title: Apparatus for restricting moisture ingress
abstract: Apparatus and methods to protect circuitry from moisture ingress, e.g., using a metallic structure as part of a moisture ingress barrier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08389331&OS=08389331&RS=08389331
owner: Medtronic, Inc.
number: 08389331
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120824
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 302 725 filed on Nov. 22 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 263 436 which is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 569 504 filed on Sep. 29 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 072 056 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 185 881 filed 10 Jun. 2009 entitled FARADAY CAGE FOR CIRCUITRY USING SUBSTRATES U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 229 867 filed 30 Jul. 2009 entitled APPARATUS FOR RESTRICTING MOISTURE INGRESS U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 229 869 filed 30 Jul. 2009 entitled HERMETICITY TESTING and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 235 745 filed 21 Aug. 2009 entitled HERMETICALLY SEALED ELECTRICAL CIRCUIT APPARATUS all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their respective entireties.

The disclosure herein relates generally to apparatus for protecting circuitry from moisture ingress and further to fabrication methods for constructing such apparatus.

Electrical circuits e.g. integrated circuits include many types of active and passive devices e.g. transistors capacitors resistors etc. that may be subject to damage from moisture e.g. corrosion and functional changes to the system . For example moisture may affect the operation and performance of circuitry such as sensitive circuits used in implantable medical devices e.g. sensor circuitry pacing circuitry timing circuitry etc. . One way to mitigate such moisture issues is to protect such circuits using a moisture barrier.

Various attempts have previously been made to seal the interior of semiconductor device dies from moisture ingress. The bottom substrate in many semiconductor devices e.g. silicon effectively blocks moisture from entering the interior of the die from the bottom but materials commonly employed in fabricating further layers above the substrate may provide a path for moisture to enter from the top and or sides of the die after separation. For example certain commonly employed insulator materials such as silicon oxide SiO may be penetrated by moisture. Accordingly lateral or side seal structures have been provided between the die edges and the active region. Such side seal structures e.g. may be formed in one or more layers in the processed semiconductor device using vertically oriented contacts e.g. such as tungsten and metal die seal structures.

For example an upper seal layer is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 566 736 entitled DIE SEAL FOR SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE MOISTURE PROTECTION issued on May 20 2003 which allegedly provides a vertical moisture seal.

The disclosure herein relates generally to apparatus for protecting circuitry from moisture ingress and methods for providing such apparatus. For example as described in one or more embodiments herein semiconductor substrates and semiconductor fabrication techniques may be used to provide a moisture ingress barrier and a hermetic interface to protect circuit devices e.g. a die that includes circuitry .

One exemplary apparatus disclosed herein includes an electrical circuit apparatus including a moisture ingress barrier. The apparatus includes a first portion and a second portion. The first portion includes at least one side surface a substantially planar connection surface a substrate e.g. a semiconductor substrate provided from a wafer and one or more layers formed on the substrate terminating at the connection surface. At least a portion of the at least one side surface is defined by the one or more layers. Further the one or more layers include at least one circuit device e.g. including electrical circuitry forming a part of an implantable medical device etc. and a metallic structure laterally surrounding the at least one circuit device and forming at least part of the moisture ingress barrier. A perimeter region is defined between the at least one circuit device and the at least one side surface and the metallic structure extends from the substrate to the connection surface and is located within the perimeter region. The second portion includes at least one side surface a substantially planar connection surface and a substrate e.g. a semiconductor substrate provided from a wafer. At least a portion of the at least one surface is defined by the substrate. The connection surface of the first portion is bonded to the connection surface of the second portion to form a hermetic interface proximate the metallic structure of the first portion and the hermetic interface forms at least a part of the moisture ingress barrier e.g. the metallic structure of the first portion may be metallically bonded to a metallic region of the second portion to form at least part of the hermetic interface a region of the first portion adjacent the metallic structure may be covalently bonded to a region of the second portion to form at least part of the hermetic interface etc. .

Another exemplary apparatus disclosed herein includes an electrical circuit apparatus including a moisture ingress barrier. The apparatus includes a first portion and a second portion. The first portion includes at least one side surface a substantially planar connection surface a substrate e.g. a semiconductor substrate provided from a wafer and one or more layers formed on the substrate terminating at the connection surface. At least a portion of the at least one side surface is formed by the one or more layers. Further the one or more layers include at least one circuit device e.g. including electrical circuitry forming a part of an implantable medical device etc. and a metallic structure laterally surrounding the at least one circuit device and forming at least part of the moisture ingress barrier. A perimeter region is defined between the at least one circuit device and the at least one side surface and the metallic structure extends from the substrate to the connection surface and is located within the perimeter region. The second portion includes at least one side surface a substantially planar connection surface a substrate e.g. a semiconductor substrate provided from a wafer and one or more layers formed on the substrate terminating at the connection surface. At least a portion of the at least one side surface is defined by the one or more layers. Further the one or more layers include at least one circuit device e.g. including electrical circuitry forming a part of an implantable medical device etc. and a metallic structure laterally surrounding the at least one circuit device and forming at least part of the moisture ingress barrier. A perimeter region is defined between the at least one circuit device and the at least one side surface and the metallic structure extends from the substrate to the connection surface and is located within the perimeter region. The connection surface of the first portion is bonded to the connection surface of the second portion to form a hermetic interface proximate the metallic structures of the first and the second portions and the hermetic interface forms at least part of the moisture ingress barrier e.g. the metallic structure of the first portion may be metallically bonded to a metallic region of the second portion to form at least part of the hermetic interface a region of the first portion adjacent the metallic structure may be covalently bonded to a region of the second portion to form at least part of the hermetic interface etc. .

One exemplary method disclosed herein includes providing at least one electrical circuit apparatus including a moisture ingress barrier. The method includes providing a first portion and providing a second portion. The first portion and the second portion each include a substantially planar connection surface. Providing the first portion includes providing a wafer substrate e.g. a semiconductor substrate and providing one or more layers formed on the substrate terminating at the connection surface. The one or more layers include at least one circuit device e.g. including electrical circuitry forming a part of an implantable medical device etc. and at least one metallic structure laterally surrounding the at least one circuit device and forming at least part of the moisture ingress barrier of the at least one electrical circuit apparatus. A perimeter region is defined laterally surrounding the at least one circuit device and the at least one metallic structure extends from the substrate to the connection surface and is located within the perimeter region. Providing the second portion includes providing a wafer substrate. The method further includes coupling the connection surface of the first portion to the connection surface of the second portion to form at least one hermetic interface proximate the at least one metallic structure of the first portion e.g. covalently bonding at least one region of the first portion adjacent the at least one metallic structure to at least one region of the second portion to form the at least a part of the at least one hermetic interface metallically bonding the at least one metallic structure of the first portion to at least one metallic region of the second portion to form at least a part of the at least one hermetic interface etc. . The at least one hermetic interface forms at least part of the moisture ingress barrier of the at least one electrical circuit apparatus.

The above summary is not intended to describe each embodiment or every implementation of the present disclosure. A more complete understanding will become apparent and appreciated by referring to the following detailed description and claims taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

In the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments reference is made to the accompanying figures of the drawing which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments which may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from e.g. still falling within the scope of the disclosure presented hereby.

Exemplary apparatus and methods of constructing such apparatus shall be described with reference to . It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that elements from one embodiment may be used in combination with elements of the other embodiments and that the possible embodiments of such apparatus using combinations of features set forth herein is not limited to the specific embodiments shown in the Figures and or described herein. Further it will be recognized that the embodiments described herein may include many elements that are not necessarily shown to scale. Further it will be recognized that the size and shape of various elements herein may be modified but still fall within the scope of the present disclosure although one or more shapes and or sizes or types of elements may be advantageous over others.

The circuit device may be any device that includes electrical circuitry that performs one or more functions e.g. sensing detecting processing etc. . The moisture ingress barrier restricts moisture ingress e.g. movement of moisture e.g. to protect the circuit device from moisture. As used herein moisture may be defined as any material capable of ingressing into semiconductor devices. For example moisture may include water biological liquids vapors gases etc. Further the moisture ingress barrier may take any shape or size suitable for its intended purpose. For example the barrier may be rectangular in shape e.g. with four side walls cylindrical in shape e.g. a circular side wall etc. Further for example the shape of the barrier may not be describable by a particular shape e.g. in the case where for example the barrier is shaped to conform to a device that it is protecting and may be formed using stepped vias .

Although not limited thereto in one or more embodiments the apparatus is beneficial for restricting moisture ingress into the circuitry of a package used in implantable medical devices. For example the apparatus including the circuit device and the moisture barrier may be a part of an implantable medical device. For example the implantable medical device may be a device implantable in a body near a human heart. For example the implanted medical device may be any implantable cardiac pacemaker defibrillator cardioverter defibrillator or pacemaker cardioverter defibrillator PCD . Further for example the implantable medical device may be an implantable nerve stimulator or muscle stimulator an implantable monitoring device e.g. a hemodynamic monitoring device a brain stimulator a gastric stimulator a drug pump or any other implantable device that would benefit from moisture protection. Therefore the apparatus may find wide application in any form of implantable medical device. As such any description herein making reference to any particular medical device is not to be taken as a limitation of the type of medical device which can benefit from and which can employ the moisture ingress protection as described herein.

Further although moisture ingress protection may be beneficial for implantable medical devices such protection is not limited to such applications. For example such protection may be beneficial for many different types of circuitry e.g. whether for medical use or not whether for an implantable medical device or not . For example one or more types of circuits that may benefit from such moisture ingress protection may include circuits such as sensor circuits pacing circuits timing circuits telemetry circuits etc.

The apparatus as shown generally in the exploded views of includes a first portion and a second portion . The first portion includes at least one side surface e.g. one side surface four side surfaces etc. and at least a substantially planar connection surface . Further a perimeter region may be defined between the circuit device and the at least one side surface . The second portion also includes at least one side surface e.g. one side surface four side surfaces etc. and at least a substantially planar connection surface .

In one or more embodiments the first portion may include one or more layers formed over the substrate e.g. directly on a semiconductor substrate terminating at connection surface . The one or more layers may provide at least one circuit device e.g. circuit device and the metallic structure which forms at least part of the moisture ingress barrier . In one or more embodiments the metallic structure e.g. stacked vias metal vias stacked on metal non metal vias stacked on metal etc. extends from the substrate to the connection surface and is located within the perimeter region . Further the one or more layers may include metal portions used for connection between various via layers to from at least a portion of the metallic structure . Still further the metallic structure may laterally surround the circuit device . In other words the circuit device may be arranged along an axis orthogonal to the connection surface and the metallic structure may be located a distance away from the axis that is less than the distance from the axis to the at least one side wall . Further the metallic structure may be continuous discontinuous and or patterned. Although not depicted in the figures in at least one embodiment the metallic structure may be electrically biased to e.g. curtail or prevent corrosion. Further also although not depicted in at least one embodiment the metallic structure may be grounded.

Further in one or more embodiments the one or more layers provide at least one electrical interconnect extending from the circuit device or other circuit devices located therein to a location outside of the metallic structure e.g. a location between the metallic structure and the at last one side wall a location within the perimeter region or a location outside of the apparatus .

At least in one embodiment connection surface may be defined at least partially by the one or more layers and may include oxide material e.g. in surface regions apart from one or more conductive portions of the connection surface such as interconnect conductive pads etc. . For example such oxide material may be oxide material formed deposited or grown as part of one or more processing steps e.g. oxides such as BPSG silicon oxide native oxide etc. .

In one or more embodiments metallic structure is formed in the one or more layers to provide at least a portion of the moisture ingress barrier e.g. to provide at least portions of one or more side walls of the moisture ingress barrier . The metallic structure may extend from the substrate to the connection surface terminating in a contact . Further in one or more embodiments the metallic structure may be a plurality of conductive vias.

When assembled and or coupled together e.g. the connection surface of the first portion coupled to the connection surface of the second portion or in other words to e.g. form a face to face bonded die the first and second portions form a hermetic interface e.g. at adjacent and or near the interface between the metallic structure at the surface of the first portion and the surface of the second portion etc. . The hermetic interface forms at least a part of the moisture ingress barrier . For example such interfaces are also shown by interface in interface in and interface in . Further the moisture ingress barrier e.g. including at least the hermetic interface and the metallic structure may operate as a boundary that restricts e.g. prevents the ingress of moisture e.g. towards the circuit device . As used herein a hermetic interface is defined as an interface that restricts e.g. prevents moisture from passing diffusing pervading infiltrating ingressing and or leaking through itself In one or more embodiments the moisture ingress barrier may only occupy a portion of the apparatus to restrict e.g. prevent moisture ingress from e.g. a specific direction or may only laterally surround the area of the apparatus containing moisture sensitive circuitry.

Wafer scale fabrication techniques may be used to form each of the first and second portions . Generally in one or more embodiments each of the first portion and the second portion includes a substrate provided from or as a part of a wafer e.g. a portion of any size and shape of substrate usable in wafer scale fabrication processes such as a circular silicon wafer a glass substrate etc. . In other words multiple portions may be fabricated on a wafer e.g. the first portions on a first wafer and the second portions on a second wafer . As such the fabrication of each of the portions may be initiated with use of a wafer substrate e.g. a semiconductor conductor or insulator substrate wafer . In one or more embodiments the wafer substrate is a doped semiconductor wafer substrate e.g. doped to either a bulk n type or p type wafer such as those used as the base substrate for microelectronic devices e.g. substrates built in and over using one or more microfabrication process steps such as doping ion implantation etching deposition of various materials and photolithographic patterning processes . In one or more embodiments the semiconductor wafer is a silicon wafer. However other available types of semiconductor wafers may be used such as for example a gallium arsenide wafer a germanium wafer a silicon on insulator SOI wafer etc. Further for example in one or more embodiments the substrate may be formed of one or more materials other than semiconductor material such as a glass substrate wherein the substrate includes a metal film. In other words for example the first portion may include a substrate provided from or as a part of a wafer and the second portion may include a substrate provided from or as a part of a wafer.

Further in one or more embodiments the first portion includes one or more interconnect vias outside of the moisture ingress barrier e.g. between the metallic structure and the at least one side wall . The one or more interconnect vias for example terminate with one or more conductive pads at the connection surface e.g. for use in providing accessible surface contacts such as surface contacts at a surface of at least one of the first and second portions . The at least one electrical interconnect extending from circuit device to a location outside of the moisture ingress barrier e.g. the metallic structure passes through one or more insulated locations of the moisture ingress barrier e.g. the metallic structure to connect to the one or more interconnect vias .

Still further in one or more embodiments the first and second portions may not include interconnects or vias connecting the circuit devices to contact pads on the outside of the apparatus . For example in at least one embodiment the apparatus may include various apparatus and or structures to wirelessly communicate to other devices apparatus outside of apparatus .

The formation of the at least one interconnect the metallic structure of the moisture ingress barrier the one or more interconnect vias and one or more of the various conductive pads or contacts of the first portion as well as those of the second portion may be formed using standard microelectronic fabrication processing techniques e.g. such as etching of materials deposition of materials and photolithographic patterning process steps etc. . Various portions of first and second portions may be formed during the same or different processing steps. For example a portion of a stacked via that may be used to provide a portion of an interconnect via may be formed with an interconnect layer used to provide a portion of the interconnect . Still further for example process steps to form the vias may be completely separate therefrom such as in the formation of a through silicon via after other layer processing is completed. The present disclosure is not limited to any particular processing or timing or order of such process steps. However some types of processing and order thereof may be beneficial over other types.

The one or more vias described herein may be constructed in one or more suitable forms for providing the functionality thereof in accordance to the disclosure provided herein. For example the interconnect vias of the first portion may be formed as stacked interconnect vias formed as the one or more layers are constructed. Further for example other vias described herein may be formed as through silicon vias. For example as described further herein in one or more embodiments the interconnect vias of the second portion may be formed using through silicon vias. Further other types of vias such as trench vias or the like may be used.

As described herein the metallic structure of the moisture ingress barrier may be formed of a plurality of vias e.g. stacked vias . The plurality of vias may be provided in one or more configurations suitable for restricting e.g. preventing moisture ingress. For example any configuration suitable for restricting e.g. preventing moisture ingress to the interior of the moisture ingress barrier may be used e.g. the vias of the metallic structure of the moisture ingress barrier are thick enough to restrict moisture ingress and any holes or gaps in the barrier are small enough to restrict moisture ingress therethrough . One or more different via configurations are shown and described with reference to . However the present disclosure is not limited thereto as various configurations of vias may be used to provide the moisture ingress functionality.

In one or more embodiments the materials used to form the moisture ingress barrier may be any suitable material effective for use in restricting e.g. preventing the ingress of moisture therethrough. For example in one or more embodiments conductive materials such as one or more metals e.g. aluminum copper tungsten etc. may be used for forming the moisture ingress barrier . Further for example in one or more embodiments the conductive vias may be lined and or filled with conductive materials including for example one or more metals e.g. tungsten titanium copper etc. . Further in one or more embodiments the materials used to form the moisture ingress barrier may be polysilicon and or any other semiconductor material.

In one or more embodiments the second portion includes the one or more interconnect vias extending therein from connection surface and terminating at one or more surface contacts at surface of the second portion . Such interconnect vias may correspond to and be alignable with the interconnect vias so as to provide electrical connection from the circuit device to the surface contacts at an outer portion of the apparatus . Surface contacts may be located at any outer surface of the apparatus with appropriate connection routing. However some locations may be more beneficial than others. The surface contacts are configured for connection to one or more other conductive components such as without limitation pads on a target board lead conductors etc.

In one or more embodiments where vias are formed in the substrate such vias may be formed as through vias e.g. such as through silicon vias formed in a silicon substrate extending through the substrate and even one or more layers formed thereon . For example the interconnect vias may be constructed using through via techniques e.g. through silicon via techniques . For example in one or more embodiments without limitation the vias may be formed by defining a hole e.g. using a dry or wet etch through a silicon substrate e.g. may be etched through overlying layers of metal and dielectric formed thereon or therein using deep reactive ion etching process . Further such holes may be formed by laser drilling or sand blasting. The hole may be lined with a dielectric e.g. native oxide formation the growing of oxide material e.g. silicon oxide or deposition of a dielectric material and thereafter filled or lined with one or more conductive materials.

To form the apparatus the first portion and the second portion are coupled together. For example in one or more embodiments the connection surfaces of first portion and the second portion may be coupled e.g. bonded together to assemble the apparatus . In such a manner in one or more embodiments the connection surface of the first portion is bonded e.g. using wafer die bonding techniques to the connection surface of the second portion to form a hermetic interface proximate the moisture ingress barrier of the first portion . For example a region of the first portion adjacent the moisture ingress barrier may be covalently bonded to a region of the second portion see e.g. to form a hermetic interface e.g. forming at least part of the moisture ingress barrier or the metallic structure of the moisture ingress barrier may be metallically bonded to a metallic region or plurality of metallic regions located at the connection surface of the second portion see e.g. to form a hermetic interface e.g. forming at least part of the moisture ingress barrier . Further for example in such a manner in one or more embodiments the plurality of interconnect vias of the first portion and the plurality of interconnect vias of the second portion are electrically connected when the connection surface of the first portion is bonded to the connection surface of the second portion thus for example forming a connection of the circuit device to the surface contacts .

In one or more embodiments bonding the first and second portions together to assemble the apparatus may be implemented using any wafer or die bonding process e.g. bonding a wafer including the first portions with a wafer including the second portions which also refers to the bonding of an individual die to a full wafer and the bonding of an individual die to another individual die such as chemical bonding processes e.g. those using adhesion promoters etc. high temperature bonding processes e.g. thermal fusion bonding etc. hydrogen bonding processes anodic bonding processes and oxide bonding processes e.g. plasma enhanced bonding etc. . For example use of oxide bonding permits oxide surfaces e.g. portions of the connection surfaces of the first and second portions including an oxide material such as silicon oxide to be bonded together. Further for example in one or more embodiments the connection surfaces may be chemical mechanically polished or planarized to expose any conductive portions thereof e.g. the via contacts at connection surface or conductive pads at connection surface to be exposed. For example when the oxide portions and the conductive portions at the connection surface e.g. a planar surface are aligned with the oxide portions and the conductive portions of the connection surface e.g. a planar surface oxide bonding may be performed. For example oxide bonding processes may form a bond between oxide portions of the connection surfaces of the first and second portions without the need for adhesives or other intermediate layers may be used.

The first portion includes at least one side surface and a substantially planar connection surface . The first portion further includes one or more layers formed on the substrate terminating at a connection surface . A metallic structure forming at least part of a moisture ingress barrier and at least one circuit device e.g. one or more circuits that include electrical circuitry may be formed within the one or more layers . The metallic structure may be located between the at least one circuit device and the at least one side surface . In other words a perimeter region may be defined laterally surround the circuit device and extending from the circuit device to the least one side surface and the metallic structure may be located within the perimeter regions .

Further the one or more layers may include any number of layers desired for providing one or more electrical interconnects schematically shown by dashed lines extending from the circuit device to a location outside of the moisture ingress barrier e.g. between the moisture ingress barrier and the at least one side surface of the first portion . For example at least in one embodiment the one or more electrical interconnects are multilayer interconnects for providing interconnection of circuit device outside of the moisture ingress barrier . Further in at least one embodiment the one or more electrical interconnects extend from the circuit device to a location outside of the moisture ingress barrier by passing through one or more insulated locations of the metallic structure e.g. locations small enough to still prevent moisture ingress . Still further the one or more electrical interconnects can be terminated at a surface of the apparatus e.g. by surface contacts as described with reference to in any number of manners e.g. using one or more vias or additional interconnect structure .

At least a part of the moisture ingress barrier may be formed from the metallic structure e.g. a plurality of conductive vias located between at least one side surface and the circuit device e.g. the perimeter region . Further the metallic structure may extend from the substrate to the connection surface e.g. terminating at the connection surface in a contact .

The second portion includes at least one side surface and a substantially planar connection surface . The interface between the connection surfaces of the first and second portions may include bonded oxide portions in locations other than where conductive elements are located e.g. such as metallic structure of the moisture ingress barrier . For example such bonded oxide portions may be formed if an oxide bonding process is used to couple the first and second portions .

Further the bonding e.g. oxide bonding between the connection surface of the first portion and the connection surface of the second portion may form a hermetic interface proximate the metallic structure of the first portion to form at least a part of the moisture ingress barrier . An enlarged expanded partial cross sectional view of the dashed circle portion of showing the hermetic interface is depicted in . As shown one or more regions of the first portion adjacent the metallic structure is covalently bonded to one or more regions of the second portion to form the hermetic interface to restrict e.g. prevent moisture from ingressing through interface . For example at least in one embodiment the covalent bond at the hermetic interface may be formed by driving off any existing water present between the connection surfaces and forming silicon oxygen bonds throughout the structure such that a covalent bond is formed.

Further due to conventional fabrication techniques e.g. semiconductor contact layer formation etc. the interface between the substrate and the moisture ingress barrier is also hermetic. As a result the interface interface the metallic structure and the hermetic interface may form at least part of the moisture ingress barrier and may restrict e.g. prevent moisture ingress therethrough to e.g. protect the circuit device .

As shown in the first portion is coupled to a second portion to form electrical circuit apparatus . The second portion includes a substrate at least one side surface and a substantially planar connection surface . In this embodiment the second portion further includes a metallic region e.g. a contact located at the connection surface as shown more clearly in .

The coupling e.g. oxide bonding between the connection surface of the first portion and the connection surface of the second portion may form a hermetic interface proximate the metallic structure of the first portion to form at least part of the moisture ingress barrier . An enlarged expanded partial cross sectional view of the dashed circle portion of showing the hermetic interface is depicted in . As shown the metallic structure more specifically e.g. the contact forming at least part of the moisture ingress barrier is metallically bonded to the metallic region e.g. more specifically the contact of the second portion to form the hermetic interface to restrict e.g. prevent moisture from ingressing through the interface . Together the hermetic interface the metallic structure and the metallic region may form a part of or all of the moisture ingress barrier . For example at least in one embodiment the metallic bond of the hermetic interface is formed by gold or gold tin bonding. Further as described herein with reference to one or more regions of the first portion adjacent the moisture ingress barrier may also be bonded e.g. covalently bonded to one or more regions of the second portion to further form the hermetic interface e.g. using plasma enhanced wafer bonding etc. .

As shown in a first portion is coupled e.g. bonded to a second portion to form electrical circuit apparatus . In this embodiment the second portion may be similar to the first portion of the apparatus described herein with reference to . For example the second portion of apparatus may include a metallic structure at least one side surface a substrate one or more layers a substantially planar connection surface a via contact one or more interconnects and at least one circuit device that may be substantially similar to the first portion of apparatus including the metallic structure the at least one side surface the substrate the perimeter the one or more layers the substantially planar connection surface the via contact the one or more interconnects and the at least one circuit device . As such for simplicity further description on the details of second portion shall not be provided.

The coupling e.g. using plasma enhanced wafer bonding between the connection surface of the first portion and the connection surface of the second portion may form at least a hermetic interface proximate the metallic structure and the metallic structure to form at least a part of the moisture ingress barrier . An enlarged expanded partial cross sectional view of the dashed circle portion of showing the hermetic interface is depicted in . As shown the metallic structure e.g. more specifically the contact of the metallic structure of the first portion is metallically bonded to the metallic structure e.g. more specifically the contact of the metallic structure of the second portion to form the hermetic interface to form at least a part of the moisture ingress barrier to restrict e.g. prevent moisture from ingressing through the interface . Together the metallic structures and the hermetic interface form at least part of or all of the moisture ingress barrier . Further as described herein with reference to one or more regions of the first portion adjacent the metallic structure may also be covalently bonded to one or more regions adjacent the metallic structure of the second portion to form the hermetic interface . Still further the hermetic interface may be formed of both metallic bonds between the metallic structures and covalent bonds between one or more regions of the first and second portions adjacent the metallic structures .

Providing the first portion and providing the second portion may include fabricating a wafer e.g. a doped semiconductor wafer or starting with a pre fabbed foundry wafer. All of the structures described herein may be formed within or on such wafers. For example the first portion of apparatus as shown in may be processed to form the metallic structure by fabricating e.g. using any known fabrication processes including deposition patterning and or etching the one or more layers on the substrate terminating at a connection surface .

The process further includes coupling e.g. bonding the first portion to the second portion block . For example with reference to apparatus of the connection surface of the first portion may be bonded to the connection surface of the second portion such that the via contacts of the plurality of conductive vias of the first portion are in electrical contact with vias of the second portion . In one embodiment the connection surfaces may be bonded using an oxide bonding process forming an oxide interface therebetween. For example the connection surfaces may each be etched polished or planarized e.g. using a chemical mechanical planarization or polishing to expose conductive locations for example the metallic structure e.g. vias of the moisture ingress barrier the contacts etc. on the surfaces but leaving an oxide on the remaining portion of such surfaces . Thereafter the first portion may be aligned with the wafer substrate to for example match the plurality of contacts of the first portion with the vias of the second portion . The oxide bond may then be performed resulting in bonded oxide portions in the interface of the connection surfaces . Further in an embodiment where both the first and the second portions include metallic structures e.g. as described herein with reference to the metallic structures of each portion may be aligned before bonding so as to form at least part of the moisture ingress barrier.

The method presented in is only one example of a method that may be used to implement the apparatus described herein and is not to be taken as limiting to the scope of the disclosure provided herein. Various modifications to the process steps and or timing or order of the process steps may be made to the method while still providing the benefits of apparatus described herein.

Any features components and or properties of any of the embodiments described herein may be incorporated into any other embodiment s described herein.

All patents patent documents and references cited herein are incorporated in their entirety as if each were incorporated separately. This disclosure has been provided with reference to illustrative embodiments and is not meant to be construed in a limiting sense. As described previously one skilled in the art will recognize that other various illustrative applications may use the techniques as described herein to take advantage of the beneficial characteristics of the apparatus and methods described herein. Various modifications of the illustrative embodiments as well as additional embodiments of the disclosure will be apparent upon reference to this description.

