---

title: Systems and methods for detecting illegitimate messages on social networking platforms
abstract: A computer-implemented method for detecting illegitimate messages on social networking platforms may include 1) identifying a message sent via a social networking platform, 2) harvesting metadata from the social networking platform that describes a sender of the message, 3) determining, based at least in part on the metadata that describes the sender of the message, that the message is illegitimate, and 4) performing a remediation action on the message in response to determining that the message is illegitimate. Various other methods, systems, and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08955127&OS=08955127&RS=08955127
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 08955127
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120724
---
Internet users increasingly rely on cloud based services for social networking shopping gaming and other activities. Some cloud based services have achieved user bases of hundreds of millions of users and have extended their platforms to attract more users and or keep existing users within the services online ecosystems. For example some cloud based services have provided messaging mechanisms for users to privately and or publicly exchange and or share messages via these cloud based services.

In order to encourage user participation cloud based services may maintain relatively low standards for user registration and submissions. Unfortunately the large user bases available under these uniform platforms may attract those who wish to exploit large numbers of people potentially bringing scams phishing attempts spam attacks and or unwanted content to users. Traditional classification systems for identifying and remediating illegitimate content may fail to correctly classify all content resulting in undesired false positives and or false negatives. Furthermore traditional classification systems developed to combat email spam may rely on traditional email feature information such as the mail servers of origin email headers user agents etc. Accordingly the instant disclosure identifies and addresses a need for additional and improved systems and methods for detecting illegitimate messages on social networking platforms.

As will be described in greater detail below the instant disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for detecting illegitimate messages on social networking platforms by harvesting social networking data from the social networking platforms relating to senders of messages to determine whether messages are illegitimate. In one example a computer implemented method for detecting illegitimate messages on social networking platforms may include 1 identifying a message sent via a social networking platform 2 harvesting metadata from the social networking platform that describes a sender of the message 3 determining based at least in part on the metadata that describes the sender of the message that the message is illegitimate and 4 performing a remediation action on the message in response to determining that the message is illegitimate.

In some examples harvesting the metadata from the social networking platform may include harvesting metadata from the social networking platform describing a relationship between the sender of the message and a recipient of the message. As will be explained in greater detail below the relationship may include any of a variety of connections and or associations between the sender and the recipient extracted from the metadata.

In some embodiments harvesting the metadata may include 1 identifying a set of relationships between users of the social networking platform and 2 identifying a lack of a connection between the sender of the message and a recipient of the message via the set of relationships. In these embodiments determining that the message is illegitimate may include determining that the lack of the connection indicates that the message is illegitimate.

In one example harvesting the metadata may include identifying an amount of past communication between the sender of the message and a recipient of the message via the social networking platform. In this example determining that the message is illegitimate may include determining that the amount of past communication falls below a predetermined threshold.

In one embodiment harvesting the metadata may include identifying a locality of the sender of the message defined within a profile of the sender of the message within the social networking platform and a locality of the recipient of the message defined within a profile of the recipient of the message within the social networking platform. In this embodiment determining that the message is illegitimate may include determining that the locality of the sender of the message does not match the locality of the recipient of the message.

In some examples harvesting the metadata may include analyzing at least one past message sent from the sender of the message to the recipient of the message via the social networking platform to identify a topic of the past message. In these examples determining that the message is illegitimate may include determining that a topic of the message does not match the topic of the past message.

In some embodiments harvesting the metadata may include analyzing at least one past message sent from the sender of the message via the social networking platform to identify a writing style of the past message. In these embodiments determining that the message is illegitimate may include determining that the writing style of the message does not match the writing style of the past message.

In some examples determining that the message is illegitimate may further include 1 identifying a spam signature within the message 2 identifying a call to action within the message 3 identifying a malicious link within the message and or determining that at least a portion of the message is repeated in a plurality of additional messages sent via the social networking platform.

In some embodiments performing the remediation action may include 1 blocking the message and or 2 adding the message to a spam database.

In one embodiment a system for implementing the above described method may include 1 an identification module programmed to identify a message sent via a social networking platform 2 a harvesting module programmed to harvest metadata from the social networking platform that describes a sender of the message 3 a determination module programmed to determine based at least in part on the metadata that describes the sender of the message that the message is illegitimate and 4 a remediation module programmed to perform a remediation action on the message in response to determining that the message is illegitimate. In some examples the system may also include at least one processor configured to execute the identification module the harvesting module the determination module and the remediation module.

In some examples the above described method may be encoded as computer readable instructions on a computer readable storage medium. For example a computer readable storage medium may include one or more computer executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor of a computing device may cause the computing device to 1 identify a message sent via a social networking platform 2 harvest metadata from the social networking platform that describes a sender of the message 3 determine based at least in part on the metadata that describes the sender of the message that the message is illegitimate and 4 perform a remediation action on the message in response to determining that the message is illegitimate.

As will be explained in greater detail below by harvesting social networking data from the social networking platforms relating to senders of messages to determine whether messages are illegitimate the systems and methods described herein may leverage information about message senders that is stored generated maintained and or processed by social networking platforms e.g. information that may otherwise be unavailable to traditional message classification systems to evaluate the legitimacy of their messages thereby potentially improving the accuracy of message classification techniques.

Features from any of the above mentioned embodiments may be used in combination with one another in accordance with the general principles described herein. These and other embodiments features and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

Throughout the drawings identical reference characters and descriptions indicate similar but not necessarily identical elements. While the exemplary embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the instant disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

The following will provide with reference to and detailed descriptions of exemplary systems for detecting illegitimate messages on social networking platforms. Detailed descriptions of corresponding computer implemented methods will also be provided in connection with . In addition detailed descriptions of an exemplary computing system and network architecture capable of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein will be provided in connection with respectively.

In addition and as will be described in greater detail below exemplary system may include a determination module programmed to determine based at least in part on the metadata that describes the sender of the message that the message is illegitimate. Exemplary system may also include a remediation module programmed to perform a remediation action on the message in response to determining that the message is illegitimate. Although illustrated as separate elements one or more of modules in may represent portions of a single module or application.

In certain embodiments one or more of modules in may represent one or more software applications or programs that when executed by a computing device may cause the computing device to perform one or more tasks. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may represent software modules stored and configured to run on one or more computing devices such as the devices illustrated in e.g. computing device and or social networking server computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . One or more of modules in may also represent all or portions of one or more special purpose computers configured to perform one or more tasks.

Exemplary system in may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example all or a portion of exemplary system may represent portions of exemplary system in . As shown in system may include a computing device in communication with a social networking server via a network . For example computing device may include a security server configured to detect social networking spam. Additionally or alternatively computing device may include a client system that accesses a social networking service. In some examples computing device may include a computing device configured to execute one or more applications within a social networking platform.

In one embodiment one or more of modules from may when executed by at least one processor of computing device facilitate computing device in detecting illegitimate messages on social networking platforms. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may cause computing device to 1 identify a message sent via a social networking platform e.g. including social networking server 2 harvest metadata from social networking server that describes a sender account used to send message e.g. to be received and or viewed via a recipient account 3 determine based at least in part on metadata that describes sender account used to send message that message is illegitimate and 4 perform a remediation action on message in response to determining that message is illegitimate.

Computing device generally represents any type or form of computing device capable of reading computer executable instructions. Examples of computing device include without limitation desktops servers laptops tablets cellular phones personal digital assistants PDAs multimedia players embedded systems combinations of one or more of the same exemplary computing system in or any other suitable computing device.

Social networking server generally represents any type or form of computing device that is capable of performing one or more social networking functions and or storing generating and or relaying social networking data. Examples of social networking server include without limitation application servers and database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications.

Database may represent portions of a single database or computing device or a plurality of databases or computing devices. For example database may represent a portion of social networking server in computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . Alternatively database in may represent one or more physically separate devices capable of being accessed by a computing device such as social networking server in computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in .

Network generally represents any medium or architecture capable of facilitating communication or data transfer. Examples of network include without limitation an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a personal area network PAN the Internet power line communications PLC a cellular network e.g. a GSM Network exemplary network architecture in or the like. Network may facilitate communication or data transfer using wireless or wired connections. In one embodiment network may facilitate communication between computing device and social networking server .

As illustrated in at step one or more of the systems described herein may identify a message sent via a social networking platform. For example at step identification module may as part of computing device in identify message sent via a social networking platform e.g. including social networking server .

As used herein the phrase social networking platform may refer to any computing device and or devices software framework and or combination thereof usable for providing and or hosting a service e.g. via the Internet . In some examples the phrase social networking platform may refer to a platform that provides a social networking service. As used herein the phrase social networking service may refer to any service and or Internet site that manages social connections and or shares compiles formats and or broadcasts information based on social connections. Examples of social networking platforms may include FACEBOOK TWITTER GOOGLE LINKEDIN and FLICKR. In some examples the online service may host data and or process the data via cloud based applications e.g. web based email clients online calendar applications online picture albums etc. for personal and or private use. Additionally or alternatively the phrase social networking service as used herein may refer to any of a variety of online services that enable users to submit post and or transmit messages and that maintain information about users. For example the phrase social networking service as used herein may refer to online shopping services e.g. EBAY online gaming services e.g. HI5 online entertainment services e.g. YOUTUBE etc.

As used herein the term message may refer to any of a variety of text inclusive forms of communication via social networking platforms. Examples of messages may include private messages sent from one user of a social networking service to another user of the social networking service and to be accessed within the social networking service private messages sent from one user of a social networking service to an email account of another user of the social networking service private instant messages sent from one user of a social networking service to another user of the social networking service posts made to a profile wall and or account of a social networking service comments relating to content submitted to a social networking service etc. As used herein the term illegitimate message may refer to any message that is undesired by a social networking service a security service and or a potential recipient of the message. Examples of illegitimate messages may include spam messages messages with scams e.g. phishing attempts messages that potential violate terms of service messages that include and or facilitate malware etc. The message may originate in any of a variety of contexts. For example the message may originate from malware operating on a client device e.g. belonging to the sender that is connected to the social networking service. Additionally or alternatively the message may originate from a social networking application with access to an account of the sender on the social networking service e.g. the sender may have installed and or allowed access for a malicious social networking application .

Identification module may identify the message in any of a variety of contexts. For example identification module may identify the message by operating as a part of the social networking platform e.g. an application such as an anti spam application integrated with the social networking platform by operating as a part of a client accessing the social networking platform e.g. a web browser toolbar and or plugin and or by operating as a part of a stand alone service that has received an identification of the message from the social networking platform and or a client accessing the social networking platform.

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may harvest metadata from the social networking platform that describes a sender of the message. For example at step harvesting module may as part of computing device in harvest metadata from social networking server that describes sender account used to send message .

As used herein the term metadata may refer to any selection of data from a larger group of data and or any data describing one or more characteristics of the larger group of data. Accordingly the metadata may describe the sender of the message according to any of a variety of characteristics. Harvesting module may harvest the metadata in any of a variety of ways. For example harvesting module may operate as a part of the social networking platform and directly access one or more databases of the social networking platform. Additionally or alternatively harvesting module may operate as a part of a third party system and crawl public profiles messages and other publicly available data from the social networking platform to harvest the metadata. In some examples harvesting module may access an API of the social networking platform to harvest the metadata from the social networking platform. As used herein the term sender as applies to a message may refer to any account associated with the social networking platform that submitted the message to the social networking platform. In some examples harvesting module may save at least a portion of the metadata in a database for harvested metadata.

As mentioned above harvesting module may harvest any of a variety of types of metadata describing the sender. In some examples harvesting module may harvest metadata from the social networking platform describing a relationship between the sender of the message and a recipient of the message. As used herein the term relationship may refer to any relationship connection and or correlation between two or more user accounts of a social networking platform. As used herein the term recipient may refer to any account designated to receive view and or have access to the message e.g. as specified by the message and or the sender of the message . In some examples the recipient may not have received the message e.g. because one or more of the systems described herein may hold the message until determining whether the message is legitimate . In some examples the recipient may not be the sole recipient of the message for example the message may be addressed to multiple recipients and or may be submitted to a portion of the social networking service with multiple prospective viewers.

In some examples harvesting module may identify a set of relationships between users of the social networking platform. For example harvesting module may identify the contacts friends followers and or fans of the users to identify how the users relate to each other. As will be explained in greater detail below harvesting module may identify how any two users relate to each other e.g. whether the sender and a recipient of the message are directly connected within the social networking platform are indirectly connected e.g. sharing mutual contacts and or friends etc. . In some examples harvesting module may identify a lack of a connection between the sender of the message and the recipient of the message via the set of relationships. For example harvesting module may determine that the sender and the recipient are not mutual contacts within the social networking platform are not friends within the social networking platform and or are too distantly connected and or remotely related within the social networking platform e.g. removed by three or more degrees of friendship .

In some examples harvesting module may identify an amount of past communication between the sender of the message and a recipient of the message via the social networking platform. For example harvesting module may determine whether the sender has ever sent a message directly to the recipient. Additionally or alternatively harvesting module may determine if the recipient has ever accessed e.g. opened and or viewed a message sent by the sender. In some examples harvesting module may determine if the recipient has ever replied to a message from the sender and or initiated a message to the sender. In some examples harvesting module may determine how frequently and or how recently the sender and the recipient have communicated via the social networking platform.

In some examples harvesting module may identify a locality of the sender of the message defined within a profile of the sender of the message within the social networking platform and a locality of the recipient of the message defined within a profile of the recipient of the message within the social networking platform. As used herein the term profile may refer to any information within a social networking platform describing a user of the social networking platform. For example a profile may include biographical data about a user that was submitted by the user and or a contact of the user and or that was imported to the social networking platform from another service. As used herein the term locality may refer to any geographical location and or institution that may be shared by two or more users. Examples of localities include without limitation home street addresses workplaces educational institutions check in locations reviewed businesses cities countries and the like. Generally the term locality may refer to any social nexus outside of the social networking platform e.g. a place group and or institution whereby two users of the social networking platform may know each other independently of the social networking platform .

In some examples harvesting module may analyze at least one past message sent from the sender of the message to the recipient of the message via the social networking platform to identify a topic of the past message. As used herein the term topic may refer to any semantic feature of an electronic message. For example the term topic may refer to any latent semantic element e.g. a concept subject matter etc. represented within and or used to generate a message. Additionally or alternatively the term topic may refer to an explicit semantic categorization of the past message.

Harvesting module may identify the topic in any of a variety of ways. For example harvesting module may analyze content of the past message to extract the topic. For example harvesting module may perform a semantic analysis on the content of the past message to extract the topic. As used herein the phrase semantic analysis may refer to any technique for identifying topics within extracting topics from and or attributing topics to a corpus of messages. For example the semantic analysis may include a latent Dirichlet allocation applied to a set of training documents e.g. messages . Additionally or alternatively the semantic analysis may include the use of a different topic model e.g. probabilistic latent semantic analysis . In an additional example harvesting module may extract the topic from the content of the past message by identifying keywords within the past message that indicate the topic. Additionally or alternatively extraction module may identify one or more links to additional resources within the past message and identify the topic of the past message at least in part by identifying a topic and or categorization of the additional resources.

In some examples harvesting module may analyze multiple past messages from the sender to identify one or more typical topics of the past messages. In some examples harvesting module may analyze past messages from the sender to identify traditionally suspect topics e.g. to determine whether the sender has sent legitimate messages about the traditionally suspect topics such as pharmaceutical sales pornography online gambling and the like.

In some examples harvesting module may analyze one or more past messages sent from the sender via the social networking platform to identify a language of the past messages. For example harvesting module may determine that the sender typically sends messages in Russian that the sender occasionally sends messages in French and or that the sender never sends messages in English. In cases in which the sender has sent past messages to a recipient of the message harvesting module may determine which language the sender has used to communicate with the recipient.

In some examples harvesting module may analyze one or more past messages sent from the sender via the social networking platform to identify a writing style of the past messages. The writing style may include any of a variety of characteristics of the past messages. For example the writing style may include average word counts average word lengths grammatical patterns punctuation usage capitalization patterns dialects used key words used or not used correct and or incorrect spelling patterns French spacing vs. English spacing etc. In cases in which the sender has sent past messages to a recipient of the message harvesting module may determine the writing style that the sender has used to communicate with the recipient in the past.

In some examples harvesting module may analyze one or more past messages sent from the sender via the social networking platform to identify sending times of the past messages. For example harvesting module may identify a typical time window of sent messages e.g. 9 00 am to 5 00 pm 9 00 pm to 2 00 am on Fridays and Saturdays etc. . In some examples harvesting module may identify a typical time window of past messages sent by the sender to a recipient of the message.

In some examples harvesting module may also identify one or more instances of the message and or portions of the message found outside the social networking platform e.g. caught by email spam filters outside the social networking platform .

Using as an example harvesting module may harvest metadata from social networking server . For example harvesting module may analyze user profile of the sender of message . Additionally or alternatively harvesting module may analyze past messages and sent by the sender of message via the social networking platform. As shown in system may include a harvesting database . In some examples harvesting module may store the harvested metadata in harvesting database e.g. for use in determining whether the message is illegitimate and or for future use in determining the legitimacy of future messages .

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may determine based at least in part on the metadata that describes the sender of the message that the message is illegitimate. For example at step determination module may as part of computing device in determine based at least in part on metadata that describes sender account used to send message that message is illegitimate.

As mentioned earlier in some examples one or more of the systems described herein e.g. harvesting module may identify a set of relationships between users of the social networking platform. For example harvesting module may identify the contacts friends followers and or fans of the users to identify how the users relate to each other. In some examples harvesting module may identify a lack of a connection between the sender of the message and the recipient of the message via the set of relationships. For example harvesting module may determine that the sender and the recipient are not mutual contacts within the social networking platform are not friends within the social networking platform and or are too distantly connected and or remotely related within the social networking platform e.g. removed by three or more degrees of friendship . In these examples determination module may determine that the message is illegitimate based at least in part on determining that the lack the connection indicates that the message is illegitimate. For example determination module may determine that the message is illegitimate based at least in part on determining that the sender and the recipient are not friends within the social networking platform and or friends of friends within the social networking platform.

As mentioned earlier in some examples one or more of the systems described herein e.g. harvesting module may identify an amount of past communication between the sender of the message and a recipient of the message via the social networking platform. In these examples determination module may determine that the amount of past communication falls below a predetermined threshold. For example determination module may determine that the sender has never sent a message directly to the recipient and that the message is therefore likely illegitimate. Additionally or alternatively determination module may determine that the recipient has never accessed e.g. opened and or viewed a message sent by the sender and that the message is therefore likely illegitimate. In some examples determination module may determine that the recipient has never replied to a message from the sender and or initiated a message to the sender and that the message is therefore likely illegitimate. In some examples determination module may determine that the frequency of communications between the sender and the recipient and or how recently the sender and recipient have communicated via the social networking platform does not meet a predetermined threshold and that the message is therefore likely illegitimate.

As mentioned earlier in some examples one or more of the systems described herein e.g. harvesting module may identify a locality of the sender of the message defined within a profile of the sender of the message within the social networking platform and a locality of the recipient of the message defined within a profile of the recipient of the message within the social networking platform. In these examples determination module may determine that the locality of the sender of the message does not match the locality of the recipient of the message. For example determination module may determine that the message is likely illegitimate based on determining that the sender and the recipient do not share a common city a common workplace a common educational institution a common religious affiliation a common club a common check in location etc.

As mentioned earlier in some examples one or more of the systems described herein e.g. harvesting module may analyze at least one past message sent from the sender of the message to the recipient of the message via the social networking platform to identify a topic of the past message. In these examples determination module may determine that the topic of the message does not match the topic of the past message and or messages. For example determination module may determine that the sender typically sends messages about politics and stocks and that these topics do not match the topic of the message e.g. pharmaceutical sales .

As mentioned earlier in some examples one or more of the systems described herein e.g. harvesting module may analyze one or more past messages sent from the sender via the social networking platform to identify a language of the past messages. In these examples determination module may determine that the language of the past messages does not match the language of the message. For example determination module may determine that the sender typically communicates in Spanish but that the message is in English. Determination module may therefore determine that the message is likely illegitimate.

As mentioned earlier in some examples one or more of the system described herein e.g. harvesting module may analyze one or more past messages sent from the sender via the social networking platform to identify a writing style of the past messages. In these examples determination module may determine that the writing style of the message does not match the writing style of the past messages. For example determination module may determine that the writing style of the past messages indicates typically short messages including no capitalization and using non standard English spellings for certain English words and phrases. Determination module may determine that this writing style does not match the writing style of the message including a long message capitalization and standard spellings for the same English words and phrases. Determination module may therefore determine that the message is likely illegitimate.

As mentioned earlier in some examples one or more of the systems described herein e.g. harvesting module may analyze one or more past messages sent from the sender via the social networking platform to identify sending times of the past messages. In these examples determination module may determine that the typical times of past messages do not match the time that the message was sent. For example determination module may determine that the past messages typically were sent in the day time and that the message was sent in the middle of the night.

In some examples determination module may also identify one or more characteristics of the message as a part of determining that the message is illegitimate. For example determination module may identify a spam signature within the message. In this example determination module may determine that a hash of the message and or a portion of the message matches a hash within a spam database. As another example determination module may submit the message to a spam categorization model that categorizes the message as spam and or potential spam. In some examples determination module may identify a call to action within the message. For example determination module may a link e.g. a link to a malicious Internet resource an email address a phone number and or SMS number as an implicit call to action within the message. In another example determination module may determine that at least a portion of the message is repeated in a plurality of additional messages via the social networking platform. For example determination module may determine that the message has been independently sent by unrelated senders e.g. without one sender having received the message from another sender thereby indicating the possibility that the message was forwarded within the social networking platform . In this example determination module may determine that the message is likely illegitimate and represents a hijacking of multiple accounts within the social networking service.

Using as an example determination module may determine that message is illegitimate based on 1 stylistic substantive and or linguistic differences between past messages and sent from a user of client e.g. with user profile to users of clients and message sent to a user of client 2 a lack of social networking connections within the social networking platform between user profiles and and or 3 a lack of past communications between users of user profiles and on the social networking platform.

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may perform a remediation action on the message in response to determining that the message is illegitimate. For example at step remediation module may as part of computing device in perform a remediation action on message in response to determining that message is illegitimate.

Remediation module may perform any of a variety of remediation actions. In some examples remediation module may block the message e.g. blocking the message from an inbox of the intended recipient from being posted to a wall and or as a comment to content etc. . In some examples remediation module may forward the message for human analysis e.g. to verify whether it is actually illegitimate . In some examples remediation module may warn the recipient and or a social networking administrator the message may be illegitimate. Additionally or alternatively remediation module may add the message to a spam database. In some examples remediation module may use the message to train a spam classifier. For example remediation module may identify a structure of the message e.g. identifying personal names links application names stemming words etc. and then submit the message structure into a text classification algorithm e.g. a support vector machine a na ve bayes classifier a maximum entropy modeler etc. . Accordingly these systems and methods may not only prevent current illegitimate messages but use identified illegitimate messages to prevent future illegitimate messages.

Using as an example remediation module may block message e.g. from being viewed on client present a warning message to client and or submit message to a spam database .

As explained above by harvesting social networking data from the social networking platforms relating to senders of messages to determine whether messages are illegitimate the systems and methods described herein may leverage information about message senders that is stored generated maintained and or processed by social networking platforms e.g. information that may otherwise be unavailable to traditional message classification systems to evaluate the legitimacy of their messages thereby potentially improving the accuracy of message classification techniques.

Computing system broadly represents any single or multi processor computing device or system capable of executing computer readable instructions. Examples of computing system include without limitation workstations laptops client side terminals servers distributed computing systems handheld devices or any other computing system or device. In its most basic configuration computing system may include at least one processor and a system memory .

Processor generally represents any type or form of processing unit capable of processing data or interpreting and executing instructions. In certain embodiments processor may receive instructions from a software application or module. These instructions may cause processor to perform the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein.

System memory generally represents any type or form of volatile or non volatile storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. Examples of system memory include without limitation random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory or any other suitable memory device. Although not required in certain embodiments computing system may include both a volatile memory unit such as for example system memory and a non volatile storage device such as for example primary storage device as described in detail below . In one example one or more of modules from may be loaded into system memory .

In certain embodiments exemplary computing system may also include one or more components or elements in addition to processor and system memory . For example as illustrated in computing system may include a memory controller an Input Output I O controller and a communication interface each of which may be interconnected via a communication infrastructure . Communication infrastructure generally represents any type or form of infrastructure capable of facilitating communication between one or more components of a computing device. Examples of communication infrastructure include without limitation a communication bus such as an ISA PCI PCIe or similar bus and a network.

Memory controller generally represents any type or form of device capable of handling memory or data or controlling communication between one or more components of computing system . For example in certain embodiments memory controller may control communication between processor system memory and I O controller via communication infrastructure .

I O controller generally represents any type or form of module capable of coordinating and or controlling the input and output functions of a computing device. For example in certain embodiments I O controller may control or facilitate transfer of data between one or more elements of computing system such as processor system memory communication interface display adapter input interface and storage interface .

Communication interface broadly represents any type or form of communication device or adapter capable of facilitating communication between exemplary computing system and one or more additional devices. For example in certain embodiments communication interface may facilitate communication between computing system and a private or public network including additional computing systems. Examples of communication interface include without limitation a wired network interface such as a network interface card a wireless network interface such as a wireless network interface card a modem and any other suitable interface. In at least one embodiment communication interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct link to a network such as the Internet. Communication interface may also indirectly provide such a connection through for example a local area network such as an Ethernet network a personal area network a telephone or cable network a cellular telephone connection a satellite data connection or any other suitable connection.

In certain embodiments communication interface may also represent a host adapter configured to facilitate communication between computing system and one or more additional network or storage devices via an external bus or communications channel. Examples of host adapters include without limitation SCSI host adapters USB host adapters IEEE 1394 host adapters SATA and eSATA host adapters ATA and PATA host adapters Fibre Channel interface adapters Ethernet adapters or the like. Communication interface may also allow computing system to engage in distributed or remote computing. For example communication interface may receive instructions from a remote device or send instructions to a remote device for execution.

As illustrated in computing system may also include at least one display device coupled to communication infrastructure via a display adapter . Display device generally represents any type or form of device capable of visually displaying information forwarded by display adapter . Similarly display adapter generally represents any type or form of device configured to forward graphics text and other data from communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer as known in the art for display on display device .

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include at least one input device coupled to communication infrastructure via an input interface . Input device generally represents any type or form of input device capable of providing input either computer or human generated to exemplary computing system . Examples of input device include without limitation a keyboard a pointing device a speech recognition device or any other input device.

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include a primary storage device and a backup storage device coupled to communication infrastructure via a storage interface . Storage devices and generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. For example storage devices and may be a magnetic disk drive e.g. a so called hard drive a solid state drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash drive or the like. Storage interface generally represents any type or form of interface or device for transferring data between storage devices and and other components of computing system .

In certain embodiments storage devices and may be configured to read from and or write to a removable storage unit configured to store computer software data or other computer readable information. Examples of suitable removable storage units include without limitation a floppy disk a magnetic tape an optical disk a flash memory device or the like. Storage devices and may also include other similar structures or devices for allowing computer software data or other computer readable instructions to be loaded into computing system . For example storage devices and may be configured to read and write software data or other computer readable information. Storage devices and may also be a part of computing system or may be a separate device accessed through other interface systems.

Many other devices or subsystems may be connected to computing system . Conversely all of the components and devices illustrated in need not be present to practice the embodiments described and or illustrated herein. The devices and subsystems referenced above may also be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Computing system may also employ any number of software firmware and or hardware configurations. For example one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program also referred to as computer software software applications computer readable instructions or computer control logic on a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium generally refers to any form of device carrier or medium capable of storing or carrying computer readable instructions. Examples of computer readable storage media include without limitation transmission type media such as carrier waves and non transitory type media such as magnetic storage media e.g. hard disk drives and floppy disks optical storage media e.g. CD or DVD ROMs electronic storage media e.g. solid state drives and flash media and other distribution systems.

The computer readable storage medium containing the computer program may be loaded into computing system . All or a portion of the computer program stored on the computer readable storage medium may then be stored in system memory and or various portions of storage devices and . When executed by processor a computer program loaded into computing system may cause processor to perform and or be a means for performing the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein may be implemented in firmware and or hardware. For example computing system may be configured as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC adapted to implement one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

Client systems and generally represent any type or form of computing device or system such as exemplary computing system in . Similarly servers and generally represent computing devices or systems such as application servers or database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications. Network generally represents any telecommunication or computer network including for example an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a personal area network PAN or the Internet. In one example client systems and or and or servers and or may include all or a portion of system from .

As illustrated in one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Similarly one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Storage devices N and storage devices N generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. In certain embodiments storage devices N and storage devices N may represent network attached storage NAS devices configured to communicate with servers and using various protocols such as NFS SMB or CIFS.

Servers and may also be connected to a storage area network SAN fabric . SAN fabric generally represents any type or form of computer network or architecture capable of facilitating communication between a plurality of storage devices. SAN fabric may facilitate communication between servers and and a plurality of storage devices N and or an intelligent storage array . SAN fabric may also facilitate via network and servers and communication between client systems and and storage devices N and or intelligent storage array in such a manner that devices N and array appear as locally attached devices to client systems and . As with storage devices N and storage devices N storage devices N and intelligent storage array generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions.

In certain embodiments and with reference to exemplary computing system of a communication interface such as communication interface in may be used to provide connectivity between each client system and and network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server or using for example a web browser or other client software. Such software may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N or intelligent storage array . Although depicts the use of a network such as the Internet for exchanging data the embodiments described and or illustrated herein are not limited to the Internet or any particular network based environment.

In at least one embodiment all or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program and loaded onto and executed by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N intelligent storage array or any combination thereof. All or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may also be encoded as a computer program stored in server run by server and distributed to client systems and over network .

As detailed above computing system and or one or more components of network architecture may perform and or be a means for performing either alone or in combination with other elements one or more steps of an exemplary method for detecting illegitimate messages on social networking platforms.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

In some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of a cloud computing or network based environment. Cloud computing environments may provide various services and applications via the Internet. These cloud based services e.g. software as a service platform as a service infrastructure as a service etc. may be accessible through a web browser or other remote interface. Various functions described herein may be provided through a remote desktop environment or any other cloud based computing environment.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

While various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable storage media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

In addition one or more of the modules described herein may transform data physical devices and or representations of physical devices from one form to another. For example one or more of the modules recited herein may transform a computing device into a device for detecting illegitimate messages on social networking platforms.

The preceding description has been provided to enable others skilled in the art to best utilize various aspects of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein. This exemplary description is not intended to be exhaustive or to be limited to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the instant disclosure. The embodiments disclosed herein should be considered in all respects illustrative and not restrictive. Reference should be made to the appended claims and their equivalents in determining the scope of the instant disclosure.

Unless otherwise noted the terms a or an as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of. In addition for ease of use the words including and having as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. 

