---

title: Method for producing a georeference model from bathymetric data
abstract: Creating a georeference model from input bathymetric data includes defining a search limit grid and establishing a geometric model. An iterative RANSAC process is used to fit bathymetric data calculate the geometric model for each cell of the grid. Points that are too far away from the geometric model are removed, and geometric models are recalculated. The compiled geometric models are used as the georeference model. In further embodiments, the georeference model can be smoothed to remove boundaries between cells. Other embodiments provide for using the georeference model for navigation and data transmission.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08605549&OS=08605549&RS=08605549
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08605549
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120523
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates to the field of bathymetry specifically technology for identifying a uniform distribution data set for producing bathymetric surface maps.

Underwater navigation has been and continues to be problematic. Navigation technologies commonly used on land such as Global Positioning Systems GPS are unreliable for underwater navigation. Electromagnetic wave dissipation in water renders technologies such as GPS useless. Without underwater beacons or long baseline navigation vehicles operating underwater need to autonomously determine their position. Changes in vessel pitch caused by the acceleration of the vessel or other factors can alter the accuracy of bathymetric data substantially. It is necessary to develop and use detailed underwater maps for non traditional navigation methods.

Known bathymetric software cannot accurately characterize continuously changing bathymetric data sets without complex time consuming calculations. For example the gridding method a mapping system employed by current software programs known in the art for characterizing underwater terrain defines grid node locations or a fixed number of points to use in a particular grid cell. Because the gridding method relies on a defined grid location or a fixed number of points it is an unreliable method for mapping terrain which is constantly changing skewing the accuracy of a resulting map. In addition the calculations to determine more accurate data from the gridding method require time consuming processing of complex mathematical models such as multiple regression analysis.

Autonomous underwater vehicles AUVs currently rely on the contours of bathymetric surface maps that often contain antiquated or inadequate data. Significant topographical information known as georeferences may not appear on those maps. Missed georeferences can cause navigational errors and interfere with AUV missions or even damage expensive AUVs.

For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 675 teaches a system for integrating multiple mappable variables by determining grid node values and associating the grid node values with a map index to create a grid node suite. Cluster locations are used to assign earth features to create a map. U.S. Pat. No. 6 721 694 teaches a system using grid cell spacing for mapping the depths of seabed floors. However neither system addresses the effects of outlier and anomaly data. Because these systems cannot adjust for such data resulting bathymetric maps can contain multiple inaccuracies.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 337 069 teaches a system for measuring the thicknesses of sedimentary layers in a basin using existing topographical and seismic data and applying an iterative inversion procedure. While the iterative processes make this system more reliable for determining the thicknesses of underwater sedimentary sequences this system is also not sufficiently accurate for creating reliable underwater maps for use by AUVs.

U.S. patent application Ser Nos. 11 654 015 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 060 254 and 12 311 050 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 295 554 teach methods for generating maps using RANSAC algorithms. However both methods are designed for mapping above water terrain which is less changeable. Neither method is able to generate a reliable map of underwater terrain or capable of effectively filtering of outlier data.

The present invention is a bathymetric data processing system which processes outlier data using a RANSAC algorithm to create a georeference model from an observed data sample to identify a uniform distribution data set enabling the production of an accurate bathymetric map.

The bathymetric mapping software can map bathymetric data on a graphical interface that is more accurate and easily understood than the data characterized by bathymetric maps from software that is known in the art. The invention can represent underwater terrain with any three dimensional surface. The bathymetric mapping software can also process and integrate data from different datasets utilizing different scales of measurement. The bathymetric mapping software can also characterize data having different graph types including planar models bi quadratic models spline graphs and the like. Autonomous underwater vehicles AUVs can reference bathymetric maps containing accurate and updated information provided by the bathymetric mapping software.

For the purpose of promoting an understanding of the present invention references are made in the text to exemplary embodiments of software that can process smooth and grid bathymetric data into a uniform distribution data set. It should be understood that no limitations on the scope of the invention are intended by describing these exemplary embodiments. One of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that alternate but functionally equivalent bathymetric mapping software may be used. The inclusion of additional elements may be deemed readily apparent and obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art. Specific elements disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but rather as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one of ordinary skill in the art to employ the present invention.

The term bathymetric surface map refers to a topographical map characterizing underwater terrain. The term existing bathymetric reference refers to existing bathymetric data that can be modified or integrated with new surface maps. A georeference is a location in terms of map coordinates latitude and longitude or displacements relative to a known point . The term georeference model refers to a planar or non planar model that that gives the depth for a provided georeference. Geometric model refers to the geometric shape that is being fit to the points of bathymetric data. As used herein a grid is a collection of uniform sized cells and grid size refers the user defined dimensions of a grid to characterize a bathymetric data set. The term inlier refers to a data point in a bathymetric data set that is in accordance with a calculated georeference model based on a calculated user defined tolerance. The term outlier refers to a data point in a bathymetric data set that is distant from a calculated georeference model based on a calculated user defined tolerance because of either a gross local variation or an inaccuracy in the bathymetric data set. As used herein the term RANSAC refers to the random sample consensus algorithm which is an iterative method to estimate parameters of a mathematical model from a set of observed data. As used herein the term real time means a system having strict constraints on response time to allow a response effectively on user demand. The term search limit grid refers to a grid created by the software with narrower parameters than the grid defined by the user to filter out irrelevant data.

As used herein the term uniform distribution data set refers to a data set with a consistent pattern created by discarding outlier data. The term user refers to any person computer processor hardware firmware software or device capable of providing or receiving data necessary to perform or produced by a method for identifying uniform distribution data sets for bathymetric surface maps. User defined refers to any input or value chosen by the user operating the software. The term value of probability refers to a value representing the likelihood that a particular data point is located within a georeference model.

The method for bathymetric data processing enhances the accuracy of measurements by using processing components to characterize changes in bathymetric data. The method can characterize changes in bathymetric data by using a grid pattern that contains a plurality of grid nodes and by processing data corrupted by outliers and measurement errors.

In step of the exemplary embodiment shown at least one bathymetric data set is received. A data set may include but is not limited to data about the slope elevation orientation other characteristics or combination of characteristics concerning underwater terrain. In some embodiments data may be received from an autonomous underwater vehicle. This data set includes both inlier and outlier data. This data set can include both newly acquired data sets and pre existing data sets.

In step the data is processed into a three dimensional search limit grid having a grid size computed in software based on parameters defined by the user. In one exemplary embodiment the user can select a grid size based on depth northing and easting that features 10 meters of depth 10 meters of northing and 10 meters of easting. Northing and easting are distances measured north and east from an origin. This grid size can be based on known bathymetric features such as slopes valleys and peaks. In further exemplary embodiments the user can select the dimensions and size of a grid best suited for a specific bathymetric mapping task.

Step is the step of selecting a user defined values of probability. Two user defined probability values are necessary. A first user defined probability value p represents the probability that at least one set of points falls within a georeference model representing a uniform distribution data set. The georeference model can be constructed from many different geometric models. These include a planar geometric model a bi quadratic geometric model and a spline model. The particular geometric model can be chosen based on knowledge of the application and the bottom conditions. Because a plane is defined by three points three points make up the minimum sample set MSS for a planar model. Five points make up the MSS for a bi quadratic model. Other geometric models may require other minimum sample sets. The second probability value w is the probability that any MSS will fit the underlying model. p is the probability that at least one MSS will define the underlying model. A geometric model is calculated for each cell of the overall georeference model.

The number of iterations necessary to produce a result with reliability that conforms to user defined probability is calculated in step . This is determined in the equation below. n is the number of points which for MSS using a planar geometric model n 3. RANSAC determines the minimum number of k trials required to achieve p with the following equation 

Next in step MSS subsets of points within the data sample are randomly selected to determine the probability w that any MSS will fit the underlying model. The MSS is used to compute the geometric model fitting the points.

Iterations are performed in step to determine the parameters of the geometric model for a single cell using a RANSAC algorithm. This computation obtains a consensus for the best fit of the geometric model based on the standard deviation of the MSS subsets of points. Step iterates step until the previously calculated k number of iterations have been executed. This produces a consensus geometric model for the cell. In step the desired bathymetric data is produced by discarding the outlier data. Outlier data is the data that exceeds a statistical measure away from the consensus geometric model. This statistical measure can be a standard deviation a user established threshold or some other calculated value. The remaining data is the uniform distribution data set. The process for discarding outlier data will be described further hereinafter. Step iteratively processes other cells within the search limit grid. Finally in step a georeference model is created to using the retained and updated data. This georeference model represents a compilation of coefficients for the cells of the search limit grid. The coefficients mathematically describe the geometric model of each cell. A further routine can be used in step to smooth the boundary between cells to give a final georeference model. A graphical user interface configured with software can then display the georeference model as a bathymetric map.

In further exemplary embodiments the updated bathymetric data set may be used to create a bathymetric surface map or update or otherwise modify existing bathymetric references or surface maps. In still further exemplary embodiments updated uniform distribution set data may be compared to existing bathymetric data sets to generate a comparison report. In further exemplary embodiments resulting updated uniform distribution data sets may be interpreted to establish parameters of the functions performed. For example updated bathymetric data may be interpreted to establish parameters for enhancing verifying correcting updating deleting and obscuring bathymetric data sets. In some exemplary embodiments the interpretation of data and the establishment of parameters may be performed remotely using a remote processor. In still further exemplary embodiments updated bathymetric data may be translated to a telemetry protocol and transmitted to a satellite or other remote location.

A second remote transmitter transfers uniform data distribution characterized by georeference model to AUV . In another exemplary embodiment telemetry encoder broadcasts uniform distribution data set determined by georeference model to satellite or some other remote location. System may also include one or more databases for storing pre existing and updated georeference models data sets and other temporary or permanent information generated while creating a uniform distribution data set.

Determining the average of the distances between each segment is necessary for showing the nodes of the grid cells. The intersection of each dashed line is a node of each grid cell. When the method for identifying a uniform distribution data set locates the nodes of each grid cell the necessary calculations for discarding outlier data can begin.

As such illustrates a comparative representation of inlier data sets and which can later be used to craft a bathymetric surface map. This includes a method for creating a georeference model identifying a uniform distribution data set. However the data needs to be narrowed into a more uniform distribution data set in order for the data to be useful to craft an accurate bathymetric surface map.

Because autonomous underwater vehicles AUVs rely on sonar to collect bathymetric data dramatic variances in data can result from changes in pitch caused by the acceleration of AUVs. This explains the dramatic gap in depth between inlier data distributions and within georeference model shown in this exemplary embodiment. Interpolation methods known in the art such as multiple regression are complex and computationally intensive. Because of the use of outlier input data in interpolation calculations known in the art the newly determined distribution of data would still suffer from accuracy issues.

Georeference model consequently possesses a more accurate inlier data set with a narrower range than the inlier data sets and shown in . illustrates how this embodiment of a method for creating a bathymetric georeference model narrows a set of bathymetric data into an accurate and more useful uniform distribution data set than the inlier data sets and as shown in .

The accuracy of interpolation is greater when the data has a unified distribution. Consequently the method for producing a uniform distribution data set with a georeference model results in the creation of accurate bathymetric surface maps. In other embodiments this method for producing a uniform distribution data set can also characterize georeference models as a biquadratic model or as a spline in addition to a planar model.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

