---

title: Preparation and compositions of highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur and uses thereof
abstract: The present invention features sulfur-rich compositions and preparations thereof that are safe and effective as hydrogen sulfide prodrugs of high bioavailability. The invention also includes methods of treating pathological conditions associated with oxidative stress using sulfur-rich compositions. The invention further includes sulfur-rich compositions as antidotes and medical food for preserving and promoting general health.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08771755&OS=08771755&RS=08771755
owner: Nuevas Alternativas Naturales, S.A.P.I. de C.V.
number: 08771755
owner_city: Monterrey
owner_country: MX
publication_date: 20120913
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 534 585 filed Sep. 13 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

In general the invention features zerovalent sulfur rich compositions and methods of preparation formulation and prevention and treatment of pathological conditions associated with oxidative stress.

Despite the abundance of medications to lower blood pressure reduce cholesterol and treat cardiovascular conditions cardiovascular disease remains the number one killer in the United States. The incidence of cardiovascular problems is likely to continue its steady rise as the Baby Boomer generation ages and as obesity and diabetes rates continue to rise. Therefore development of better therapies is of utmost importance.

Hydrogen sulfide HS is a recognized endogenous signaling molecule that has been shown to modulate immune and mitochondrial function act both directly and indirectly as an antioxidant and increase blood flow by a variety of mechanisms. In addition hydrogen sulfide is a potent anti inflammatory agent and modulator of cell death. This plethora of properties makes hydrogen sulfide an ideal candidate for the treatment of cardiovascular disease cancers inflammatory disease diabetes dyslipidemia neurodegenerative disease AIDS and other pathological conditions associated with oxidative stress an imbalance in redox homeostasis and or immune dysfunction.

Whereas the main physiological roles of HS are in signaling and cytoprotection in normal i.e. non transformed cells and tissues it is now clear that in transformed i.e. malignant cells HS displays prooxidant and proapoptotic effects. These effects constitute the basis for developing a novel therapeutic and or prophylactic approach to treat conditions associated with uncontrolled cell growth such as cancer and other hyperproliferative diseases.

Hydrogen sulfide is produced endogenously from cysteine by the enzymes cystathionine beta synthase cystathionine gamma lyase and 3 mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase. Hydrogen sulfide prodrugs can provide an exogenous source for hydrogen sulfide in the body however currently used hydrogen sulfide prodrugs contain no more than 57 bioactive sulfur sulfur capable of being converted into hydrogen sulfide in vivo . On the other hand it has become increasingly clear that sodium hydrogen sulfide NaHS also known as sodium hydrosulfide which contains 57 bioactive sulfur releases hydrogen sulfide in a sudden and uncontrolled manner when injected into the body of a mammal whereas it is highly unlikely that cells or tissues are ever exposed to HS generated in such manner. Therefore there is a need to identify hydrogen sulfide prodrugs that are safe and effective are active when orally administered release HS in a controlled and sustained manner and have high bioavailability for treatment of cardiovascular disease cancer inflammatory disease diabetes dyslipidemia neurodegenerative disease AIDS and other pathological conditions associated with oxidative stress an imbalance in redox homeostasis and or immune dysfunction.

The invention features a composition including 90 99.9 w w elemental alpha sulfur and 0.01 10 w w highly polar components. In certain embodiments the composition can optionally include one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. In other embodiments the composition can include about 99 w w zerovalent sulfur and about 1 w w highly polar components wherein the highly polar components are selected from sodium sulfate sodium polythionates and sodium thiosulfate.

The invention also features a composition including an elemental alpha sulfur and one or more highly polar components in a ratio from about 10 to about 150 parts elemental alpha sulfur to 1 part highly polar components w w for enteral topical or parenteral administration. In certain embodiments the ratio of elemental alpha sulfur to highly polar components is 15 1 20 1 30 1 35 1 40 1 45 1 50 1 55 1 60 1 70 1 80 1 90 1 100 1 110 1 120 1 130 1 140 1 or 145 1.

In some embodiments a composition of the invention is formulated for enteral administration and the elemental alpha sulfur and the highly polar components are present together in an amount of 400 mg. In one aspect of the embodiment the composition is a capsule.

In other embodiments a composition of the invention is formulated for topical administration and the composition includes 1 20 zerovalent sulfur content. In one aspect of the embodiment the composition is a cream. In one aspect the cream includes i 5 20 zerovalent sulfur content and ii polyethylene glycol or petroleum jelly. In another aspect the cream includes 5 15 zerovalent sulfur content. In certain embodiments the cream includes 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 or 19 zerovalent sulfur content.

For any of the above compositions the highly polar components can be selected from the group consisting of sodium polythionate potassium polythionate ammonium polythionate calcium polythionate sodium thiosulfate potassium thiosulfate ammonium thiosulfate calcium thiosulfate sodium sulfate potassium sulfate ammonium sulfate sodium bisulfite potassium bisulfite ammonium bisulfite calcium bisulfite sodium chloride potassium chloride ammonium chloride calcium chloride sodium acetate sodium palmitate potassium palmitate and ammonium laurate.

In certain embodiments the compositions of the invention further include a third agent. In some embodiments the third agent is a cardiovascular disease drug an anti inflammatory drug an anti neurodegenerative drug or an anticancer anti proliferative drug. In other embodiments the third agent is a dietary supplement. In certain aspects of the invention the elemental alpha sulfur the highly polar components and the third agent are present in an effective amount to treat a condition associated with oxidative stress. In other aspects the elemental alpha sulfur the highly polar components and the third agent are present in an effective amount to promote or maintain general health.

The invention also features a method for preparing a composition including 90 99.9 w w elemental alpha sulfur and 0.01 10 w w highly polar components the method includes a providing a first inorganic compound including sulfur in the 2 minus two oxidation state b reacting the first inorganic compound with a second compound including sulfur in the 4 plus four oxidation state and optionally an acid wherein the reacting produces a composition including 90 99.9 w w elemental alpha sulfur and 0.01 10 w w highly polar components.

In one embodiment the first inorganic compound is sodium hydrogen sulfide or sodium sulfide. In a second embodiment the second inorganic compound is sodium metabisulfite sodium bisulfite or sodium sulfite. In a third embodiment the acid is concentrated sulfuric acid.

The invention also features a method of treating a condition associated with oxidative stress in a subject in need thereof by administering an effective amount of a composition including 90 99.9 w w elemental alpha sulfur and 0.01 10 w w highly polar components and optionally including one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. In certain aspects the composition can also include about 99 w w zerovalent sulfur and about 1 w w highly polar components wherein the highly polar components are selected from sodium sulfate sodium polythionates and sodium thiosulfate.

In another aspect the invention also features a method of treating a condition associated with oxidative stress in a subject in need thereof by administering an effective amount of a composition including an elemental alpha sulfur and one or more highly polar components in a ratio from about 10 to about 150 parts elemental alpha sulfur to 1 part highly polar components w w for enteral topical or parenteral administration.

In some embodiments the condition associated with oxidative stress is selected from the group consisting of schizophrenia bipolar disorder fragile X syndrome sickle cell disease chronic fatigue syndrome osteoarthritis cataract macular degeneration toxic hepatitis viral hepatitis cirrhosis chronic hepatitis oxidative stress from dialysis renal toxicity kidney failure ulcerative colitis bacterial infection viral infections such as HIV and AIDS herpes ear infection upper respiratory tract diseases hypertension balding and hair loss male infertility over training syndrome related to athletic performance athlete s foot psoriases eczema scleroderma atopic dermatitis polymyositis rosacea dermatitis herpetiformis other neurodegenerative diseases other inflammatory disease and a cancer.

In other embodiments the condition associated with oxidative stress is a cardiovascular disease. In certain aspects of the embodiment the cardiovascular disease is selected from the group consisting of arteriosclerosis coronary heart disease ischemia endothelium dysfunction in particular those dysfunctions affecting blood vessel elasticity restenosis thrombosis angina high blood pressure cardiomyopathy hypertensive heart disease heart failure cor pulmonale cardiac dysrhythmias endocarditis inflammatory cardiomegaly myocarditis myocardial infarction valvular heart disease stroke and cerebrovascular disease aortic valve stenosis congestive heart failure and peripheral arterial disease.

The invention also features a method of increasing hydrogen sulfide levels in a subject having a sulfur nutritional deficiency by administering an effective amount of a composition including 90 99.9 w w elemental alpha sulfur and 0.01 10 w w highly polar components and optionally including one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.

In one aspect the invention also features a method for assessing the treatment of a cardiovascular disease by administering a composition including 90 99.9 w w elemental alpha sulfur and 0.01 10 w w highly polar components and optionally including one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. The method includes the steps of determining the level of hydrogen sulfide in a sample from the subject adjusting the dose of the composition in an amount sufficient to treat the cardiovascular disease wherein an increase in the level of hydrogen sulfide or an improvement in a cardiovascular parameter results in the treatment of the cardiovascular disease. In certain aspects the cardiovascular parameter is selected from the group consisting of end diastolic volume EDV end systolic volume ESV stroke volume ejection fraction heart rate and cardiac output.

By elemental alpha sulfur is meant orthorhombic elemental sulfur having the formula S. Elemental alpha sulfur exists as S cyclooctasulfur molecules but can also include S cycloheptasulfur molecules and S cyclohexasulfur molecules .

By elemental beta sulfur is meant monoclinic elemental sulfur having the formula Sand consisting mainly of cyclooctasulfur molecules.

By highly polar component is meant a compound whose molecules contain at least one ionic bond or one highly polar covalent bond. Highly polar components include e.g. sodium polythionates potassium polythionates ammonium polythionates calcium polythionates sodium thiosulfate potassium thiosulfate ammonium thiosulfate calcium thiosulfate sodium sulfate potassium sulfate ammonium sulfate sodium bisulfite potassium bisulfite ammonium bisulfite calcium bisulfite sodium chloride potassium chloride ammonium chloride calcium chloride sodium acetate sodium palmitate potassium palmitate and or ammonium laurate. Highly polar components also include molecules containing highly polar O H covalent bonds e.g. water alcohols polyols polythionic acids carboxylic acids and or sorbitan monostearate. Highly polar components further include compounds whose molecules contain highly polar N H covalent bonds for example primary amines amino acids primary amides peptides and proteins.

By polythionate is meant an anion or group of the formula S SSO e.g. where n is an integer from 1 to 60 preferably from 1 20 and more preferably 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 .

By zerovalent sulfur is meant a sulfur atom with an oxidation state of zero as calculated according to an agreed upon set of rules well known to a person skilled in the art e.g. each cyclooctasulfur molecule S contains eight zerovalent sulfur atoms each thiosulfate ion SO contains one zerovalent sulfur atom and each polythionate ion contains n zerovalent sulfur atoms. Zerovalent sulfur can be found in sulfane sulfur compounds.

By zerovalent sulfur content is meant the amount of zerovalent sulfur present in a composition containing elemental alpha sulfur and highly polar components such as sodium polythionates potassium polythionates ammonium polythionates calcium polythionates sodium thiosulfate potassium thiosulfate ammonium thiosulfate calcium thiosulfate sodium sulfate potassium sulfate and ammonium sulfate.

By sulfane sulfur is meant a labile highly reactive sulfur atom at a reduced oxidation state with a valence of 0 or 1 covalently bound to another sulfur atom. Sulfane sulfur compounds can include e.g. persulfides polysulfides polythionates polysulfanes thiotaurine thiosulfate and or elemental sulfur. Sulfane sulfur compounds can be formed in the anaerobic cysteine sulfur metabolism with the participation of enzymes such as cystathionase 3 mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase and or rhodanese. The last step in enzymatic HS generating pathways generally involves sulfane sulfur containing species. Compounds containing sulfane sulfur can participate in cell regulation processes through activation or inactivation of enzymes such as e.g. oxidoreductase containing an iron or molybdenum atom e.g. xanthine oxidase aldehyde oxidase and malate dehydrogenase .

By enteral is meant administration that involves any part of the gastrointestinal tract. Enteral administration can include by mouth in the form of tablets capsules or drops by gastric feeding tube duodenal feeding tube or rectally.

By topical is meant administration that is local or systemic particularly epicutaneous inhalational eye drops and or ear drops.

By parenteral is meant administering the composition of the invention by means other than oral intake particularly by injection of a form of liquid into the body. Parenteral administration can include intravenous intra arterial intraosseous infusion intra muscular intracerebral intracerebroventricular and subcutaneous administration.

By cardiovascular disease drug is meant a class of agents or substances that are used to treat diseases that affect the cardiovascular system particularly cardiac disease vascular disease of the brain and kidney and peripheral arterial disease.

By anticancer anti proliferative drug is meant an agent substance and or mixture of substances that reduces prevents and or interferes with the uncontrolled growth of cells its initiation promotion progression and or spread to other organs.

By anti neurodegenerative drug is meant an agent substance and or mixture of substances that restores and or improves neuron function by acting directly on neurons or indirectly on pathways associated with neuronal function e.g. axonal transport pathways protein misfolding pathways protein degradation pathways and programmed cell death pathways .

By dietary supplement is meant an agent substance and or mixture of substances that is a food supplement or nutritional supplement intended to supplement the diet and provide nutrients such as vitamins minerals fiber fatty acids or amino acids that may be missing or may not be consumed in sufficient quantities in a person s diet.

By promote or maintain general health is meant to aid in accomplishing a state of human health that is characterized by homeostatic balance with the stable condition of properties such as temperature pH electrolytes and or metabolites.

By oxidation state is meant a measure of the degree of oxidation of an atom in a molecule of a substance defined as the charge an atom might be imagined to have when electrons are counted according to an agreed upon set of rules well known to a person skilled in the art.

By acid is meant an Arrhenius acid a Bronsted Lowry acid and or a Lewis acid. An Arrhenius acid is a substance that increases the concentration of the hydronium ion when dissolved in water. A Bronsted Lowry acid is a species that donates a proton to a Bronsted Lowry base. A Lewis acid is a species that accepts a pair of electrons from another species.

By conditions associated with oxidative stress is meant a condition characterized by or originated from imbalance between the systemic manifestation of reactive oxygen species and a biological system s ability to readily detoxify the reactive intermediates and or to repair the resulting damage.

By hydrogen sulfide is meant a compound having the formula HS that is produced in small amounts by many cells of the mammalian body and has a number of biological signaling functions e.g. a relaxant of smooth muscle a vasodilator increases response of NMDA receptor facilitates long term potentiation and involvement in memory formation .

By increasing hydrogen sulfide levels is meant increasing in the level of hydrogen sulfide produced in the mammalian body e.g. from cysteine by the enzymes cystathionine beta synthase and cystathionine gamma lyase by at least about 5 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 as compared to a control reference sample. Levels of hydrogen sulfide can be determined using any useful methods known in the art.

By sulfur nutritional deficiency is meant a condition characterized by an imbalance in enzyme activity hormone levels and immune system function due to a lack of sufficient amounts of sulfur in a regular diet. Symptoms of sulfur nutritional deficiency include for example impaired hepatic and renal function fragile nails shedding of hair itchy skin or scalp eczema acne diaper rash migraine headaches flatulence indigestion vomiting diarrhea hemorrhoids impotence painful and irregular menstruation frequent episodes of infections of bacterial or viral origin sore throat toothache nosebleeds measles joint pain hay fever fever bed wetting and or breastfeeding problems.

By improvement in cardiovascular parameter is meant a change in a cardiovascular parameter e.g. end diastolic volume EDV end systolic volume ESV stroke volume ejection fraction heart rate and cardiac output to normal ranges e.g. an end diastolic volume EDV from about 65 240 mL an end systolic volume ESV from about 16 143 mL a stroke volume from about 55 100 mL an ejection fraction from about 55 70 a heart rate from about 60 100 bpm and or cardiac output of about 4.0 8.0 L min .

By treating is meant subjecting a patient to a management regimen for the purpose of combating a disease or disorder and obtaining beneficial or desired results such as clinical results. Beneficial or desired results can include but are not limited to improvement in quality of life alleviation or amelioration of one or more symptoms or conditions diminishment of extent of disease disorder or condition stabilization i.e. not worsening of a state of disease disorder or condition prevention of spread of disease disorder or condition delay or slowing the progress of the disease disorder or condition amelioration or palliation of the disease disorder or condition and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable.

By effective amount of an agent is meant the amount of the agent sufficient to effect beneficial or desired result e.g. treatment of cardiovascular diseases cancers e.g. malignant cell hyperproliferation inflammatory diseases diabetes dyslipidemia neurodegenerative diseases AIDS and other pathological conditions associated with oxidative stress an imbalance in redox homeostasis and or immune dysfunction and as such an amount of the composition sufficient to achieve an increase in in vivo hydrogen sulfide and or sulfane sulfur levels as compared to the level of hydrogen sulfide and or sulfane sulfur without administration of the composition.

By composition is meant a system comprising a substance described herein optionally formulated with an acceptable excipient and manufactured or sold with the approval of a governmental regulatory agency as part of a therapeutic regimen for the treatment of disease in a mammal or to promote and maintain general health. Pharmaceutical compositions can be formulated for example for oral administration in unit dosage form e.g. a tablet capsule caplet gel cap or syrup for topical administration e.g. as a cream gel lotion or ointment for intravenous administration e.g. as a sterile solution or colloidal dispersion free of particulate emboli and in a solvent system suitable for intravenous use or in any other formulation described herein.

By acceptable excipient is meant any ingredient other than the substance described herein for example a vehicle capable of suspending or dissolving the active substance and or substances e.g. petroleum jelly and polyethylene glycol and having the properties of being nontoxic and non inflammatory in a patient. Excipients may include for example antiadherents antioxidants binders coatings compression aids disintegrants dyes colors emollients emulsifiers fillers diluents film formers or coatings flavors fragrances glidants flow enhancers lubricants preservatives printing inks sorbents suspending or dispersing agents colloid stabilizers sweeteners and water. Exemplary excipients include but are not limited to butylated hydroxytoluene BHT calcium carbonate calcium phosphate dibasic calcium stearate croscarmellose crosslinked polyvinyl pyrrolidone citric acid crospovidone ethylcellulose gelatin hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose lactose magnesium stearate maltitol mannitol methylcellulose methyl paraben microcrystalline cellulose polyethylene glycol polyvinyl pyrrolidone povidone pregelatinized starch propyl paraben shellac silicon dioxide sodium carboxymethyl cellulose sodium starch glycolate sorbitol starch corn stearic acid sucrose talc titanium dioxide and xylitol. Excipients may also include diluents e.g. saline and aqueous buffer solutions aqueous carriers and nonaqueous carriers for example water ethanol polyols such as glycerol propylene glycol polyethylene glycol and the like and suitable mixtures thereof vegetable oils such as olive oil and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate.

We have discovered an extraordinarily safe and effective hydrogen sulfide prodrug of high bioavailability. The highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions of the invention contain at least 96 bioactive zerovalent sulfur that readily undergoes bioconversion into hydrogen sulfide.

Other currently used hydrogen sulfide precursors contain no more than 57 bioactive sulfur. Table 2 shows the percentage bioactive sulfur contained in several prior art hydrogen sulfide prodrugs and Table 3 shows the effects of hydrogen sulfide in various cancer pathways. We describe herein the preparation and characterization of the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition and methods of administering the composition to treat and or prevent cardiovascular disease cancers inflammatory disease diabetes dyslipidemia neurodegenerative disease AIDS and other pathological conditions associated with oxidative stress an imbalance in redox homeostasis and or immune dysfunction.

In one embodiment the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions are obtained by Procedure I outlined below to prepare a 2.7 kg lot of a composition comprising highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur. The starting materials are listed in Table 4 and suitable equipment is listed in Table 5.

Add portionwise and under brisk stifling 4.890 kg of NaSOto 20 L of distilled water contained in the 200 L main reaction vessel fitted with the high torque stirrer 7 8 shown in display . The addition is desirably made over 3 5 minutes and an effort should be made to keep the powder from forming lumps. Dissolve 7.090 kg of NaHS.xHO in 15 L of distilled water contained in the 80 L auxiliary reaction vessel fitted with the low torque stirrer. Filter the NaHS solution through 3 pieces of Whatman 1 filter paper under reduced pressure using a Kitasato Buchner assembly. Collect the filtrates in a 19 L vessel. It should be noted that only a very small amount of impurities is usually retained on the filter papers.

Next rinse the 80 L auxiliary reaction vessel and transfer the filtered NaHS solution from the 19 L vessel to the 80 L auxiliary reaction vessel. Add 30 L of distilled water to the 80 L auxiliary reaction vessel that contains the filtered NaHS solution. Pour 1.458 kg of concentrated sulfuric acid 98 into a stirred mixture of 2.25 kg ice and 2.25 kg distilled water contained in a 10 L vessel. The next two steps should take place simultaneously and should last 40 minutes. Pour at once 600 ml of NaSOsolution into the auxiliary reaction vessel which contains the stirred NaHS solution and start adding from an addition funnel the dilute sulfuric acid solution 5.958 kg into the same vessel with good stirring. Stirring should create a vortex that goes all the way down to the propeller. Wearing a full face mask fitted with an acid absorbing cartridge add 2.5 kg of ice to the main reaction vessel containing the NaSOsolution. Start pouring concentrated sulfuric acid 4.95 kg in small portions and under brisk stirring. Alternate acid additions with ice additions so as to prevent the solution from heating up. Measure the temperature of the solutions in both reaction vessels. The temperature of the solution in the 200 L main reaction vessel NaSOplus HSO should be about 0 C. and the solution in the 80 L auxiliary reaction vessel NaHS plus a bit of NaSOplus HSO should be between 30 35 C. Charge 5 kg ice into the 200 L reaction vessel NaSOplus HSO and then run into it the solution contained in the 80 L auxiliary reaction vessel NaHS plus a bit of NaSOplus HSO under brisk stifling 24.5 25 on speed scale shown in display . This operation should take about 10 minutes and stifling should create a vortex that goes all the way down to the propeller. Upon mixing the 2 solutions the reaction mixture should go from colorless to canary yellow fluidity increases there is some frothing and a yellowish precipitate separates. Measure the final temperature of the reaction mixture as well as its pH. The temperature should be between 25 30 C. and the pH should be close to 3. Continue stirring briskly for 90 minutes. Stirring should create a vortex that goes all the way down to the propeller.

Allow the reaction mixture to stand undisturbed during 24 hours at room temperature. At the end of this stage the yellowish precipitate should lie at the bottom of the vessel in the form of a relatively compact mass. Without perturbing the precipitate transfer as much as possible of the liquid phase to a different vessel by decantation or siphoning. Transfer the material remaining in the reaction vessel about 20 L to a 40 L plastic or glass container and stir during 1 hour to obtain a homogeneous slurry. Filter the slurry through a 1 Whatman filter paper using a Buchner Kitasato assembly. Wash the filter cake with 1 L of distilled water or until the filtrate shows no acidity. Washing should be done before the filter cake develops cracks in order to prevent channeling. Immediately after washing keep applying vacuum during 10 more minutes. Over drying will lead to a highly compact filter cake and will bring about great difficulties in subsequent steps. Use of a rubber or plastic filter dam or similar device is recommended. Transfer the relatively dry filter cake to a 10 L plastic container and add 7 L of pure anhydrous ethanol. Stir until all the solid is suspended and keep stifling 1 hour. If the suspension is too thick add more anhydrous ethanol. Filter the suspension through a 1 Whatman filter paper wash the filter cake with 200 ml of anhydrous ethanol place the rubber dam on top and keep applying vacuum for no longer than 10 minutes. Over drying will lead to a highly compact filter cake and will bring about great difficulties in subsequent steps. Transfer the filter cake to large glass or stainless steel trays for room temperature air drying. Allow to dry for about 4 days or until constant weight and absence of ethanol odor. The dry product is a material that consists of easily friable lumps and an impalpable powder. Disaggregate the lumps and sift to make sure that the material goes through a 325 standard sieve.

Procedure I yields a product SG 1002 containing about 99 zerovalent sulfur and about 1 highly polar components e.g. sodium sulfate and traces of sodium polythionates and sodium thio sulfate .

In some embodiments variations of Procedure I may be used to obtain similar materials. Such procedures include but are not limited to the following 

Use sodium sulfide instead of sodium hydrogen sulfide and adjust the amounts of reactants according to rules well known to those skilled in the art such as increasing the amount of acid following the process detailed in Procedure I.

Use sodium sulfite instead of sodium metabisulfite and adjust the amount of reactants according to rules well known to those skilled in the art following the process detailed in Procedure I.

Use sodium sulfide instead of sodium hydrogen sulfide and sodium sulfite instead of sodium metabisulfite and adjust the amount of reactants according to rules well known to those skilled in the art following the process detailed in Procedure I.

Use concentrated hydrochloric acid instead of concentrated sulfuric acid with mole per mole replacement and following the process detailed in Procedure I.

Use concentrated hydrochloric acid instead of concentrated sulfuric acid with mole per mole replacement and following the process detailed in Procedure II.

Use concentrated hydrochloric acid instead of concentrated sulfuric acid with mole per mole replacement and following the process detailed in Procedure III.

Use concentrated hydrochloric acid instead of concentrated sulfuric acid with mole per mole replacement and following the process detailed in Procedure IV.

Use potassium salts instead of sodium salts and adjust the amount of reagents according to rules well known to those skilled in the art and following the process detailed in Procedure I.

In some embodiments the reactants used in the procedure can include any compound comprising sulfur in the minus two oxidation state and another compound comprising sulfur in the plus four oxidation state and optionally an acid and or catalyst s .

In other embodiments vacuum aided filtration may be replaced by pressure aided filtration and or centrifugation. In other embodiments closed reactors may be used a heat exchange cooling system may be substituted for ice addition spray drying may substitute air drying and one and or more steps e.g. washing with alcohol may be omitted. It should be understood that embodiments involving a larger or smaller scale of operation are also within the scope of the present invention.

The standard yield of dry sifted product is 2.7 kg of an impalpable odorless fluffy light yellow microcrystalline powder with the following properties 

The composition obtained by adhering to Procedure I consists of microcrystals rich in zerovalent sulfur its solubility in carbon disulfide is lower than that of alpha sulfur rhombic sulfur and contains measurable amounts of sodium and oxygen. X ray diffraction patterns of the composition are consistent with that of alpha sulfur.

The methods used to obtain the data described herein include the following. The solubility of the composition in carbon disulfide was obtained by adding 6 mL of carbon disulfide to 0.500 g of the final product and determining the weight of the residue. Zerovalent sulfur content was measured by sulfitolysis not correcting for the fact that sulfitolysis converts all sulfur atoms in Sinto thiosulfate but only n 1 sulfur atoms in NaOS SSONa. Sodium content was determined by Galbraith Laboratories USA GLI procedure ME 70 . Particle size distribution was measured using a Partica LA 950 laser diffraction particle size analyzer from Horiba Instruments.

Without being limited by any hypothesis it is likely that the high bioavailability of the above material is associated with the hydrophilic nature of the crystal surfaces which in turn may be related to the presence of highly polar groups such as SONa and or SONa. These groups might be those present in polythionate molecules NaOS S SONa e.g. where n 1 2 or 3 thiosulfates or sulfates. Highly polar groups such as SONa may be associated with molecules of water of hydration and may under some circumstances undergo cationic exchange yielding e.g. SOH groups. Further the hydrophilicity of the surface of this unique microcrystalline material is in stark contrast with the hydrophobic nature of the surface of crystals of pure alpha or beta elemental sulfur. Pure alpha or beta elemental sulfur in contrast is completely soluble in carbon disulfide. Also without being limited by any hypothesis or theory it is likely that the low bioavailability of ordinary alpha sulfur is directly related to the hydrophobic nature of its surface.

In some embodiments the composition can be micro or nanosized comprising particles rich in alpha sulfur but always modified so as to possess hydrophilic surfaces. Similar compositions also within the scope of the present invention can be obtained by any chemical electrochemical mechanochemical sonochemical photochemical microwave assisted biochemical and or biotechnological processes known in the art. Compositions comprising elemental beta sulfur and surface modifying polar groups further constitute embodiments of the present invention. As established elemental alpha sulfur is converted into beta sulfur when heated and vice versa.

Determination of Zerovalent Sulfur Content in the Highly Bioavailable Zerovalent Sulfur Rich Compositions

In one aspect the zerovalent sulfur content of the composition of the invention can be determined using the method described herein to measure the percentage w w of zerovalent sulfur in alpha sulfur sodium thiosulfate and sodium polythionates. The sulfitolysis method for determining zerovalent sulfur content described herein does not correct for the fact that sulfitolysis of polythionate molecules stops at the trithionate as shown in equation ii therefore one of the zerovalent sulfur atoms present in each polythionate molecule escapes sulfitolysis and is not converted into thiosulfate equation ii . However since the sodium content of the composition disclosed herein is small the error introduced in the calculation of zerovalent sulfur is correspondingly small. A detailed analysis of sulfitolysis is described in Koh et al. 6 3 14 1990.

The sulfitolysis reactions equation i and ii proceed as in the volumetric method for quantitative determination of elemental sulfur in aromatic hydrocarbons reported by Morris et al. 20 1037 1039 1948. The sulfitolysis method described herein is improved compared to the method of Morris et al. in several ways including the use of n hexadecyl pyridinium chloride as a sulfitolysis catalyst. S 8SO 8SO Equation i OS SSO 1 SO 1 SO OS S SO Equation ii 

To determine the zerovalent sulfur content weigh 0.160 g 10 mg of the composition into a 250 mL Erlenmeyer flask. Add to the flask 100 mL of 15 NaSOsolution. Place the flask in a water bath and apply heat until the water boils. Then add 0.5 mL of 1 hexadecylpiridinium chloride monohydrate solution and continue heating until the solid disappears completely. Allow the contents in the flask to cool down to room temperature and place a magnetic stifling bar inside. While stirring add 15 mL formaldehyde solution 25 mL 6N solution 10 mL of 10 KI solution and 1 mL of 0.5 soluble starch indicating solution. The resulting solution should be colorless. Titrate the contents in the flask with 0.2N KIOsolution using a 25 mL burette. As the titration starts the contents of the flask become amber colored but the color disappears quickly. As the equivalence point is approached be very careful not to overstep. The final point is reached when a drop of titrating solution produces no color change. Titration reaction IO 5I 6H 6SO 6I 3SO 3HO Equation iii zerovalent sulfur mL 32.07 100 1000 sample weight g Formula iv susceptible of undergoing sulfitolysis Conditions and Disorders

The highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions described herein can be used to treat a cardiovascular disease hyperproliferative diseases e.g. cancer an inflammatory disease diabetes dyslipidemia a neurodegenerative disease AIDS and other pathological conditions associated with oxidative stress an imbalance in redox homeostasis and or immune dysfunction.

In one aspect compositions of the invention are administered to a subject already suffering from a cardiovascular disease an inflammatory disease a neurodegenerative disease AIDS and a pathological condition associated with oxidative stress and or an imbalance in redox homeostasis or cancer. In another aspect compositions of the invention may also be administered to a subject at risk for developing a cardiovascular disease hyperproliferative diseases e.g. cancer an inflammatory disease diabetes dyslipidemia a neurodegenerative disease AIDS and other pathological condition associated with oxidative stress an imbalance in redox homeostasis and or immune dysfunction.

The compositions of the invention are also useful in treating cardiovascular diseases. As used herein cardiovascular diseases included but are not limited to arteriosclerosis coronary heart disease ischemia endothelium dysfunction in particular those dysfunctions affecting blood vessel elasticity restenosis thrombosis angina high blood pressure cardiomyopathy hypertensive heart disease heart failure cor pulmonale cardiac dysrhythmias endocarditis inflammatory cardiomegaly myocarditis myocardial infarction valvular heart disease stroke and cerebrovascular disease aortic valve stenosis congestive heart failure and peripheral arterial disease. In one aspect the invention includes methods of administering the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions for chronic treatment. In another aspect the invention also includes methods of administering the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions for acute treatment.

In preferred embodiments the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions of the invention will restore and or improve cardiovascular parameters to normal ranges in a subject diagnosed with or at risk of a cardiovascular disease. Normal ranges of cardiovascular parameters include but are not limited to an end diastolic volume EDV from about 65 240 mL an end systolic volume ESV from about 16 143 mL a stroke volume from about 55 100 mL an ejection fraction from about 55 70 a heart rate from about 60 100 bpm and or cardiac output of about 4.0 8.0 L min.

Highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions of the invention may also be used to treat inflammatory diseases. Examples of inflammatory diseases include but are not limited to acne vulgaris asthma autoimmune diseases e.g. acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ADEM Addison s disease agammaglbulinemia alopecia greata amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ankylosing spondylitis antiphospholipid syndrome antisynthetase syndrome atopic allergy atopic dermatitis autoimmune aplastic anemia autoimmune cardiomyopathy autoimmune enteropathy autoimmunehemolytic anemia autoimmune hepatitis autoimmune inner ear disease autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome autoimmune peripheral neuropathy autoimmune pancreatitis autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome autoimmune progesterone dermatitis autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura autoimmune urticaria autoimmune uveitis Balo concentric sclerosis Behcet s disease Berger s disease Bickerstaff s encephalitis Blau syndrome bullous pemphigoid Castleman s disease celiac disease Chagas disease chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Churg Strauss syndrome cicatricial pemphigoid Cogan syndrome cold agglutinin disease complement component 2 deficiency contact dermatitis cranial arteritis CREST syndrome Crohn s disease Cushing s syndrome cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis Dego s disease Dercum s disease dermatitis herpetiformis dermatomyositis diabetes mellitus type 1 diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis Dressler s syndrome drug induced lupus discoid lupus erythematosus eczema endometriosis enthesitis related arthritis eosinophilic fasciitis eosinophilic gastroenteritis epidermolysis bullosa acquisita erythema nodosum erythroblastosis fetalis essential mixed cryoglobulinemia Evan s syndrome fibrodysplasia ossificans progressive fibrosing alveolitis gastritis gastrointestinal pemphigoid giant cell arteritis glomerulonephritis Goodpasture s syndrome Grave s disease Guillain Barre syndrome Hashimoto s encephalopathy Hashimoto s thyroiditis Henoch Schonlein purpura herpes gestationis hidradenitis suppurativa Hughes Stovin syndrome hypogammaglobulinemia idiopathic inflammatory demyelinating diseases idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura IgA nephropathy inclusion body myositis chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy interstitial cystitis juvenile idiopathic arthritis Kawasaki s disease Lambert Eaton myasthenic syndrome leukocytoclastic vasculitis lichen planus lichen sclerosus linear IgA disease lupus erythematosus Majeed syndrome Meniere s disease microscopic polyangiitis mixed connective tissue disease morphea Mucha Habermann disease myasthenia gravis myositis narcolepsy neuromyelitis optica neuromyotonia ocular cicatricial pemphigoid opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome Ord s thyroiditis palindromic rheumatism PANDAS paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria Parry Romberg syndrome Parsonage Turner syndrome pars planitis pemphigus vulgaris pernicious anaemia perivenous encephalomyelitis POEMS syndrome polyarteritis nodosa polymyalgia rheumatic polymyositis primary biliary cirrhosis primary sclerosing cholangitis progressive inflammatory neuropathy psoriatic arthritis pyoderma gangrenosum pure red cell aplasia Rasmussen s encephalitis raynaud phenomenon relapsing polychondritis Reiter s syndrome restless leg syndrome retroperitoneal fibrosis rheumatic fever Schnitzler syndrome scleritis scleroderma serum sickness Sjogren s syndrome spondyloarthropathy stiff person syndrome subacute bacterial endocarditis Susac s syndrome Sweet s syndrome sympathetic ophthalmia Takayasu s arteritis temporal arteritis thrombocytopenia Tolosa Hunt syndrome transverse myelitis ulcerative colitis undifferentiated connective tissue disease undifferentiated spondyloarthropathy vitiligo and Wegener s granulomatosis celiac disease chronic prostatitis glomerulonephritis hypersensitivities inflammatory bowel diseases pelvic inflammatory disease reperfusion injury rheumatoid arthritis sarcoidosis transplant rejection vasculitis interstitial cystitis and osteoarthritis.

Highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions of the invention may also be used to treat neurodegenerative diseases. Neurodegenerative diseases are any diseases that are characterized by the progressive loss of structure or function of neurons including death of neurons. Neurodegenerative diseases may be caused by genetic mutations e.g. CAG nucleotide triplet mutation protein misfolding e.g. aggregation of alpha synuclein hyperphosphorylated tau protein and aggregation of beta amyloid misregulation in protein degradation pathways e.g. ubiquitin proteasome pathway and autophagy lysosome pathways membrane damage mitochondrial dysfunction defects in axonal transport and misregulation of programmed cell death pathways e.g. apoptosis autophagic and cytoplasmic . Examples of neurodegenerative diseases include but are not limited to Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease Huntington s disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS Creutzfeldt Jakob disease primary progressive aphasia progressive supranuclear palsy spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 frontotemporal dementia dementia with Lewy bodies corticobasal degeneration prion disorders multiple system atrophy hereditary spastic paraparesis Friedreich s ataxia and amyloidoses.

Other Pathological Conditions Associated with Oxidative Stress and or an Imbalance in Redox Homeostasis

Highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions of the invention may be useful in treating other conditions associated with oxidative stress including but not limited to autism schizophrenia bipolar disorder fragile X syndrome sickle cell disease chronic fatigue syndrome osteoarthritis cataract macular degeneration toxic hepatitis viral hepatitis cirrhosis chronic hepatitis oxidative stress from dialysis renal toxicity kidney failure ulcerative colitis bacterial infection viral infections such as HIV and AIDS herpes ear infection upper respiratory tract diseases hypertension balding and hair loss over training syndrome related to athletic performance eczema scleroderma atopic dermatitis polymyositis and dermatitis herpetiformis.

In preferred embodiments the compositions of the invention can be formulated for topical administration and or enteral administration to treat conditions such as psoriasis athlete s foot and or rosacea. In some embodiments the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions of the invention may be useful in healing wounds by influencing the stages of wound healing including but not limited to hemostasis inflammatory proliferative and remodeling. In another embodiment the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions of the invention also enhance athletic performance by increasing one or more of the factors of endurance energy strength visual acuity and or coordination.

In another preferred embodiment the compositions of the invention can be formulated for enteral administration to treat male infertility. Oxidative stress plays a major role in the etiology of sperm dysfunction via induction of peroxidative damage to the plasma membrane. Furthermore oxidative stress affects the integrity of the sperm nuclear and mitochondrial genomes leading to DNA strand breaks aberrant recombination and or defective packing as well as chromatin cross linking. The observation of correlations between reactive oxygen species ROS generation by washed human sperm suspensions and their fertilizing capacity is consistent with the clinical significance of oxidative damage to human spermatozoa this significance is bolstered by the demonstration of loss of functional competence and high rates of DNA damage of human spermatozoa directly or indirectly exposed to hydrogen peroxide. When the source of ROS is intracellular many of the classical antioxidants that are effective against extracellular oxidative stress e.g. NAC and hypotaurine prove useless.

The high susceptibility toward irreversible oxidative damage of mammalian sperm cells may be attributed to i the particularly high content of polyunsaturated fatty acids plasmalogens and sphingomyelins of their membranes ii the lack of adequate repair mechanisms for oxidative damage derived from a dearth of cytosolic antioxidant enzymes associated with the loss of most of their cytoplasm upon spermiation iii the fact that mature post epididymal sperm cells possess highly condensed nuclear chromatin due to the replacement of histones by protamine with increased disulfide bond formation this compactness contributes to silencing the paternal chromosomes which are unable to engage in transcriptional activation by ROS iv the fact that sperm cells are particularly rich in highly active mitochondria because they need a constant supply of energy to support their motility. Spermatozoa were the first cells found to generate significant levels of ROS and these characteristics increase the probability of mitochondrial membrane damage by leaked ROS v the fact that native cysteine rich secretory proteins CRISPs contain unusually high numbers of thiolic unoxidized cysteine residues which renders them especially sensitive to inactivation by oxidants.

HS may be used by cells to synthesize L cysteine which can then serve as a building block in protein synthesis as described in Predmore et al. 17 119 140 2012. Sulfur deficient diets however are common and may lead to cysteine deficiency especially in males and consequently to deficits in the biosynthesis of important cysteine rich proteins such as CRISPs. The CRISPs are found only in vertebrates within the male reproductive tract. CRISPs have been implicated in many aspects of spermatogenesis as well as in the actual process of fertilization as reported in Koppers et al. 13 111 117 2011 and down regulation of CRISP 2 mRNA by a factor of 4.3 in asthenospermic patients was recently reported in Jing et al. 17 203 207 2011.

Srilatha et al. 4 1304 1311 2007 have described some pioneering studies that provide evidence for the endogenous formation of hydrogen sulfide and its proerectile relaxant effect on the corpus cavernosum of mammals as well as on the effects of hydrogen sulfide in female sexual function. The first set of results was corroborated by an international team that included Louis J. Ignarro who won the Nobel Prize in 1998 for his work on demonstrating the signaling properties of nitric oxide. There is also evidence that oxidative stress is implicated in erectile dysfunction in diabetic rodents as described in Bivalacqua et al. 2 187 197 2005 and interventions based on administration of tetrahydrobiopterin and up regulation of antioxidant enzymes may be useful as described in Deng et al. 610 213 227 2010 and Minhas et al. 3 889 897 2002. Moreover recent work discusses the effects of endogenous and exogenous HS on the physiological control of penile tone and the possibility of developing new therapies for erectile dysfunction ED that target this pathway.

Sparatore et al. 4 109 121 2011 developed an HS donating derivative of sildenafil ACS6 with possible clinical indications in ED benign prostatic hypertrophy and low urinary tract symptoms. The HS released by ACS6 inhibits both phosphodiesterase type 5 PDE5 and NADPH oxidase NOX expression activity hence this mechanism may constitute the basis of a new and effective approach to the treatment of patients suffering from ED benign prostatic hypertrophy and lower urinary tract symptoms. In fact studies performed by Shukla et al. 103 1522 1529 2009 showed that ACS6 and sildenafil citrate relaxed cavernosal smooth muscle equipotently and ACS6 inhibited superoxide formation and expression of p47 a subunit of NOX more than sildenafil citrate. It was concluded that ACS6 not only promotes erection but also affords effective protection from oxidative stress through up regulation of glutathione GSH synthesis.

Furthermore in an investigation of the effect of NaHS on pregnant rat uterine contractility in vitro Sidhu et al. 88 198 203 2001 found that this hydrogen donor produced significant dose dependent decreases in uterine spontaneous contractility.

Showell et al. 1 CD007411 2011 assessed the effects of oral antioxidants on men with documented sperm DNA damage and or with impaired semen parameters on the basis of clinical trials wherein the participants were randomly assigned to antioxidant versus placebo an alternative antioxidant or no treatment. The outcomes considered were 1 life birth rate per couple randomized 2 pregnancy rate per couple 3 miscarriage rate per couple or spontaneous abortion 4 stillbirth rate per couple 5 level of sperm DNA damage after treatment 6 sperm concentration 7 sperm motility and 7 adverse effects. The 44 trials analyzed in this review involved 2876 couples carried out over an average duration of treatment of 4.1 months and included the following antioxidants vitamin B vitamin C vitamin E selenium magnesium zinc zinc plus vitamin E zinc plus vitamin E plus vitamin C combined antioxidants plus minerals e.g. vitamin C vitamin E zinc selenium folic acid lycopene and garlic oil L acetylcarnitine L carnitine L acetyl carnitine plus L carnitine pentoxifylline ethyl cysteine N acetylcysteine and docosahexenoic acid. The study concluded that antioxidant supplementation in sub fertile males may improve the outcomes of live birth and pregnancy rate for sub fertile couples undergoing treatment ART cycles . Further head to head comparisons are necessary to identify the superiority of one antioxidant over another. These results indicate that there is currently only limited scientifically acceptable evidence that antioxidant supplementation improves outcomes for sub fertile couples or the available forms of treatment have mostly produced only marginally satisfactory responses even in the best of proper trials and that many drugs are being used without any rationale. According to Cavallini et al 8 143 157 2006 no drug can be defined as unquestionably effective for the treatment of male idiopathic oligoasthenoteratozoospermia.

The highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition of the invention was used in a clinical trial conducted by Mexican researchers see Example 8 and the results were highly encouraging for several reasons including a treatment duration of only 2.5 months versus an average of 4.1 months for all trials described in Showell et al. 1 CD007411 2011 and a single component formulation instead of an un optimized miscellaneous mixture of 7 10 or more presumably active ingredients.

Oxidative stress is associated with an increase in the production of oxidizing species e.g. superoxide peroxides free radicals and or a significant decrease in effectiveness and or levels of antioxidant defenses such as glutathione. The highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions of the invention when administered will desirably act to restore the cysteine and glutathione levels thus restoring the redox homeostasis in the body.

Compositions of the invention may also be useful for treating diabetes and its complications. Diabetes can be any metabolic disease in which a person has high blood sugar either because the body does not produce enough insulin or because cells do not respond to the insulin that is produced. Non limiting examples of diabetes includes type 1 diabetes mellitus type 2 diabetes mellitus gestational diabetes congenital diabetes cystic fibrosis related diabetes steroid diabetes latent autoimmune diabetes of adults and monogenic diabetes. Complications associated with diabetes include but are not limited to hypoglycemia diabetic ketoacidosis nonketotic hyperosmolar coma cardiovascular disease chronic renal failure diabetic nephropathy diabetic neuropathy diabetes related foot problems e.g. diabetic foot ulcers and diabetic retinopathy.

Other conditions that may be treated using highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions of the invention include cancers. Cancers are generally characterized by unregulated cell growth formation of malignant tumors and invasion to nearby parts of the body. Cancers may also spread to more distant parts of the body through the lymphatic system or bloodstream. Cancers may be a result of gene damage due to tobacco use certain infections radiation lack of physical activity obesity and or environmental pollutants. Cancers may also be a result of existing genetic faults within cells to cause diseases due to genetic heredity. Screenings may be used to detect cancers before any noticeable symptoms appear and treatment may be given to those who are at higher risks of developing cancers e.g. people with a family history of cancers . Examples of screening techniques for cancer include but are not limited to physical examination blood or urine tests medical imaging and or genetic testing. Non limiting examples of cancers include bladder cancer breast cancer colon and rectal cancer endometrial cancer kidney or renal cell cancer leukemia lung cancer melanoma Non Hodgkin lymphoma pancreatic cancer prostate cancer ovarian cancer stomach cancer wasting disease and thyroid cancer.

The zerovalent sulfur rich composition of the invention are expected to be effective in treating ischemia reperfusion injury from reconstructive and transplantation procedures. Water dispersions of fine particles of the zerovalent sulfur rich composition can be used to treat flaps of tissue from plastic or reconstructive surgery and solid organs from transplants in order to prevent minimize ischemia reperfusion injury and to protect the mitochondria during the operative procedures. Exemplary tissues and organs to be treated using the composition of the invention have active metabolism and increased mitochondrial function and are susceptible to reperfusion injury after brief periods of ischemia and include but are not limited to skeletal muscle the heart the liver large intestine small intestine the brain the skin the limbs e.g. arms legs feet hands .

The present invention also relates to pharmaceutical compositions that contain the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions or a combination of one of the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions described herein and a second therapeutic agent e.g. an antiplatelet drug a blocker an angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker ARB a statin fibrates biguanides blood pressure lowering agents cytokines cholesterol lowering agents erectile dysfunction drugs anti inflammatory drugs anti thrombosis drugs anticancer drugs anti diabetic drugs and or dietary supplements .

A composition of the present invention can be administered by a variety of methods known in the art. As will be appreciated by the skilled artisan the route and or mode of administration will vary depending upon the desired results. The pharmaceutical compositions can be formulated for parenteral intranasal topical oral or local administration such as by a transdermal means for prophylactic and or therapeutic treatment. The pharmaceutical compositions can be administered parenterally e.g. by intravenous intramuscular or subcutaneous injection or by oral ingestion or by topical application or intraarticular injection at areas affected by the vascular or cancer condition. Additional routes of administration include intravascular intra arterial intratumor intraperitoneal intraventricular intraepidural as well as nasal ophthalmic intrascleral intraorbital rectal topical or aerosol inhalation administration. Sustained release administration is also specifically included in the invention by such means as depot injections or erodible implants or components. Thus the invention provides compositions for parenteral administration that comprise the above mentioned agents dissolved colloidally dispersed or suspended in an acceptable carrier preferably an aqueous carrier e.g. water buffered water saline PBS and the like. The compositions may contain pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary substances as required to approximate physiological conditions such as pH adjusting and buffering agents tonicity adjusting agents wetting agents detergents and the like.

The therapeutic composition may be in the form of a solution colloidal dispersion a suspension an emulsion an infusion device or a delivery device for implantation or it may be presented as a dry powder to be used as such or to be reconstituted with water or another suitable vehicle before use. The composition can be in the form of a tablet capsule e.g. hard gelatin capsule and soft gelatin capsule liquid or sustained release tablet for oral administration or a liquid for intravenous intrathecal subcutaneous or parenteral administration or a cream or ointment for topical administration or a polymer or other sustained release vehicle for local administration.

Methods well known in the art for making formulations are found for example in Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy 20th ed. ed. A. R. Gennaro A R. 2000 Lippincott Williams Wilkins Philadelphia Pa. . Formulations for parenteral administration may for example contain excipients sterile water saline polyalkylene glycols such as polyethylene glycol oils of vegetable origin or hydrogenated napthalenes. Biocompatible biodegradable lactide polymer lactide glycolide copolymer or polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene copolymers may be used to control the release of the substances. Nanoparticulate formulations e.g. biodegradable nanoparticles solid lipid nanoparticles liposomes may be used to control the biodistribution of the substances. Other potentially useful delivery systems include ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer particles osmotic pumps intrathecal pumps implantable infusion systems and liposomes. The concentration of the substance in the formulation varies depending upon a number of factors including the dosage of the drug to be administered and the route of administration.

To administer a composition of the invention by certain routes of administration it may be necessary to coat the composition with or co administer the composition with a material to prevent its inactivation. For example the composition may be administered to a subject in an appropriate carrier for example liposomes or a diluent. Pharmaceutically acceptable diluents include saline and aqueous buffer solutions. Liposomes include water in oil in water CGF emulsions as well as conventional liposomes Strejan et al. 7 27 41 1984 . Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable colloidal solutions or dispersion. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances is known in the art and is included in the invention except where any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active substance. Supplementary active substances can also be incorporated into the compositions.

Therapeutic compositions typically must be sterile and stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage. The composition can be formulated as a suspension microemulsion liposome or other ordered structure suitable to high drug concentration. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol petroleum jelly e.g. Vaseline polyol e.g. glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol and the like and suitable mixtures thereof formulated at different percentages e.g. 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 or 50 by weight in a dispersion medium described herein . The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. In many cases it will be preferable to include isotonic agents for example sugars polyalcohols such as mannitol sorbitol or sodium chloride in the composition. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by including in the composition an agent that delays absorption for example monostearate salts and gelatin. Colloidal dispersions may be stabilized through addition of agents well known in the art.

The compositions of the invention may be sterilized by conventional sterilization techniques or may be sterile filtered. The resulting aqueous dispersions may be packaged for use as is or lyophilized the lyophilized preparation being combined with a sterile aqueous carrier prior to administration. The pH of the preparations typically will be between 3 and 11 more preferably between 5 and 9 or between 6 and 8 and most preferably between 7 and 8 such as 7 to 7.5. The resulting compositions in solid or semisolid form may be packaged in multiple single dose units each containing a fixed amount of the composition such as in a sealed package of tablets or capsules. The composition in solid form can also be packaged in a container for a flexible quantity such as in a squeezable tube designed for a topically applicable cream or ointment.

Preferred formulations of the invention include but are not limited to preparation of hard gelatin capsules containing 100 400 mg of a highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition of the invention preparation of a suspension of about 5 20 5.5 6 6.5 7 8 10 15 17 or 19 of highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition of the invention and petroleum jelly e.g. Vaseline or polyethylene glycol or a colloidal dispersion of about 5 20 5.5 6 6.5 7 8 10 15 17 or 19 of highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition of the invention in water or oil.

Sterile injectable colloidal suspensions can be prepared by incorporating the active compound in the required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients enumerated above as required optionally followed by sterilization microfiltration. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle that contains a basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. Dosage regimens are adjusted to provide the optimum desired response e.g. a therapeutic or prophylactic response . For example a single bolus may be administered several divided doses may be administered over time or the dose may be proportionally reduced or increased as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic or prophylactic situation. For example the compositions of the invention may be administered once or twice weekly by subcutaneous injection or once or twice monthly by subcutaneous injection.

It is especially advantageous to formulate parenteral compositions in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the subjects to be treated each unit contains a predetermined quantity of active compound calculated to produce the desired therapeutic or prophylactic effect optionally in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier. The specifications for the dosage unit forms of the invention are dictated by and directly dependent on a the unique characteristics of the active substance and the particular therapeutic or prophylactic effect to be achieved and b the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such an active substance for the treatment of sensitivity in individuals.

When the substances of the present invention are administered as pharmaceuticals to humans and animals they can be given alone or as a pharmaceutical composition containing for example 1 to 100 more preferably 10 to 100 such as 90 to 100 of active ingredient optionally in combination with one more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or excipients.

The compositions containing an effective amount can be administered for prophylactic or therapeutic treatments. In prophylactic applications compositions can be administered to a patient with a clinically determined predisposition or increased susceptibility to development of cardiovascular diseases hyperproliferative diseases e.g. cancer inflammatory diseases diabetes dyslipidemia neurodegenerative diseases AIDS and other pathological conditions associated with oxidative stress an imbalance in redox homeostasis and or immune dysfunction. Compositions of the invention can be administered to the patient e.g. a human in an amount sufficient to delay reduce or preferably prevent the onset of the clinical disease. In therapeutic applications compositions are administered to a patient e.g. a human already suffering from a cardiovascular disease hyperproliferative diseases e.g. cancer an inflammatory disease diabetes dyslipidemia a neurodegenerative disease AIDS and other pathological conditions associated with oxidative stress an imbalance in redox homeostasis and or immune dysfunction in an amount sufficient to cure or at least partially arrest the symptoms of the condition and its complications. An amount adequate to accomplish this purpose is defined as a therapeutically effective dose an amount of a compound sufficient to substantially improve some symptom associated with a disease or a medical condition. For example in the treatment of a cardiovascular disease hyperproliferative diseases e.g. cancer an inflammatory disease diabetes dyslipidemia a neurodegenerative disease AIDS and other pathological conditions associated with oxidative stress an imbalance in redox homeostasis and or immune dysfunction an agent or substance which decreases prevents delays suppresses or arrests any symptom of the disease or condition would be therapeutically effective. A therapeutically effective amount of an agent or substance is not required to cure a disease or condition but will provide a treatment for a disease or condition such that the onset of the disease or condition is delayed hindered or prevented or the disease or condition symptoms are ameliorated or the term of the disease or condition is changed or for example is less severe or recovery is accelerated in an individual.

The compositions and formulations of the present invention may be used in combination with either conventional methods of treatment or therapy or may be used separately from conventional methods of treatment or therapy. When the substances and formulations of this invention are administered in combination therapies with other agents they may be administered sequentially or concurrently to an individual. Alternatively pharmaceutical compositions according to the present invention include a combination of a substance or formulation of the present invention optionally in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient as described herein and another therapeutic or prophylactic agent known in the art.

The formulated agents can be packaged together as a kit. Non limiting examples include kits that contain e.g. two pills a pill and a powder a suppository and a liquid in a vial two topical creams etc. The kit can include optional components that aid in the administration of the unit dose to patients such as vials for reconstituting powder forms syringes for injection customized IV delivery systems inhalers etc. Additionally the unit dose kit can contain instructions for preparation and administration of the compositions. The kit may be manufactured as a single use unit dose for one patient multiple uses for a particular patient at a constant dose or in which the individual compounds may vary in potency as therapy progresses or the kit may contain multiple doses suitable for administration to multiple patients bulk packaging . The kit components may be assembled in cartons blister packs bottles tubes and the like.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are formulated into pharmaceutically acceptable dosage forms by conventional methods known to those of skill in the art. Actual dosage levels of the active ingredients in the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be varied so as to obtain an amount of the active ingredient which is effective to achieve the desired therapeutic response for a particular patient composition and mode of administration without being toxic to the patient. The selected dosage level will depend upon a variety of pharmacokinetic factors including the activity of the particular compositions of the present invention employed the route of administration the time of administration the rate of absorption of the particular agent being employed the duration of the treatment other drugs substances and or materials used in combination with the particular compositions employed the age sex weight condition general health and prior medical history of the patient being treated and like factors well known in the medical arts. A physician or veterinarian having ordinary skill in the art can readily determine and prescribe the effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition required. For example the physician or veterinarian can start doses of the substances of the invention employed in the pharmaceutical composition at levels lower than that required in order to achieve the desired therapeutic effect and gradually increase the dosage until the desired effect is achieved. In general a suitable daily dose of a composition of the invention will be that amount of the substance which is the lowest dose effective to produce a therapeutic effect. Such an effective dose will generally depend upon the factors described above. Preferably the effective daily dose of a therapeutic composition may be administered as two three four five six or more sub doses administered separately at appropriate intervals throughout the day optionally in unit dosage forms.

Preferred therapeutic dosage levels are between about 800 mg to about 1600 mg e.g. 800 850 900 1000 1050 1100 1200 1300 1400 1450 1500 1550 and 1600 mg of active zerovalent sulfur rich composition per day administered orally to adults of average weight afflicted with most of the symptoms syndromes and pathological conditions described herein Preferred prophylactic dosage levels are between about 100 mg to about 1200 mg e.g. 110 140 200 250 300 350 400 460 700 750 800 900 1000 1100 and 1150 mg . In cancer AIDS and some chronic or refractory pathologies the preferred oral dosage levels are 2400 mg per day or higher e.g. 2450 2500 3000 3500 4000 8000 mg 1 g for an adult of average weight. For children afflicted with cancer the dose may be titrated e.g. the dose may be escalated gradually until signs of gastrointestinal toxicity appear such as diarrhea or nausea . In preferred embodiments the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions of the invention are extremely safe for oral administration and most patients can tolerate higher dosages as treatment progresses.

In other embodiments the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions of the invention are safe for topical administration. Acceptable dosage forms for topical administration can be formulated as creams lotions pastes gels and or ointments containing the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions.

Final dosage forms suitable for administration to human subjects may comprise one of the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions as pharmacologically active agent or further comprise other active agents such as alpha lipoic acid carnitine carnitine tartrate carnitine fumarate coenzyme Q10 selenium alpha ketoglutaric acid potassium alpha ketoglutarate diethyl alpha ketoglutarate oxaloacetic acid sodium oxaloacetate diethyl oxaloacetate 2 oxo 3 ethoxycarbonyl pentanodioc acid diethyl ester L cystine paracetamol a sulfa drug an NSAID a corticosteroid taurine a vitamin a prebiotic another anticancer drug including but not limited to another mitocan e.g. a drug targeting the mitochondrial electron transport chain alkylating agents e.g. procarbazine dacarbazine altretamine cisplatin methotrexate purine antagonists e.g. mercaptopurine thioguanine cladribine pentostatin pyrimidine antagonists e.g. fluorouracil cytarabine azacitidine plant alkaloids e.g. vinblastine etoposide topotecan hormonal agents e.g. tamoxifen flutamide antibiotics e.g. doxorubicin daunorubicin mitomycin bleomycin and mitocans e.g. sodium dichloroacetate and 3 bromopyruvic acid .

The present invention also relates to highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions as medical food for daily intake and for maintaining and promoting general health. Evidence indicates that daily ingestion by an adult of average weight of about 800 mg of the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition described herein during extended periods is safe and beneficial to health because it brings about a marked reduction in the frequency and severity of digestive and respiratory infections e.g. of viral and bacterial origin and allergic episodes. Daily intake of the composition of the invention is also associated with a greatly reduced probability of being afflicted by cancer AIDS a neurodegenerative condition stroke diabetes and its complications cardiovascular disease and confers protection from cardiovascular cerebrovascular gastric and hepatic damage caused by xenobiotics including drugs such as paracetamol corticosteroids NSAIDs and antiretrovirals toxins and poisons e.g. cyanide thallium methanol . Daily intake of the composition of the invention can also result in faster growth of hair and nails firmer skin a prebiotic like effect and a sense of general wellness.

In one aspect highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions of the invention are used as a paravitamin to provide a supplemental source of cysteine and its derivatives. Cysteine and its derivatives e.g. glutathione taurine taurine conjugates with bile acids hydrogen sulfide and sulfate ions play a role similar to that of vitamins. Like antioxidative vitamins cysteine and its derivatives play a role in the oxidant antioxidant balance and indirectly in the regulation of metabolic processes. Cysteine supplementation on top of the normal diet can have various beneficial effects for example cysteine supplementation can lead to an increase in muscle function immune function plasma albumin concentration and a decrease in TNF concentration. Supplementation can also restore the body s reservoirs of cysteine and glutathione levels which are driving forces behind multiple ageing related processes.

In another aspect the paravitamins are medical foods providing a minimum amount of calories and maximum amount of a bioavailable form of sulfur intended for humans not receiving enough sulfur in their diets. Studies from a preliminary clinical trial showed that in 120 men and women participants given the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition as a paravitamin most participants noticed faster growth of hair and nails. Furthermore evidence obtained from in vivo experiments showed that in mammals hydrogen sulfide sulfane sulfur and glutathione levels are increased in blood and tissues upon administration of the highly bioavailable sulfur rich compositions as paravitamins.

In preferred embodiments the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition is rapidly and efficiently converted into hydrogen sulfide in the body which in turn is largely transformed into L cysteine. L cysteine may be used as a building block in the synthesis of peptides enzymes and other proteins and small sulfur containing biomolecules e.g. keratin which constitutes 14 of hair and nails e.g. glutathione a tripeptide needed for regulating and potentiating immune function and for cellular protection from oxidants electrophiles e.g. taurine which is essential for cardiovascular function development and function of skeletal muscle the retina the central nervous system it is a major constituent of bile has many fundamental biological roles such as conjugation of bile acids antioxidant osmoregulation membrane stabilization and modulation of calcium signaling e.g. sulfate which is necessary for the synthesis of cartilage and for detoxification of many drugs including but not limited to corticosteroids and acetaminophen .

In another embodiment the zerovalent sulfur rich composition is transformed and stored as sulfane sulfur. Sulfane sulfur is conveniently used by the body as highly versatile precursor of hydrogen sulfide which readily releases hydrogen sulfide whenever and wherever this species is needed to activate protective genes block inflammation and protect cells from free radical damage.

In yet another preferred embodiment the maximum human life span may be increased beyond the previous limit by providing compositions of the invention as paravitamins glutathione levels will be restored to a normal level in the cells of the immune system thereby normalizing the function of the immune system and restoring health and well being.

The present invention also relates to highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions as antidotes for various poisons and drug overdose. The composition of the invention can be used as an antidote for cyanide poisoning. Cyanide poisoning can occur from inhalation and or ingestion of poisonous cyanide compounds e.g. hydrogen cyanide gas potassium cyanide and sodium cyanide constant exposure to pesticides and insecticides containing poisonous cyanide compounds tobacco smoke inhalation of smoke from building fires and foods including almonds apricot kernel cassava yucca manioc and apple seeds. Signs of cyanide poisoning can include but are not limited to permanent paralysis nervous lesions hypothyroidism miscarriages weakness mild liver damage and mild kidney damage.

The composition of the invention can be used as an antidote for drug overdoses including but not limited to acetaminophen overdose and sulfa drug overdose e.g. sulfamethoxazole fulfisomidine dichlorophenamide acetazolamide bumetanide chlorthalidone clopamide furosemide hydrochlorothiazide mefruside metolazone xipamide acetazolamide ethoxzolamide sultiame zonisamide mafenide sumatriptan fulfasalazine tipranavir and probenecid .

Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can be administered in combination therapy i.e. combined with other agents e.g. an antiplatelet drug a blocker an ACE inhibitor or ARB a statin fibrates biguanides blood pressure lowering agents cytokines cholesterol lowering agents erectile dysfunction drugs anti inflammatory drugs anti thrombosis drugs anticancer drugs anti diabetic drugs and or dietary supplements depending on the condition to be treated.

Compositions of the invention can be administered in combination with one or more drugs that are used as secondary prevention drugs for cardiovascular diseases. Examples of preventative drugs include but are not limited to blockers e.g. nonselective agents e.g. alprenolol carteolol oxprenolol sotalol timolol e.g. selective agents e.g. acebutolol betaxolol celiprolol metoprolol e.g. selective agents e.g. butaxamine e.g. selective agents e.g. SR 59230A statins e.g. atorvastatin cerivastatin fluvastatin lovastatin mevastatin pravastatin simvastatin and rosuvastatin fibrates e.g. bezafibrate ciprofibrate clofibrate gemfibrozil and fenofibrate biguanides e.g. metformin phenformin buformin and proguanil and or ACE inhibitors e.g. sulfhydryl containing agents e.g. captopril zofenopril e.g. dicarboxylate containing agents e.g. enalapril ramipril quinapril perindopril imidapril e.g. phosphate containing agents e.g. fosinopril .

The highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition of the invention can be administered in combination with one or more drugs for treatment of erectile dysfunction. Examples of drugs for treatment of erectile dysfunction include but are not limited to sildenafil tadalafil vardenafil alprostadil avanafil and yohimbine.

The highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition of the invention can be administered in combination with one or more anti neurodegenerative drugs. Examples of anti neurodegenerative drugs include but are not limited to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors e.g. donepezil galantamine and rivastigmine anti glutamate agent e.g. amantadine GABA ergic valproic acid reserpine tetrabenazine typical atypical neuroleptics tricyclic antidepressants SSRIs carbamazepine baclofen tizanidine and lamotrigine.

The highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition of the invention can be administered in combination with one or more anti inflammatory drugs. Examples of anti inflammatory drugs include but are not limited to steroids e.g. glucocorticoids e.g. corticosteroids non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs e.g. aspirin diflunisal salsalate ibuprofen naproxen fenoprofen ketoprofen flurbiprofen sulindac etodolac ketorolac nabumetone piroxicam meloxicam tenoxicam mefenamic acid flufenamic acid tolfenamic acid celecoxib rofecoxib parecoxib etoricoxib firocoxib nimesulide and licofelone immune selective anti inflammatory derivatives ImSAIDs e.g. phenylalanine glutamine glycine FEG and its D isomeric form feG and or herbs e.g. Harpagophytum hyssop ginger turmeric Arnica montana and willow bark .

The composition of the invention can be administered in combination with one or more dietary supplements to promote and or maintain general health. Examples of dietary supplements include but are not limited to a vitamin e.g. Vitamin A Vitamin B B B B B B B B Vitamin C Vitamin D Vitamin E and Vitamin K a mineral e.g. potassium chlorine sodium calcium magnesium phosphorus zinc iron manganese copper iodine selenium and molybdenum an herb or botanical e.g. St. John s wort kava Shilajit and Chinese herbal medicines an amino acid e.g. glycine serine methionine cysteine aspartic acid glutamic acid glutamine tryptophan and phenylalanine and a concentrate constituent extract and or a combination of any of the above.

The highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition can be formulated or administered in combination with one or more anticancer drugs. Examples of anticancer agents include but are not limited to chemotherapeutic agents e.g. arsenic trioxide cisplatin carboplatin chlorambucil melphalan nedaplatin oxaliplatin triplatin tetranitrate satraplatin imatinib nilotinib dasatinib and radicicol immunomodulatory agents e.g. methotrexate leflunomide cyclophosphamide cyclosporine A minocycline azathioprine antibiotics e.g. tacrolimus methylprednisolone corticosteroids steroids mycophenolate mofetil rapamycin mizoribine deoxyspergualin brequinar T cell receptor modulators and cytokine receptor modulators antiangiogenic agents e.g. bevacizumab suramin and etrathiomolybdate mitotic inhibitors e.g. paclitaxel vinorelbine docetaxel abazitaxel ixabepilone larotaxel ortataxel tesetaxel vinblastine vincristine vinflunine and vindesine nucleoside analogs e.g. gemcitabine azacitidine capecitabine carmofur cladribine clofarabine cytarabine decitabine floxuridine fludarabine fluorouracil mercaptopurine pentostatin tegafur and thioguanine DNA intercalating agents e.g. doxorubicin actinomycin bleomycin mitomycin and plicamycin topoisomerase inhibitors e.g. irinotecan aclarubicin amrubicin belotecan camptothecin daunorubicin epirubicin etoposide idarubicin mitoxantrone pirarubicin pixantrone rubitecan teniposide topotecan valrubicin and zorubicin folate antimetabolites e.g. pemetrexed aminopterin methotrexate pralatrexate and raltitrexed mitocans e.g. sodium dichloroacetate and 3 bromopyruvic acid and other targeting agents e.g. agents that target particular enzymes or proteins involved in cancer or agents that target particular organs or types of cancers and combinations thereof.

The highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich compositions of the invention and their uses will now be illustrated by means of the following non limiting examples. These examples are set forth merely for illustrative purposes and many other variations may be used.

Serum samples were obtained from a cardiac tissue and blood biorepository at the University of Louisville. All procedures were approved by the Institutional Review Board of the University of Louisville. The samples procured after informed consent from patients with advanced heart failure undergoing LV assist device placement. Additional serum samples from control patients were obtained from a commercial vendor Innovative Research .

CSE deficient KO mice C57 Sv129 background and cardiac restricted MHC CSE Tg mice C57BL 6J background were developed as described in Levy et al. 322 1561 1566 1990 Heineke et al. 7 589 600 2006. Male C57BL 6J mice 8 10 weeks of age were purchased from The Jackson Laboratory Bar Harbor Me. . All experimental protocols were approved by the Institute for Animal Care and Use Committee at Emory University School of Medicine and conformed to the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals published by the National Institutes of Health NIH Publication No. 86 23 revised 1996 and with federal and state regulations.

To create pressure overload the TAC procedure was performed in 10 14 week old mice. Mice were anesthetized with Ketamine 100 mg kg and Xylazine 8 mg kg and the core body temperature was maintained in normal range 36 37 C. . Mice were then orally intubated and placed on a rodent ventilator to maintain respiration during the surgical procedure. The second intercostal muscle was incised to visualize the aortic arch. Following identification and dissection of the aortic arch 7 0 silk suture was placed around the aortic arch between the brachiocephalic trunk and the left carotid artery and ligated around a 27 G blunt needle. The needle was immediately removed after ligation. The chest was surgically closed and mice were put in a recovery chamber with 100 oxygen along with a surgical warming pad to maintain core body temperature within normal limits. At the end of the experimental protocol i.e. 6 or 12 weeks following TAC surgery mice were euthanized and heart lung and blood samples were collected.

A zerovalent sulfur rich composition SG 1002 containing about 99 zerovalent sulfur melting between 119 and 120 C. was administered in the diet to mice to achieve dosages of 20 mg kg day in C57BL 6J mice or 40 mg kg day in CSE KO mice at one week prior to TAC procedure and was continued up to 12 weeks following TAC. In addition some C57BL 6J mice receiving SG 1002 diet were placed on the control diet at 1 week or 3 weeks following TAC.

At 2 days prior to TAC procedure baseline transthoracic echocardiogram was performed using 30 MHz probe on a Vevo 2100 Visualsonics under anesthesia with isoflurane 0.25 to 0.50 supplemented with 100 O. Following TAC procedure echocardiography was also performed in the same manner for up to 12 weeks. To determine cardiac structure and function intraventricular septal end diastolic dimension IVSd LV end diastolic dimension LVEDD LV end systolic dimension LVESD and LV ejection fraction LVEF were analyzed from M mode images.

Hydrogen sulfide and sulfane sulfur levels were measured in heart and blood according to methods known in the art. For heart tissue the amount of HS is reported as nmol mg wet weight. For the blood the amount of HS is reported as m.

Western blot analysis was performed as described in Li et al. 51 169 187 2011. Equal amounts of protein were loaded into lanes of polyacrylamide SDS gels. The gels were electrophoresed followed by transfer of the protein to a PVDF membrane. The membrane was then blocked and probed with primary antibodies overnight at 4 C. Immunoblots were next processed with secondary antibodies anti rabbit anti chicken or anti mouse Cell Signaling for 1 hour at room temperature. Immunoblots were then probed with an ECL Plus chemiluminescence reagent kit GE Healthcare to visualize signal followed by exposure to X ray film Denville Scientific . The film was scanned to make a digital copy and densitometric analysis was performed to calculate relative intensity with ImageJ software from the National Institutes of Health version 1.40 g using the Rodbard function. The membranes were incubated with the phospho specific antibody first. Membranes were then stripped and incubated with the total specific antibody. Results are presented as the ratio of the expression of phosphorylated protein to total protein. All experiments were performed in triplicate. For each membrane the relative intensity of each band was normalized to the value of the weakest band smallest intensity . The values for each individual sample were averaged to obtain one value for each sample. The values for each group were then averaged and subsequently normalized to the mean of the control group Sham .

Nitrite NO and nitrate NO analysis of cardiac tissue was determined by ion chromatography ENO20 Analyzer Eicom as previously described in Li et al. 51 169 187 2011.

Serum levels of VEGF VEGF ELISA kit R D Systems and brain natriuretic peptide BNP BNP EIA kit Phoenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. were determined by ELISA at 6 and or 12 weeks following TAC.

The myocardial mitochondria were isolated and mitochondrial respiratory capacity was assessed using methods known in the art. Mice were euthanized by cervical dislocation and hearts were quickly excised and placed in ice cold isolation buffer 300 mM sucrose 20 mM Tris 2 mM EGTA 1 mM ATP 5 mM MgCl and 1 fat free BSA . Hearts were finely chopped and homogenized with a Tissue Tearor Biospec Products Bartlesville Okla. on low to medium speed for 10 s. Homogenates were centrifuged for 3 min at 2 500 rpm. The supernatant was collected and centrifuged for 5 min at 9 000 rpm. The supernatant was discarded and the pellet was resuspended in isolation buffer and centrifuged for 5 min at 10 000 rpm and repeated two additional times. The final pellet was suspended in 100 L isolation buffer. Protein concentration was determined by a Lowry protein assay kit Bio Rad Laboratories Hercules Calif. . The Oconsumption of isolated mitochondria 500 g mL was monitored using a Clark type oxygen electrode Hansatech Instruments Amesbury Mass. . Mitochondria were incubated in respiration buffer 100 mM KCl 25 mM sucrose 5 mM KHP0 1 mM MgCl 1 mM EGTA 10 mM HEPES 10 mM glutamate and 2.5 mM malate and the respiratory capacity was assessed by measuring state 3 i.e. ADP dependent and state 4 i.e. ADP independent respiration. The respiratory control ratio RCR was calculated as the ratio of state 3 and state 4 respiration rates.

Concentrations of 8 isoprostane in the plasma and heart were determined by 8 isoprostane EIA kit according to manufacture instruction Cayman Chemicals Michigan .

For histological analysis hearts were collected at the indicated times fixed in 10 buffered formalin and embedded in paraffin. Serial 5 m heart sections from each group were stained with Masson s trichrome and Picrosirius Red to detect fibrosis . Digital images of the slides were then captured and analyzed using ImageJ. For each heart we analyzed multiple sections taken from the mid ventricle and then averaged these numbers to obtain a single fibrosis LV measurement for each animal.

All data are expressed as mean SEM. Statistical significance was evaluated using unpaired Student s t test for comparison between 2 means and ANOVA 1 way or 2 way for comparison among 3 or more means using Prism 5 Graph Pad Software Inc . For the ANOVA if a significant result was found the Tukey 1 way ANOVA or Bonferroni 2 way ANOVA test was used as the posthoc analysis. For all data a value of p

A prospective randomized double blind study evaluated and approved by the Ethics Committee of the Universidad Aut noma de Nuevo Le n University Hospital Monterrey Mexico with registration number BR09 001 was conducted. The study included patients who attended the Reproductive Biology Clinic of the University Hospital from July 2009 to September 2010 who desired to be pregnant and met the inclusion criteria. Patients between 20 and 45 years of age with a diagnosis of idiopathic oligoasthenozoospermia wishing to participate in the study after signing informed consent were included. The diagnosis of oligoasthenozoospermia was reached by performing two semen analyses on different dates with an interval of three weeks in between. To make the diagnosis the results of the semen analyses needed to report less than 25 type A sperm motility or less than 50 type A B sperm motility as detailed in the World Health Organization Laboratory Manual for the Examination of Human Semen and Semen Cervical Mucus Interaction 4ed. New York Cambridge University Press 1999. Type A Motility comprised rapid progression type B motility comprised medium progression type C mobility comprised slow or clumsy progression and type D mobility comprised immotile. Oligozoospermia was defined as a concentration of less than 20 million sperm per milliliter according to the criteria of the World Health Organization. Oligoasthenozoospermia was defined as the presence of oligozoospermia and asthenozoospermia in the same patient. In each semen analysis morphology was manually assessed using Kruger strict criteria.

Infertile patients with normal findings on semen analysis patients who were chronic smokers or those who had been taking antioxidants in the last 6 months prior to study entry were excluded. Patients with chronic degenerative diseases such as diabetes or high blood pressure or with hormonal abnormalities were also excluded. All study subjects who did not comply with medication given as prescribed who discontinued the drug or were hypersensitive to it were eliminated.

A complete medical history and physical examination was obtained for all patients. All study participants underwent a second semen analysis to confirm the diagnosis after a sexual abstinence of 3 to 5 days. This semen analysis was considered baseline sample 1 . On a second visit this new semen analysis was reviewed to confirm oligoasthenozoospermia and one of the 3 substances to be taken was randomly prescribed for 75 days. The substances given were 1.5 g of hydrogen sulfide prodrug as an antioxidant 50 mg of resveratrol as an antioxidant and 1.5 g of microcrystalline cellulose as a placebo.

Randomization of the substance given to each patient was performed by placing in a drawer at random all the containers having exactly the same color size and shape with the three separate substances hydrogen sulfide prodrug resveratrol and placebo without any kind of reference as to the content. Each container had a label with a serial number. The attending physician and the patient were unaware of the contents of the container. A third researcher had a log and database for each label and the contents of the container. Each patient was asked to take a container at random and the container number was recorded in the patient s medical record. At the end of the study before statistical analysis we obtained the relationship between the numbers on the labels and the contents grouping patients according to the substance. Each patient was given a treatment adherence form a patient log in order to count the days of medication and record adverse events if these occurred including the type and frequency.

The patients were scheduled one month after starting treatment third visit in order to document adverse effects and adherence to treatment. If the patient did not attend the event data were collected by phone.

In the next scheduled consultation fourth visit carried out 75 days after starting treatment adherence was verified and adverse effects were reported. For this visit the patients presented with 3 to 5 days of sexual abstinence for post treatment semen analysis sample 2 . Sperm concentration and motility were evaluated and carried out entirely with an automated IVOS Integrated Visual Optical System device and manually confirmed by lab technicians who were blinded to the treatment group that each patient in. The morphology of each semen analysis was manually assessed according to Kruger criteria.

Traditional descriptive data such as measures of central tendency means median and mode and in the case of quantitative variables measures of dispersion variance standard deviation and coefficient of variation were studied for each variable together with the frequencies observed in qualitative variables.

The study subjects were divided according to the group assigned and the statistical variables mentioned were analyzed. The results of each variable by group using hypothesis tests for means x and proportions according to each type of variable quantitative and qualitative respectively at a confidence interval of 95 with a statistically significant p

Previous studies suggest that both exogenous and endogenously derived HS exhibit potent cytoprotective effects in models of acute myocardial I R and ischemia induced heart failure. However the role of endogenous HS in pressure overload induced heart failure has not been fully elucidated. In the current study a number of novel findings regarding the role of CSE derived HS on the severity of heart failure following TAC have been identified and important insights into the mechanism by which oral HS therapy attenuates TAC induced heart failure are provided.

Circulating sulfide levels free HS and sulfane sulfur in 20 heart failure patients and 24 aged matched controls were examined. The detailed description of these patients is given in Table 7. As shown by the representative gas chromatograph peaks and summarized data in free HS levels were significantly lower in the heart failure patients as compared to the controls p 0.049 whereas sulfane sulfur levels trended to be lower in the heart failure patients and D p 0.054 . Next the effects of TAC induced heart failure on the myocardial expression of the three known HS producing enzymes were examined as well as the levels of circulating and myocardial sulfide levels at 6 weeks of TAC. The analysis revealed that the expression of CBS was unaltered . However CSE expression was upregulated in the vehicle mice compared to the sham p

To investigate the role of endogenous HS in pressure overload we performed TAC surgery in CSE KO mice and evaluated cardiac structure and function using echocardiography were performed. Initially it was confirmed that CSE KO mice exhibited lower free HS and sulfane sulfur levels in the blood and heart compared to WT mice p

Overexpression of CSE has been shown to increase HS production in the heart without alteration in CBS expression. In the present studies no alteration in cardiac CBS expressions in CS CSE Tg mice were observed but CS CSE Tg mice exhibited less 3 MST expression compared to WT mice . It was examined whether overexpression of CSE specifically within the cardiac myocyte would attenuate cardiac hypertrophy and or dysfunction following TAC using CS CSE Tg mice. CS CSE Tg mice exhibited significantly less cardiac enlargement and pulmonary edema as assessed by the ratio of heart and lung weights to tibia length mg cm when compared to WT controls . Furthermore echocardiography analysis revealed that while CS CSE Tg mice exhibited no difference in IVSd thickness when compared to WT mice they did exhibit less cardiac dilatation and dysfunction from 6 weeks to 12 weeks following TAC . Again no difference in mortality was observed between the two groups .

Together this data indicates that endogenous HS generated enzymatically by CSE plays an important role in the maintenance of cardiac function following pressure overload induced hypertrophy independently of the regulation of cardiac myocyte hypertrophy.

Next the effects of administration of oral HS therapy on pressure overload induced cardiac hypertrophy and dysfunction were examined in wild type C57BL 6J mice. For these experiments we administered SG 1002 20 mg kg day in the chow. Initial studies found that SG 1002 treatment partially restored free HS and significantly restored sulfane sulfur levels in the blood p

Further analysis revealed that the administration of SG 1002 to CSE KO mice slightly but not significantly increased free HS levels in the blood and heart whereas administration of SG 1002 did significantly increase sulfane sulfur levels in both the blood p

Together the results up to this point indicate that endogenous HS bioavailability is markedly attenuated in heart failure following pressure overload even though CSE and CBS expression levels are maintained or upregulated. Moreover augmentation of HS levels by genetic or pharmacological approaches prevents the transition from compensated to decompensated cardiac hypertrophy.

Experiments were then conducted to determine how withdrawal of SG 1002 from the chow would affect the development of cardiac dilatation and dysfunction after TAC. For these experiments SG 1002 was administered in the chow for 1 week and then subjected different groups of mice to 6 weeks of TAC 1 Mice received SG 1002 in the chow for 6 weeks following TAC 2 Mice received SG 1002 in the chow for 1 week following TAC and then received normal chow for 5 weeks 3 Mice received SG 1002 in the chow for 3 weeks following TAC and then received normal chow for 3 weeks. Echocardiography analysis revealed that all three groups of mice displayed similar degrees of increased IVSd thickness as well as similar LVEDD diameters from 1 week to 6 weeks following TAC . Withdrawal of SG 1002 after 1 week of TAC resulted in a larger increase in L VESD and a larger decrease in ejection fraction at 6 weeks of TAC when compared to the non withdrawal group p

The serine threonine kinase Akt regulates cardiac growth myocardial angiogenesis and survival in cardiac myocytes. SG 1002 treatment was examined to see whether activation Akt phosphorylation was activated in the heart following TAC. Representative Western blots for Akt phosphorylation status in the heart at 6 weeks following TAC are shown in . SG 1002 treatment did not alter total Akt expression in the heart but did significantly increase the expression of phosphorylated Akt at threonine residue 308 Akt P p

Nitric oxide NO generated from endothelial nitric oxide synthase eNOS is known to promote vascular and myocardial cell cytoprotection during ischemic conditions. To investigate the potential involvement of eNOS in SG 1002 induced cardioprotection following TAC the expression and the phosphorylation status of eNOS at serine residue 1177 eNOS P were assessed by Western blot analysis in the hearts of Sham vehicle and SG 1002 treated mice.

There were no differences in total eNOS expression in the heart among all groups E F . However the eNOS activation site eNOS P exhibited significantly greater phosphorylation following SG 1002 when compared to Sham and TAC Vehicle mice p

Mitochondrial energetic failure is considered one of the central pathological mechanisms in heart failure resulting from cardiac hypertrophy. Therefore respiratory function of isolated mitochondria obtained from mouse hearts at 6 weeks following TAC was investigated. A significant decrease in State 3 respiration rates p

Mitochondrial dysfunction leads to impaired ATP production and increased reactive oxygen species ROS generation that can result in increased apoptosis. Therefore 8 isoprostane levels were examined as a marker of antioxidant deficiency and oxidative stress in both the plasma and heart at 6 weeks following TAC. Both the TAC Vehicle and TAC SG 1002 treated mice exhibited higher plasma levels of 8 isoprostane compared to sham mice p

The examples described in examples 1 7 provide several lines of evidence to support the idea that sulfide levels may be an important predictor of heart failure severity. First in agreement with previous clinical studies further evidence is provided showing that circulating levels of sulfide are lower in heart failure patients. Second data is provided showing that this is mirrored in an experimental model of pressure overload induced heart failure as evidenced by the finding that both myocardial and circulating levels of free HS and sulfane sulfur are significantly reduced after TAC. Third it is demonstrated that a deficiency in endogenously produced HS results in an exacerbation of cardiac dysfunction following TAC whereas genetic overexpression of CSE significantly preserved left ventricular function. Finally chronic administration of a nHS donor provides protection against the adverse remodeling associated with TAC by increasing circulating and cardiac sulfide levels. While the mechanisms responsible for the heart failure induced decline in sulfide levels are currently not known this finding strongly suggests that a deficiency of HS may contribute to the pathophysiology and progression of heart failure. These findings also suggest that increasing the bioavailability of HS with oral HS donor therapy significantly preserves cardiac function in the setting of heart failure.

One of the main findings of the current study is that administration of SG 1002 significantly preserved cardiac function following TAC. Given that HS is a physiological gas that freely diffuses into multiple intracellular compartments independently of specific receptors it can be postulated that HS targets multiple pathological cascades simultaneously. One potential target is VEGF which is among the most potent angiogenic and cytoprotective cytokines. Givvimani et al. 110 1093 1100 2011 previously reported that sodium hydrogen sulfide NaHS in the drinking water augmented angiogenesis via increasing VEGF expression and inhibition of antiangiogenic factors angiostatin and endostatin . Short term Akt activation in inducible transgenic mice induces physiological hypertrophy with maintained vascular density whereas deficiency in Akt results in exacerbated cardiac dysfunction due to lack of exercise induced cardiac hypertrophy. In this study SG 1002 treatment was demonstrated to activate a VEGF Akt eNOS NO signaling pathway at 6 weeks following the induction of TAC a time point when cardiac hypertrophy and left ventricular dysfunction are significant .

An increase in oxidative stress and or a deficiency in the endogenous antioxidant reserve can also cause contractile dysfunction. The cardioprotective effects of HS against myocardial I R are mediated by antioxidant signaling. In addition HS directly scavenges reactive oxygen species ROS in vitro. Therefore endogenous HS may directly and or indirectly contribute to modulation of oxidative stress in the setting of pressure overload induced hypertrophy. Here it was demonstrated that HS attenuates the TAC induced increase in oxidative stress as evidenced by the finding that SG 1002 decreases cardiac 8 isoprostane levels. In terms of mechanism it was determined that SG 1002 attenuates the TAC induced upregulation of Nox4 a member of the NADPH oxidase family that is a major source of ROS related cardiac dysfunction in the setting of pressure overload. It was also determined that SG 1002 upregulated the expression of HO 1 and preserved mitochondrial respiratory function. Since mitochondrial respiratory dysfunction in the heart leads to metabolic remodeling deficit cardiac energetics and increased oxidative stress the preserved mitochondrial respiratory function observed in the current study could be an additional mechanism to explain the inhibition of oxidative stress by HS following TAC.

It has been generally thought that HS and NO exert their biological effects via independent signaling pathways. Recent experimental evidence suggests that there is crosstalk between the HS and NO signaling pathways which could provide synergistic and additional regulatory effects. For example HS upregulates NO production in endothelial cells through the activation of eNOS in an Akt dependent manner. Likewise NO has been shown to enhance the production of HS from vascular tissue and more recently Coletta et al. 109 9161 9166 2012 demonstrated that NO and HS are mutually required for the control of vascular function. Therefore another major finding of the current study is the evidence that exogenous HS therapy very potently activates eNOS and increases NO bioavailability within the myocardium. This is important for two reasons 1 it further corroborates the evidence that there is crosstalk between the HS and NO systems and 2 provides evidence for the first time that HS increases the bioavailability of NO in an in vivo model of disease. Consequently the activation of eNOS by SG 1002 may serve as an important mechanism for the observed protective effects against TAC. In terms of its effects on hypertrophy NO produced from eNOS has been shown to have antihypertrophic effects in the heart as evidenced by the findings that eNOS KO mice have hypertension and cardiac hypertrophy and exhibit exacerbated cardiac dysfunction due to pressure overload induced hypertrophy compared to WT mice. Moreover cardiac specific overexpression of eNOS prevents isoproterenol induced cardiac hypertrophy. However in sharp contrast Takimoto et al. 115 1221 1231 2011 suggested that pressure overload results in eNOS uncoupling resulting in increased myocardial oxidant production and exacerbated cardiac function. In spite of this physicians have been successfully using drugs which are able to activate eNOS i.e. ACE 1 ARB and blockers in the treatment of heart failure. Therefore controversy still remains in regards to the utility and effectiveness of NO based therapies in the treatment of heart failure which warrants further investigation to resolve these issues. Additionally both NO and HS are known to increase HO 1 levels an enzyme that produces carbon monoxide CO . This suggests that the activation of one of the endogenously produced gases can lead to the activation of the other two. Under these conditions the three gases have the ability to synergize to produce antiapoptotic antioxidant anti inflammatory and antihypertrophic effects which ultimately can lead to cardioprotection.

The findings of the current study indicate that preserving sulfide levels during the development of pressure overload induced heart failure preserves cardiac function and prevents the transition from compensated to decompensated cardiac hypertrophy. Furthermore the current study indicates that administration of a novel oral HS donor facilitates these protective effects by activating a VEGF Akt eNOS NO signaling pathway significantly increasing NO bioavailability . This cardioprotective signaling cascade ultimately results in the inhibition of oxidative stress attenuated cardiac fibrosis preservation of mitochondrial respiration and preserved left ventricular function. The study suggests that endogenously produced HS plays an important role in the preservation of cardiac function in heart failure and that oral HS therapy may be a therapeutic option for the treatment of LV dysfunction in the setting of pressure overload induced hypertrophy.

Between July 2009 and September 2010 a total of 435 men of which 125 28.73 had oligoasthenozoospermia were evaluated at the University Center for Reproductive Medicine. Seventy two patients who agreed to enter the study were recruited of these 18 were eliminated for various reasons five did not present a combination of oligozoospermia and asthenozoospermia in the second semen analysis before treatment eight had a chronic degenerative disease three were chronic smokers and two had taken antioxidants two months before the study . Fifty four patients were included in the study who started treatment. Three dropped out one mentioned strange smelling sweat one referred nausea and flatulence during the first three days of ingestion of the hard gelatin capsules each containing 400 mg of SG 1002 5 capsules per day and one argued that there were too many capsules to take per day . When the patients were seen at the end of the 75 days of treatment four did not attend despite insisting by telephone.

Information from 47 patients who complied with the protocol was analyzed. Mean age of the patients was 34.23 years with 32 years being the most frequent. Patients were divided into three groups hydrogen sulfide prodrug resveratrol and placebo maintaining a similar relationship between groups. Sixteen patients were included in the resveratrol group 16 in the hydrogen sulfide prodrug group and 15 in the placebo group. Two evaluations were made a baseline sample and after treatment. In each of the two evaluations variables such as concentration motility and morphology in fresh semen and post capacitation were analyzed. The baseline characteristics of the three groups were similar. The average age of patients in each group was 34.6 years for hydrogen sulfide prodrug group 35 years for the resveratrol group and 33.07 years for the placebo group.

Mean sperm baseline concentration was 10.84 million per milliliter with 0.5 million per milliliter being the lowest concentration and 19.9 million per milliliter the highest concentration. The mean concentration in the first sample was 11.02 10.9 and 10.64 million per milliliter for the hydrogen sulfide prodrug resveratrol and placebo groups respectively. As for sperm motility recorded at baseline A B type motility had a mean of 13.43 14.43 and 8.33 for the hydrogen sulfide prodrug resveratrol and placebo groups respectively. The morphology recorded in sample 1 was also similar in the three groups 31.6 for the hydrogen sulfide prodrug group 32.06 for the resveratrol group and 30.06 for the placebo group with no statistically significant difference. The mobile forms recovered MFR obtained post sperm capacitation were 0.579 0.40 and 0.371 million for the hydrogen sulfide prodrug resveratrol and placebo group respectively Table 8 .

The data obtained from the first samples of the placebo group were compared with data obtained from the hydrogen sulfide prodrug. No statistically significant differences were found between the placebo group and the hydrogen sulfide prodrug group. Samples that were collected after treatment showed different data among the groups. The sperm concentration for the hydrogen sulfide prodrug group was 17.01 vs. 11.18 million for the placebo group p 0.038 . A B motility for the hydrogen sulfide prodrug group was 20.06 vs. 10.06 in the placebo group p 0.037 . The morphology obtained was 36.3 for the hydrogen sulfide prodrug group compared to the placebo group with 30.4 p 0.088 . The MFR post capacitation for the hydrogen sulfide prodrug group was 1.62 10vs. 0.338 10in the placebo group p 0.035 Table 9 .

The results of this study provide support for using therapy with antioxidants such as SG1002 i.e. agents that act not only as free radical reactive oxygen species scavengers but also as indirect antioxidants that induce genes to generate other small molecule antioxidants antioxidant enzymes and enzymes that regulate lipid metabolism as a valid method for improving spermatogenesis in carefully selected patients. This is the first prospective controlled randomized double blind clinical trial that shows that hydrogen sulfide prodrug therapy improves some seminal parameters.

An increase in sperm concentration was observed in the hydrogen sulfide prodrug group this was the only group with a statistically significant increase. These findings demonstrate and confirm the data obtained in other studies where antioxidant therapy appears to be effective in the management of patients with oligoasthenozoospermia.

In summary this study demonstrates that hydrogen sulfide prodrugs such as SG1002 are well tolerated by the human body without developing significant adverse effects at the doses used and can increase the sperm count motility normal morphology and MFR post capacitation.

Two trials were conducted on patients diagnosed with different forms of osteosarcoma. In one study the patient was 11 years old. The baseline condition was characterized as osteoblastic osteosarcoma of the left distal femur presented with a pathological fracture and important tumor related swelling and loss of function of the adjacent joint. The patient s physical examination was remarkable for the presence of a soft tissue mass and redness at the site of the primary tumor. No evidence of lung metastasis was recorded. The patient received four cycles of chemotherapy with cisplatin doxorubicin ifosfamide and etoposide with no apparent clinical response. Chemotherapy was stopped before treatment with the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition. The treatment regimen consisted of administration of nine hard gelatin capsules each containing 400 mg SG 1002 per day of the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition for 12 weeks. By the end of the second week the patient began to feel better the pain subsided and the inflammation also began to decline. The X ray showed reduction of the limb soft tissue surrounding the tumor. At the end of the fourth week inflammation of the extremity had fallen dramatically to almost disappearance. There was no pain and the X ray radiograph showed signs of growth of the cortical bone. At the end of the eighth week the inflammation had completely disappeared. The mood of the patient was excellent. There was no pain and the X ray radiograph showed greater cohesion bone. At the end of the twelfth week the X ray radiograph clearly showed greater cohesion bone. The bone was consolidated with angulation product of the original pathological fracture.

In the second study the patient was 13 years old. The baseline condition was characterized as telangiectasis osteosarcoma of the left proximal humerus presented with a pathological fracture and important tumor related swelling and loss of function of the left shoulder. His physical examination was remarkable for the presence of a soft tissue mass and redness at the site of the primary tumor. At the time of diagnosis there was evidence of bilateral lung metastases. Conventional X rays showed a cystic lucent lesion with a soft tissue mass with periosteal reaction. The patient received six cycles of chemotherapy with cisplatin doxorubicin high dose methotrexate ifosfamide and etoposide with modest clinical response. At the end of the sixth cycle chemotherapy was stopped. The treatment regimen consisted of administration of 9 capsules per day of the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition for 12 weeks. By the end of the third week the patient began to feel better the pain subsided and the inflammation also began to decline. By the end of the fourth week the X ray radiograph showed reduction of the limb soft tissue surrounding the tumor. The CAT scan showed no improvement of the pulmonary metastases although metastases no longer progressed. At the end of the eighth week the limb inflammation had decreased although still noticeable. The patient had no pain and the X ray radiograph showed that the tumor had not progressed. At the end of the twelfth week the soft tissue swelling persisted. The mood of the patient was excellent. There was no pain and the X ray radiograph showed no progression of the cancer in the bone. The CAT scan showed no new pulmonary metastases.

Three trials were conducted on patients showing signs of hydrocephalus. In the first trial the patient was 3 years old. Her baseline condition was characterized by non specific signs of hydrocephalus. An MRI showed a mass in the posterior fossa. Surgery was planned and an incomplete resection was performed. Pathology results showed an infratentorial atypical tertoid rabdoid tumor with leptomeningeal dissemination. She was treated at that time with various cycles of chemotherapy with very modest response. Chemotherapy was suspended and the patient was placed on palliative care. A treatment regimen consisting of administration of 6 hard gelatin capsules each containing 400 mg SG 1002 per day of the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition was started for a period of 12 weeks. The patient began to show signs of improvement at the end of the second week. The sleepiness improved and by the end of the eighth week the patient was fully conscious and without clinical evidence of headache vomiting or irritability. The patient had an important neurological recovery and at the end of the twelfth week the patient was able to stand and walk a few steps. The radiological evidence of the tumor disappeared and the patient could walk unaided and eat normally in the next few weeks.

In the second trial the patient was 2 years old. She was presented with insidious non localizing signs of increased intracranial pressure with hydrocephalus. MRI showed an intraventricular mass in the lateral ventricle. Surgery was planned a CSF shunt was placed and an incomplete resection was performed. Pathology results showed an anaplastic tumor consistent with choroid plexus carcinoma. She was treated at that time with various cycles of chemotherapy with very modest response. The parents decided at that time not to give their child further treatment. A treatment regimen consisting of administration of 3 hard gelatin capsules each containing 400 mg SG 1002 per day of the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition was then initiated for a period of 12 weeks. The patient began to show signs of improvement at the end of the second week. The sleepiness was improved and by the end of the eighth week the patient was fully conscious and without clinical evidence of headache vomiting or irritability. The patient had an important neurological recovery at the end of the twelfth week and the patient was able to stand and walk a few steps. The radiological evidence of the residual tumor decreased but did not disappear.

The third trial was conducted on a patient who was 5 years old. She presented with non specific signs of increased intracranial pressure with hydrocephalus vomiting headaches somnolence and upward gaze palsy. MRI showed an enlarged pineal heterogeneous mass with calcifications. Surgery was planned a CSF shunt was placed and an incomplete resection was performed. Pathology results were consistent with pinealoblastoma. She was treated at that time with various cycles of medulloblastoma type chemotherapy with initial good response but months later showed evidence of relapse. The parents of the patient decided at that time not to give their child further treatment. A treatment regimen consisting of administration of 6 hard gelatin capsules each containing 400 mg SG 1002 per day of the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition was then initiated for a period of 12 weeks. The patient began to show improvement by the third week. The sleepiness was improved and at the end of the twelfth week the patient was fully conscious and without clinical evidence of headache vomiting or irritability. Radiological evidence of the residual tumor decreased but did not disappear.

A trial was conducted on a 6 year old patient diagnosed with supratentorial ependymoma. She was presented in bad clinical condition with signs of increased intracranial pressure with hydrocephalus vomiting headaches somnolence and papilledema. MRI showed a locally invasive tumor infiltrating adjacent to the brain at the thalamic region. Pathology review slides were consistent with a diagnosis of ependymoma. She was treated at that time with incomplete surgery and different cycles of chemotherapy. No radiotherapy was accepted and the parents decided not to give their child further treatment. She began a treatment regimen of administration of six hard gelatin capsules each containing 400 mg SG 1002 per day of the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition for 12 weeks. The patient showed improvement by the third week. The somnolence improved gradually and by the end of the twelfth week the patient had improved considerably with large decrease in headache vomiting and irritability. The radiological evidence of residual tumor decreased and the clinical condition improved markedly.

An 18 month old patient with evidence of macrocephaly and lethargy alternating with irritability was treated with the highly bioavailable sulfur rich composition. MRI prior to treatment showed hydrocephalus and a tumor mass localized in the posterior fossa. Surgery was planned a CSF shunt was placed and a partial resection was performed. Pathology results were consistent with ependymoma. Her signs of intracraneal pressure improved because of the shunt and her hemiparesis was almost resolved. No further treatment was accepted by the parents. Four months later a MRI showed that the tumor size was increasing and the patient started complaining again of headaches somnolence and progressive hemiparesis. Treatment regimen consisted of administration of six hard gelatin capsules each containing 400 mg SG 1002 per day of the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition for 12 weeks. The patient showed a slight improvement by the third week. Headache and drowsiness improved but did not disappear. By the end of the twelfth week the patient felt better had occasional headache no vomiting and the hemiparesis did not progress. The radiological evidence of residual tumor after 14weeks showed that there was no increase in the size compared to the last study.

A 5 year old patient presented initially with progressive signs of hemiparesis at the age of three was treated with the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition of the invention for 12 weeks with administration of six hard gelatin capsules each containing 400 mg SG 1002 per day. The patient s baseline condition consisted of non specific signs of increased intracranial pressure with morning vomiting headaches and somnolence. MRI showed a supratentorial tumor mass with signs of hemorrage and calcifications. Surgery was planned a CSF shunt was placed and a partial resection was performed. Pathology results were consistent with anaplastic ependymoma. Her signs of intracraneal pressure improved because of the shunt and her hemiparesis was almost resolved. She started chemotherapy and received 12 cycles with almost complete resolution of her signs and symptoms. MRI showed improvement with no macroscopic evidence of tumor. Four months later a MRI showed regional tumor invasion and the patient started complaining again of headaches somnolence and progressive hemiparesis. No further treatment was accepted by the parents. Upon administration of the highly bioavailable sulfur rich composition the patient showed slight improvement by the third week. Headache and drowsiness improved. By the end of the twelfth week the patient felt better had no vomiting and the hemiparesis did not progress. Radiological evidence of the residual tumor after 14 weeks showed no increase in the size compared to the last study.

A trial was conducted on a 14 year old patient with recurrent medulloblastoma and pelvic dissemination of his original tumor through CSF shunt. He presented initially with abdominal pain swelling of the extremities and urinary symptoms as well as headaches morning nauseas and ataxia. He started chemotherapy with modest results. Treatment of the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition was initiated for 12 weeks by administration of nine hard gelatin capsules each containing 400 mg SG 1002 per day. The patient showed improvement by the third week. The waist circumference decreased and the urinary symptoms disappeared. Headache and ataxia improved but did not disappear. By the end of the twelfth week the patient felt better the abdominal pelvic tumor had decreased significantly. The headache and ataxia was greatly improved. The radiological evidence of the meduloblastoma recurrent in the posterior fossa did not increase in size compared to previous studies.

A trial was conducted on a 57 year old patient with rectal bleeding and pain due to recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal treated with surgery chemotherapy and radiation therapy. His condition recurred three months after his last radiation treatment and he refused further treatment. The patient was put on a treatment regimen of nine hard gelatin capsules each containing 400 mg SG 1002 per day of the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition of the invention. The patient showed improvement in pain in 4 or 5 days after the start of the treatment regimen. By the third week the pain was gone and the rectal bleeding had subsided. The patient decided to restart a program of salvage chemotherapy along with the treatment regimen of the highly bioavailable sulfur rich composition.

A trial was conducted on a 13 year old patient diagnosed with pre B calla acute lymphoblastic leukemia. She was in first remission and was taking medication according to protocol BFM 85. After 6 months of treatment she started taking hydrogen sulfide precursor capsules and said she felt much better and was capable of doing exercise with better tolerance. She was running hiking during weekends and attending school regularly. Her treatment regimen consisted of administration of six hard gelatin capsules each containing 400 mg SG 1002 per day. The patient was able to compare how she felt before and after the intake of the precursor of hydrogen sulfide. Her physical and intellectual capacity improved. Now she can tolerate extreme exercises such as walking cross country and running a 5 10 km marathon. Her mood has also improved.

A trial was conducted on a 47 year old patient diagnosed with heart failure at the age of 46 after having increasing shortness of breath after moderate activities or exercise and chest pain. After a couple of months of ignoring his symptoms he had a heart attack. He already has a coronary angioplasty. The patient did not smoke but has a family history of diabetes and high cholesterol levels. His ejection fraction was less than 40 . He started a treatment regimen of six hard gelatin capsules each containing 400 mg SG 1002 per day of the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition. The treatment regimen lasted for four months. By the end of the second week the patient began to feel better blood sugar levels regularized even though the patient continued use of glibenclamide every 12 hours. The breathlessness improved by the third week. By the eighth week sugar levels were stable and the use of glibenclamide was reduced to one tablet per day without impact. Shortness of breath with exercise decreased just as chest pain. At the end of the fourth month a ventricular ejection fraction study came above 40 and the patient felt better and had better tolerance for exercise.

A trial was conducted on a 44 year old obese male patient with type 2 diabetes. He was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes since he was 30 years old. Since then he has been taking glibenclamide with regular sugar control. At the age of 41 he started noticing regular coughing shortness of breath and orthopnea. He had a heart attack at the age of 42 and his ejection fraction after that was less than 40 . He started a treatment regimen of six hard gelatin capsules each containing 400 mg SG 1002 per day of the highly bioavailable zerovalent sulfur rich composition. The treatment regimen lasted for three months. By the third week the patient began to feel better blood sugar levels regularized even though the patient continued to use glibenclamide. Lack of air began to improve by the end of the seventh week. At the end of the third month the patient only took glibenclamide in the mornings but his glycaemia was practically normal.

While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth.

All publications patents and patent applications are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety to the same extent as if each individual publication patent or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference in its entirety.

