---

title: Method and apparatus for enabling a user to select an authentication method
abstract: The present invention facilitates access to a restricted service related to secure transactions via a network. The present invention allows a user to select a minimum security level of authentication for its own login to a restricted service. The user's selected minimum security level of authentication may be registered in an authentication method system, so that the user must use the selected minimum security level for authentication in order to gain access to the restricted service. Alternatively, the user may specify that the selected minimum security level for authentication may be over-turned by the user, or optionally re-set to a new authentication method depending on the needs of the user. As such, the present invention allows the user the flexibility to select its own authentication method for accessing a restricted service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08856897&OS=08856897&RS=08856897
owner: Sora Applications LLC
number: 08856897
owner_city: Dover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120918
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Ser. No. 13 092 820 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ENABLING A USER TO SELECT AN AUTHENTICATION METHOD filed on. Apr. 22 2011. The 820 application is a continuation of and claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Pat. No. 7 941 669 issued on May 10 2011 aka U.S. Ser. No. 10 035 064 filed on Dec. 27 2001 and entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ENABLING A USER TO SELECT AN AUTHENTICATION METHOD . The 669 patent claims priority to and the benefit of the U.S. provisional patent application entitled AUTHENTICATION METHOD DETERMINATION filed on Jan. 3 2001 as U.S. Ser. No. 60 259 506. Both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention generally relates to facilitating the determination of an authentication method for accessing a restricted service related to transactions via a network and more particularly to a system and method for enabling a user to select a minimum security level of authentication for accessing a restricted service in connection with a secure transaction via a network.

Various methods of authentication of a user have been used in the past to identify a user verify information or allow access to a restricted service or location. For example obtaining access to a building or an area within a building may require biometric identification of the user. Another example is accessing on line services which may require a user identifier identification and password to access a webpage. As used herein a user typically includes a consumer e.g. desiring to purchase and or sell a product service or other item of commerce . A user may also be a merchant a distributor a supplier a seller and or any person or entity desiring to gain access to a restricted service or location.

A number of channels for purchases are available including entering a merchant location shop at home television networks call in responses to television advertisements and the like. Moreover many consumers have discovered the convenience and economy of purchasing goods and services directly on line electronically commonly called e purchases . In a typical Internet transaction a consumer generally identifies goods and or services for purchase by viewing an online advertisement such as a hypertext markup language HTML document provided via a World Wide Web WWW browser. Payment typically occurs in various ways such as for example by utilizing a charge card number that is provided via a secure channel such as a secure sockets layer SSL connection that is established between the consumer and the merchant.

Because of the high incidence of fraud in Internet transactions most charge card issuers consider network transactions to be Card Not Present transactions subject to a higher discount rate. Stated another way because of the increased risk from Card Not Present transactions most Charge card issuers charge the merchant a higher rate for accepting card numbers via electronic means than would be charged if the card were physically presented to the merchant. To improve the security deficiencies inherent in transporting charge card numbers over unsecure networks many have suggested the use of smart cards . Smartcards typically include an integrated circuit chip having a microprocessor and memory for storing data directly on the card. The data can correspond to a cryptographic key for example or to an electronic purse that maintains an electronic value of currency. Many smart card schemes for internet transactions have been suggested in the prior art but these typically exhibit a marked disadvantage in that they are non standard and typically require the merchants to obtain new proprietary software for their Web storefronts to accept the smart card transactions. Moreover the administration costs involved with assigning and maintaining the cryptographic information associated with smart cards have generally been excessive to date. Additional information relating to smart card and smart card reader payment technology is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 952 490 filed on Sep. 12 2001 U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 232 040 filed on Sep. 12 2000 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 742 845 5 898 838 and 5 905 908 owned by Datascape which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Existing digital wallet technology is used to provide a means for users to utilize transaction card products e.g. credit charge debit and smart cards account numbers and the like to pay for products and services on line. More details related to digital wallets and smart card technology can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 653 837 entitled Transaction Card which was filed on Sep. 1 2000 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 652 899 entitled Method and Apparatus For Conducting Electronic Transactions filed on Aug. 31 2000 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 734 098 entitled Method and Apparatus For Illuminating a Transaction Card filed Dec. 11 2000 all of which are herein incorporated by reference. In general digital wallets are tools which store personal information name address charge card number credit card number etc. in order to facilitate electronic commerce or other network interactions. The personal information can be stored on a general server or at a client location Personal Computer PC or Smartcard or on a hybrid of both a general server and a client server. Presently the digital wallet general server is typically comprised of a Web server and a database server which centrally houses the user s personal and credit card information shopping preferences and profiles of on line merchants.

A digital wallet preferably performs functions such as single sign on one password automatic form tilling of check out pages one or two click purchasing personalization of web sites on line order and delivery tracking itemized electronic receipts and customized offers and promotions based upon spending patterns and opt ins. More particularly a one click purchase activates the wallet and confirms the purchase at the same time. A two click check out first activates the wallet then the second click confirms the purchase. In use the wallet bookmark is typically clicked by the user and an SSL session is established with the Wallet server. A browser plug in is executed and the user supplies a user identification and password or smart card for authentication in order to gain access to the wallet data. When shopping at an on line merchant the appropriate wallet data is transferred from the wallet server to the merchant s Web server.

For more information on digital wallet systems loyalty systems transaction systems electronic commerce systems see for example the Shop AMEX system as disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 230 190 filed Sep. 5 2000 the MR as Currency and Loyalty Rewards Systems as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 834 478 filed on Apr. 13 2001 U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 197 296 filed on Apr. 14 2000 U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 200 492 filed Apr. 28 2000 U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 201 114 filed May 2 2000 a digital wallet system disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 652 899 filed Aug. 31 2000 a stored value card as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 241 188 filed on Feb. 1 1999 a system for facilitating transactions using secondary transaction numbers disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 800 461 filed on Mar. 7 2001 U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 187 620 filed Mar. 7 2000 U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 200 625 filed Apr. 28 2000 and U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 213 323 filed May 22 2000 all of which are herein incorporated by reference. Other examples of an online membership reward systems are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 774 870 issued on Jun. 30 1998 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 009 412 issued on Dec. 29 1999 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Existing systems however are limited to pre defined security features and procedures and generally require that a merchant initiate changes to accommodate each different smart card or wallet. Thus a new system of accessing a restricted service e.g. conducting electronic transactions is desired which would allow the user to select the method of authentication and provide improved security with minimal overhead for users and merchants. Moreover it is desirable that such a new system integrate well with various smart cards and Internet web pages and other services provided by various card issuers and merchants.

The present invention includes a system and method for selecting at least one authentication method for accessing a restricted service. The system allows a user to select a method of authentication for access to the restricted service where the restricted service may require at least one of many methods of authentication in order to gain access to it. The system registers the user selected method of authentication such that gaining access to the restricted service requires the user to use the pre selected method of authentication. In this way the user may select the minimum level of security required for authentication in order to access the restricted service. Alternatively a host may select the minimum level of security required for authentication for accessing the restricted service based on predetermined characteristics of the user.

The present invention may be described herein in terms of functional block components screen shots optional selections and various processing steps. It should be appreciated that such functional blocks may be realized by any number of hardware and or software components configured to perform the specified functions. For example the present invention may employ various integrated circuit components e.g. memory elements processing elements logic elements lookup tables and the like which may carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control devices. Similarly the software elements of the present invention may be implemented with any programming or scripting language such as Basic C C Java COBOL assembler PERL with the various algorithms being implemented with any combination of data structures objects processes routines or other programming elements. Further it should be noted that the present invention may employ any number of conventional techniques for data transmission signaling data processing network control and the like. Still further the invention could be used to validate data with a user side scripting language such as JavaScript VBScript or the like.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method a data processing system a device for data processing and or a computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining aspects of both software and hardware. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code means embodied in the storage medium. Any suitable computer readable storage medium may be utilized including hard disks CD ROM optical storage devices magnetic storage devices and or the like.

The present invention is described herein with reference to block diagrams and flowchart illustrations of methods apparatus e.g. systems and computer program products according to various aspects of the invention. It will be understood that each functional block of the block diagrams and the flowchart illustrations and combinations of functional blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations respectively can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Accordingly functional blocks of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each functional block of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations and combinations of functional blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations can be implemented by either special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or steps or suitable combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

It should be appreciated that the particular implementations shown and described herein are illustrative of the invention and its best mode and are not intended to otherwise limit the scope of the present invention in any way. Indeed for the sake of brevity conventional data networking application development and other functional aspects of the systems and components of the individual operating components of the systems may not be described in detail herein. Furthermore the connecting lines shown in the various figures contained herein are intended to represent exemplary functional relationships and or physical couplings between the various elements. It should be noted that many alternative or additional functional relationships or physical connections may be present in a practical electronic transaction system.

To simplify the description of the exemplary embodiments the present invention is described as pertaining to a system of electronic commerce e.g. transactions running over the Internet. It will be appreciated however that many applications of the present invention could be formulated. For example the system could be used to authenticate users of a computer system to activate a passcode system to access a retracted service or network to access a building or other restricted area automobile security and access or any other purpose. The system may also be used to access on line services kiosk services Point of Sale POS terminals Automatic Teller Machines ATMs and or the like.

Prior art systems typically allow a security administrator to set levels of security or authentication globally or establish the levels for a pre selected group. illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the present invention which allows a user to select a minimum security level for authentication for its own login to a restricted service. While using the functionality of this exemplary embodiment of the present invention to access a restricted service e.g. an on line service a website a webpage a function an individual application within a website and or the like or a restricted area a user is queried regarding the desired level of security for authentication e.g. the user is queried to select one or more levels of security for authentication via a dialog box step . The user is typically a consumer desiring to access an on line service access a restricted area purchase and or sell a product service or other item of commerce otherwise transact in commerce and or communicate with another entity. The user may alternatively be a merchant a distributor a supplier a person an entity software hardware and or the like desiring to transact or otherwise communicate with a consumer a merchant a distributor a supplier a person an entity software hardware and or the like. The user may interact with the system via any input device such as a computing unit keyboard mouse smart card reader biometric system kiosk personal digital assistant handheld computer e.g. Palm Pilot cellular phone and or the like.

The system facilitates a user s selection of a method of authentication for access to the restricted service wherein the restricted service may require a method of authentication in order to gain access to the restricted service e.g. the system allows the user to submit a level of security for authentication by entry of the selection into the dialog box steps . Alternatively a host may select the minimum security level for authentication for the particular user based at least partially upon predetermined characteristics. In this exemplary embodiment of the present invention the user may select between using a standard user identification and password entry into a user dialog box step or using a smart card and PIN authentication method step as the minimum level of security for authentication. For example a standard user identification and password can be created by the system or chosen by the user. In the same way a PIN used with a smart card may be generated by the system or chosen by the user. Of course any method of authentication may be used depending on the needs of the user and the functionality of the system providing the security level. Examples of other authentication methods include user identification and pass phrase biometric with or without a password e.g. keyboard latency fingerprint palm print eye retina scan voice recognition and or the like smart card and digital certificate Palm Pilot and digital certificate sound verification radio frequency and password infrared and password and or the like.

As such the system may be configured to use two levels of security for authentication an item or device e.g. transaction card and known secret information e.g. password certificate etc . In addition the user may choose to require more than one authentication method i.e. any number of authentication methods for each restricted service or access. For example the restricted service or access may require both the user identification and password and the smart card and PIN authentication methods to gain access.

When accessing a restricted service a restricted network a restricted area a website a webpage a function or an individual application within a website when activating a service or card during a registration process or during use of an application the user is presented with a set up routine dialog box or any other system method for receiving input which requests the user to select a minimum security level for authentication desired by the user step . Once the user selects a method of authentication e.g. a minimum security level for authentication then the user selected method of authentication may be registered into the system. The system may be configured such that gaining access to a restricted service or location may require the user selected method of authentication. However the method of authentication may only be required at certain locations during certain times of day during certain days while the user is a member or not a member of a certain group during certain periods of high security alerts and or the like.

If the user chooses a user identification and password level of security for authentication step then the system registers this level of security for this particular user step . For example in a charge card website e.g. www.americanexpress.com the user may prefer to require only a user identification and password to access the summary of his monthly charge card statement. Alternatively if the user selects smart card and PIN level of security for authentication step then the system registers this level of security for this particular user step . In such an exemplary embodiment the user may prefer to require an advanced security feature for authentication such as a smart card and PIN or a digital certificate on a smart card with a PIN may be used to access a brokerage account. Thus the system registers the user selected level of security for the user such that the system may authenticate the user based on the predetermined security level.

If the user does not choose a desired security level for authentication then the user may be unknown to the system step so the user is given the option of registering the user in the system step . Once the user registers itself in the system then the user may begin at step and choose a desired security level for authentication as illustrated. Accordingly once the user selects a desired security level for authentication then the system may authenticate the user based on the predetermined security level for authentication step . Thus the present invention allows a user to select a minimum security level for authentication for her own login.

If the system has authenticated the user via the user identification and password entry or the smart card and PIN entry or the user registers to use one of these authentication methods then the user and the user s authentication method are revealed to the host step . Accordingly the user is identified and authorized to access the restricted service step . Identification may include retrieving information on the user s profile stored in the host. Thus the system allows the user to gain access to the restricted service upon authenticating the user pursuant to the selected method of authentication.

Once the host has authenticated the user step the system attempts to determine the user s predetermined method of authentication step in . illustrates a method for determining the authentication method pre set by the user in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The system retrieves a user preference from a database where the user preference indicates one or more authentication methods pre set by the user step . For example if the user has pre selected the user identification and password method of authentication then the user preference is the user identification and password method of authentication is retrieved.

The user preference may be stored in a database and the system may use a database call to confirm the user s pre selected method of authentication step . A data base call may include e.g. back up data tracking information and or the like. A database may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical object oriented and or the like. Common database products that may be used to implement each database include DB2 by IBM White Plains N.Y. any of the database products available from Oracle Corporation Redwood Shores Calif. Microsoft SQL Server by Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. or any other database product. Each database may be organized in any suitable manner including data tables or lookup tables.

The exemplary embodiment illustrated in assumes that the smart card and PIN authentication method is the user s pre selected method of authentication step . Of course any other authorization method can be the user s pre selected method of authorization depending on the user s needs. In this way the system prompts the user to input data into the system in connection with the user s pre set authorization method step . For example the system prompts the user with a dialog box which requests that the user utilizes the smart card and PIN authentication method to authenticate the user step . Since the user authentication method is the smart card and PIN a check is made to determine whether the user has a correct version of the smart card reader software step . If the user does not have the correct version of the smart card reader software then the user may download upgraded software step . Optionally the user may decline to download the upgraded software step . However in this exemplary embodiment of the present invention the user downloads the upgraded software in order to continue step . Of course the system need not be configured to require the user to download the upgraded software a different version of the software may optionally be used and the system may be configured to accommodate different versions of the software. If the user has the correct version of the smart card reader software or if the system can operate with previous versions then a check is made to determine whether a smart card is present in the smart card reader step .

The system accepts data from the user wherein the data is associated with the user s pre set authorization method step . For example if a smart card is present in the smart card reader in step then the user is prompted to input a PIN step . The system verifies the user s data which was input into the system in accordance with the pre set authorization method steps . For example when the user inputs a PIN then a check is made to determine whether the user has a digital certificate e.g. X.509 format associated with the user s registration e.g. a user Internet account step . If the user does not have a digital certificate associated with the user s registration then the smart card may be optionally registered to the user s registration step . If the user has a digital certificate associated with the user s registration then a check is made to determine whether the smart card with the digital certificate is active step . If the smart card with the digital certificate is active then the requested restricted service is accessed e.g. web page displayed step . On the other hand if the smart card with the digital certificate is not active then the user cannot access the restricted service e.g. a message to contact customer service is displayed on a web page step .

If there is no smart card in the smart card reader at step then the user is prompted to insert a smart card into the smart card reader step . At this point the user either inserts a smart card or cancels the original request to use the smart card and PIN authentication method step . If the smart card is inserted at step then another check is made to determine whether a smart card is present in the smart card reader step and the process continues as described above. If on the other hand the user cancels the original request to use the smart card and PIN authentication method then the user does not continue e.g. the user receives a message indicating that the smart card and PIN authentication method must be used step . If the user cancels the original request to use the authentication method then the system returns to step to determine the user s predetermined method of authentication.

The method illustrated in assumes that the smart card and PIN authentication method is the user s pre selected method of authentication for all restricted services or access. However in another exemplary embodiment of the present invention illustrated in the user may also select an authentication method based on a particular service such that the user s pre set authentication method is different for various restricted services or access for different times of day days of the year and or the like. In such an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the user may access an authentication maintenance page step . The user may choose an authentication method for each restricted service or access step . In this way one restricted service may be accessed via for example the user password and PIN authentication method while another restricted service may be accessed via for example the smart card and PIN authentication method. Any authentication method may be selected for any restricted service or access depending on the needs of the user. The user s profile including the authentication method chosen for each restricted service or access may be displayed so that the user may select changes to the authentication method s for each restricted service or access steps and . If the user chooses not to make changes to the authentication method s then the user returns to the authentication maintenance page in step . If the user however chooses to make changes to the authentication method s then the changes are submitted for processing by the system step . The user then returns to the authentication maintenance page in step .

In addition the various authentication methods may be configured to operate based on a predetermined hierarchy or based upon multiple authentication routines. For example the user may configure some services which require the smart card and PIN authentication method to also allow access when the user utilizes the identification and PIN authentication method. However the user identification and PIN authentication method will not provide access to all services which require the smart card and PIN authentication method. In such an exemplary embodiment the smart card and PIN authentication method is a higher level on the hierarchy compared to the user identification and PIN authentication method. Any authentication method may be used and may be assigned any desired level of hierarchy depending on the needs of the user.

Furthermore if the user loses the data or information needed to access a pre selected authentication method e.g. the user forgets the user identification and or password loses the smart card and or the like then the system may be configured to allow the user to change the pre selected authentication method without accessing the restricted service. For example if the pre selected authentication method is smart card and PIN authentication and the user loses her smart card and or forgets the PIN then the user may be allowed with certain identification and or restrictions to change the pre selected authentication method to another method e.g. user identification and password without accessing the restricted service. In this way the user will have the option to change the authentication method and gain access instead of losing the opportunity to gain access due to a problem with using the pre selected authentication method . For example a hierarchy may be set up such that the user may change the authentication method and gain access by providing a user identification password and other information. Any hierarchy may be configured in order to aid the user in changing the authentication method in order to gain access.

An authentication system in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in . Authentication system includes browser web server an application server a security server one or more communication channels and one or more database servers . Browser passes input field values e.g. using hops to web server . As such browser submits data to web server and web server sends the data to application server and or security server . Data from the application server may be stored in and retrieved from one or more database servers . Data from the security server may be stored in and retrieved from one or more database servers . Browser web server application server security server and or one or more database servers may transmit the data to each other in XML format for example via one or more communication channels . Each of browser web server application server security server and or one or more database servers may transfer the data and or receive data using https and an XML format.

In such an exemplary embodiment authentication system includes a browser e.g. a user which submits data to a web server e.g. one or more host servers a network and or the like . Browser may be a client computer e.g. a machine containing interface software used by the user. Browser may include PC MAC cell phone PDA kiosk and or the like containing internet browser software and or network user interface software. Web server may include a data center such as a centralized server with remote fail over a distributed data center patterned after a Web Services model one or more servers configured to receive and respond to requests from browser e.g. mircocomputer s mainframe and or the like. Communication between browser and web server may be via one or more communication channels e.g. an internet service provider a network e.g. internet intranet extranet wireless VPN Blue Tooth LAN WAN a network interface between a published external access point and a web server and or any other means of communication One or more communication channels may include internal server communication channels that carry data from a port to web server e.g. an interprocess communication IPC channel .

In this manner browser may submit the user s authentication method selection information to web server . Web server may also include web server processes e.g. programs that receive and respond to requests such as CGIs Java Servlets JSP ASP Web server processes may communicate with static content e.g. text graphics sound files video and or the like using HTML WML MIME defined files and or the like via one or more communication channels e.g. operating system supported file read on static content data retrieval from a datastore and or the like . Web server processes may also communicate with application data request handler e.g. Java Servlets services daemon processes linked libraries and or the like to receive and process requests for application often dynamic data. In addition web server processes may communicate with security data request handler e.g. Java Servlets services daemon processes linked libraries and or the like to receive and process requests for authentication and authorization data.

Web server may also communicate with security server having security data request handler security business logic and data request handler . Security server can authenticate users and authorize transaction requests. Security server may be a microcomputer a mainframe and or the like. Security data request handler may receive and process requests for authentication and authorization from security data request handler via one or more communication channels . Security data request handler may use Java Servlets services daemon processes and or the like. Security business logic processes authentication and authorization requests by requesting data from one or more database servers . Security business logic processes the requests based on established rules and returns the request results to security data request handler . Security business logic may use Java Servlets or programs linked libraries and or the like. Data request handler receives and processes requests for data from one or more database servers . Similar to security data request handler data request handler may use Java Servlets services daemon processes and or the like. Data request handler may communicate with one or more database servers via one or more communication channels using JDBC CICS LU6.2 socket and or the like. One or more database servers may be one or more relational databases hierarchical databases flat files LDAP and or the like. Further one or more database servers may be security data stores e.g. any data stored to support the security rules.

Web server may further communicate with application server e.g. one or more servers configured to receive and respond to requests for data from web server such as a microcomputer a mainframe and or the like via one or more communication channels . For example once security server indicates that authentication method is valid then web server may further communicate with application server . One or more communication channels can use sockets CORBA RML MQSeries messaging protocol e.g. XML ASN proprietary and or the like. For example application server may receive data from web server retrieve data from one or more database servers process defined business logic routines and return data to web server .

Application server may include application data request handler application business logic and data request handler . Data request handler receives and processes requests for application often dynamic data from application data request handler . Application data request handler communicates with web server via one or more communication channels . Application data request handler may include Java Servlets services daemon processes and or the like.

Application server may also include application business logic to initiate data requests from one or more database servers manipulate the retrieved data as defined by established rules and return data to application data request handler . Application business logic may communicate with application data request handler via one or more communication channels e.g. an interprocess communication channel . Application business logic may include Java Servlets or programs linked libraries and or the like.

Application business logic may also communicate with data request handler to receive and process requests from application business logic for data from one or more database servers . Communication between data request handler and application business logic may use one or more communication channels e.g. an interprocess communication channel . Communication between data request handler and one or more database servers may also use one or more communication channels e.g. JDBC CICS LU6.2 socket and or the like . Data request handler may include Java Servlets services daemon processes and or the like. Database servers may include systems of record data stores e.g. relational databases hierarchical databases flat files. LDAP and or the like .

Application server may also communicate with external partner stores via one or more communication channels where external partner stores store data. External partner stores may include relational databases hierarchical databases flat files LDAP and or the like. Security server and external partner stores may communicate via a third party network e.g. SSL internet intranet extranet VPN T1 and or the like . One or more communication channels between third party network and external partner stores may be a network interface that provides an interface between a published external access point and external partner stores such as multiple interfaces when external partner stores is distributed across hosting facilities.

Thus authentication system provides a system for selecting at least one authentication method for accessing a restricted service. The user and authentication system may use any suitable communication means e.g. one or more communication channels to communicate e.g. exchange data . One or more communication channels may be any type of communication means which provides any form of communication between the various elements e.g. between browser web server application server security server one or more database servers third party network and or external partner stores . It will be appreciated that many applications of the present invention could be formulated. One skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more communication channels may include any system for exchanging data or transacting business such as any hardware and or software communication medium e.g. telephone modem digital subscriber line a global computer network a wired link a wireless link any utility link the Internet an intranet an extranet WAN LAN satellite communications and or the like. It is noted that one or more communication channels may be implemented as any type of network such as open network secured network an interactive television ITV network. Furthermore one or more communication channels may be one network or multiple independent networks. The invention could be used in conjunction with any type of personal computer network computer workstation minicomputer mainframe or the like running any operating system such as any version of Windows Windows NT Windows2000 Windows 98 Windows 95 MacOS OS 2 BeOS Linux UNIX or the like.

Authentication method system communicates with one or more users by transmitting transferring or otherwise communicating with the user s via one or more communication channels . The computing units used by the user the system e.g. authentication method system and or the like may be connected with each other via one or more communication channels e.g. a data communication network . The network may be a public network and assumed to be insecure and open to eavesdroppers. In the illustrated implementation the network may be embodied as the Internet. In this context the computers may or may not be connected to the Internet at all times. For instance the user computer may employ a modem to occasionally connect to the Internet whereas the system s computing center might maintain a permanent connection to the Internet. Various systems and servers are suitably coupled to the network via data links. A variety of conventional communications media and protocols may be used for data links. For example a connection to an Internet Service Provider ISP over the local loop is typically used in connection with standard modem communication cable modem Dish networks ISDN Digital Subscriber Line DSL or various wireless communication methods. The various systems might also reside within a local area network LAN which interfaces to the network via a leased line T1 D3 etc. . Such communication methods are well known in the art and are covered in a variety of standard texts. See e.g. GILBERT HELD UNDERSTANDING DATA COMMUNICATIONS 1996 hereby incorporated by reference.

The system e.g. authentication method system may communicate the data to the user using at least one protocol in at least one format. For example the system may configure the data in a format and communicate the data to the user using a protocol e.g. using https and XML . In one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the system and the user may have a predetermined protocol and format in order to facilitate the communication of the data between them.

Exemplary protocols include hyper text transfer protocol http secured hyper text transfer protocol https file transfer protocol secure electronic mail a network remote method invocation distributed component object model enterprise Java bean and or socket communication. One embodiment of the present invention may be implemented with TCP IP communications protocols IPX Appletalk IP 6 NetBIOS OSI or any number of existing or future protocols. For a basic introduction of cryptography please review a text written by Bruce Schneier which is entitled Applied Cryptography Protocols Algorithms And Source Code In C published by John Wiley Sons second edition 1996 which is hereby incorporated by reference. Specific information related to the protocols standards and application software utilized in connection with the Internet may not be discussed herein. For further information regarding such details see for example DILIP NAIK INTERNET STANDARDS AND PROTOCOLS 1998 JAVA 2 COMPLETE various authors Sybex 1999 DEBORAH RAY AND ERIC RAY MASTERING HTML 4.0 1997 . LOSHIN TCP IP CLEARLY EXPLAINED 1997 . All of these texts are hereby incorporated by reference.

Exemplary formats include extensible markup language XML name value pair any custom format any industry standard format and or the like. For example XML is a markup language for documents including structured information. Structured information includes content e.g. words pictures and or the like and some indication of the type of content e.g. heading footnote figure database table etc. . In this manner a markup language can identify structures in a document e.g. by adding markup to the document . Documents include for example traditional documents vector graphics electronic commerce transactions mathematical equations object meta data server Application Programming Interfaces and or the like. The XML language e.g. XML schemas may describe and constrain the content of XML documents.

In order to further describe the present invention the following provides further exemplary embodiments for the various elements of the present invention. Association of certain data may be accomplished through any data association technique known and practiced in the art. For example the association may be accomplished either manually or automatically. Automatic association techniques may include for example a database search a database merge GREP AGREP SQL and or the like. The association step may be accomplished by a database merge function for example using a key field in data tables. A key field partitions the database according to the high level class of objects defined by the key field. For example a certain class may be designated as a key field in both the first data table and the second data table and the two data tables may then be merged on the basis of the class data in the key field. In this exemplary embodiment the data corresponding to the key field in each of the merged data tables is preferably the same. However data tables having similar though not identical data in the key fields may also be merged by using AGREP for example. Also the association of XML data is done using Document Type Definition DTD and schemas.

Communication between the various entities and the system of the present invention is accomplished through any suitable communication means such as for example a telephone network Intranet Internet point of interaction device smart card system point of sale device personal digital assistant cellular phone kiosk etc. online communications off line communications wireless communications and or the like. One skilled in the art will also appreciate that for security reasons any databases systems or components of the present invention may consist of any combination of databases or components at a single location or at multiple locations wherein each database or system includes any of various suitable security features such as firewalls access codes encryption de encryption compression decompression and or the like.

Each entity may use a computing system to facilitate online commerce transactions. The user may use a computing unit in the form of a personal computer although other types of computing units may be used including laptops notebooks hand held computers set top boxes and the like. Authentication method system may use a computing unit implemented in the form of a computer server a computing center e.g. a main frame computer a mini computer a PC server a network set of computers and or the like.

Optionally a user computing unit an authentication method system computing system and or the like may be interconnected via a second network such as a payment network. The payment network represents existing proprietary networks that presently accommodate transactions for credit cards debit cards and other types of financial banking cards. The payment network is a closed network that is assumed to be secure from eavesdroppers. Examples of the payment network include the American Express VisaNet and the Veriphone network.

Thus the present invention provides methods and apparatus for enabling a user to select one or more authentication methods for accessing a restricted service or location making ea purchases and or otherwise transacting in a secure environment. The present invention registers the user s pre selected method of authentication so that the user may set a minimum level of security for gaining access to a restricted service for example. In this way the user may determine the authentication method for its own login.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However it will be appreciated that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims below. The specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative manner rather than a restrictive one and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of present invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be determined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents rather than by the examples given above. For example the steps recited in any of the method or process claims may be executed in any order and are not limited to the order presented in the claims.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as critical required or essential features or elements of any or all the claims. As used herein the terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further no element described herein is required for the practice of the invention unless expressly described as essential or critical .

