---

title: Mobile data import for a financial return
abstract: A method for obtaining financial data for use in a financial return of a tax paying entity, including: obtaining credentials of the tax paying entity; determining, by a computer processor, that the financial data is available for download from a data provider; sending a first text message to a mobile device of the tax paying entity indicating that the financial data is available for download; receiving, from the mobile device, a second text message requesting to import the financial data into the financial return; sending, to the data provider, a request to download the financial data, where the request includes the credentials; downloading, after sending the request, the financial data into a data repository; and sending, after downloading the financial data, the financial data to a tax preparation application, where the financial data is imported by the tax preparation application into the financial return.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08744948&OS=08744948&RS=08744948
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 08744948
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120111
---
For consumers and businesses alike tax preparation and compliance can be time consuming and difficult. Tax paying entities are required to aggregate large and sometimes disparate sets of financial data and to perform numerous error prone calculations. Periodic preparation of financial returns manual data entry and record keeping also require significant resources and are prone to significant risk.

Tax preparation and financial management software can help to mitigate some but not all of this risk. Tax preparation software for example automatically performs many of the complex financial calculations required to complete a tax form. Additionally financial software can electronically file some documents with the appropriate government agency and save electronic copies of the documents in a database on a user s personal computer.

Modern computing devices have become an indispensible tool of the average consumer. Many consumers now use a personal computing device such as a laptop to perform a variety of financial management tasks online. More recently mobile devices have become an extremely disruptive force in the realm of finance. Mobile devices such as smartphones and tablet computers provide location based services and real time connectivity. Thus a user may check the value of a financial portfolio purchase a sale item on a favorite website or search for a nearby merchant location without being tethered to a WIFI connection or a particular location.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for obtaining financial data for use in a financial return of a tax paying entity. The method includes obtaining credentials of the tax paying entity determining by a computer processor that the financial data is available for download from a data provider sending by the computer processor a first text message to a mobile device of the tax paying entity indicating that the financial data is available for download receiving from the mobile device a second text message requesting to import the financial data into the financial return sending to the data provider a request to download the financial data wherein the request includes the credentials downloading after sending the request the financial data into a data repository and sending after downloading the financial data the financial data to a tax preparation application wherein the financial data is imported by the tax preparation application into the financial return.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a system for obtaining financial data for use in a financial return of a tax paying entity. The system includes a processor a data repository configured to store the financial data and a data import engine executing on the processor and configured to obtain credentials of the tax paying entity determine that the financial data is available for download from a data provider send a first text message to a mobile device of the tax paying entity indicating that the financial data is available for download receive from the mobile device a second text message requesting to import the financial data into the financial return send to the data provider a request to download the financial data wherein the request includes the credentials download after sending the request the financial data into the data repository and send after downloading the financial data the financial data to a tax preparation application wherein the financial data is imported by the tax preparation application into the financial return.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions for obtaining financial data for use in a financial return of a tax paying entity. The instructions include functionality to obtain credentials of the tax paying entity determine that the financial data is available for download from a data provider send a first text message to a mobile device of the tax paying entity indicating that the financial data is available for download receive from the mobile device a second text message requesting to import the financial data into the financial return send to the data provider a request to download the financial data wherein the request includes the credentials download after sending the request the financial data into a data repository and send after downloading the financial data the financial data to a tax preparation application wherein the financial data is imported by the tax preparation application into the financial return.

Other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Specific embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description.

In general embodiments of the invention provide a method and system for obtaining financial data for use in a financial return of a tax paying entity. In general embodiments of the invention determine that the financial data is available for download from a data provider. A notification such as a text message may then be sent to a mobile device notifying the tax paying entity that the financial data is available. The financial data may be downloaded from the data provider and used to prepare the financial return.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine is a software application or a set of software applications executing on one or more hardware processors. The software application may be a web application in a server of a data center and or a cloud computing application in a network distributed system. Alternatively the data import engine may be a software application residing in a standalone computing device e.g. a desktop computer etc. . In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine is integrated within or operatively connected to the tax preparation application a financial management application FMA or other type of application.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to receive a request to download financial data of a tax paying entity from a data provider . Financial data may include but is not limited to investment data income data wage income data interest income data tax form data e.g. internal revenue service IRS 1098 1099 W 2 data expense data charitable contribution data healthcare payment information sales tax payments property tax data vehicle registration rebate qualification divorce records previous tax filings and or any other financial data which may be utilized in the filing of a financial return. The request may be received from the tax preparation application a third party software application or from another person or entity. The request may be received prior to the filing of a financial return and may be received prior to the end of a tax period for which the financial return is filed. Thus for example a corporation may submit requests for financial data for the 2012 tax year from three different data providers. The first request is received in the 2011 tax year and the subsequent two requests are received before the end of the 2012 tax year and prior to initiating a financial return for the 2012 tax year. Thus a request to receive financial data from a data provider may be received at any time prior to during and or after filing of the financial return in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the tax paying entity is a person or entity e.g. corporation business partnership non profit organization etc. who files a financial return with an agency e.g. a government agency . The tax paying entity may be required to pay taxes or may receive a refund of an overpayment of taxes in reply to filing the financial return.

In one or more embodiments of the invention a data provider is any entity capable of providing financial data used in the preparation of a financial return of the tax paying entity. Examples of a data provider may include but are not limited to a financial institution a payroll provider a government agency a healthcare provider a vendor or service provider of the tax paying entity and or a non profit organization. In one example a lender holding a mortgage note on a property of an individual tax payer generates a form detailing an amount of mortgage interest paid during a specified tax year. In this example the form is required by the individual tax payer to complete a personal income tax return. In another example a payroll provider of a small business generates a report containing relevant payroll tax withholdings data for the small business. In this example the payroll tax withholdings data is required to complete a federal income tax return for the small business. In yet another example a local county tax assessor s office records all sales and property tax records for properties owned by a taxpayer. The taxpayer requires the data contained in the sales and property tax records in order to correctly calculate income depreciation and deductions on a personal income tax return.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes a user interface not shown configured to obtain input from one or more users. A user may be the tax paying entity or a representative of the tax paying entity. The user may be redirected from the tax preparation application to the user interface and or may access the user interface directly using a web browser. The user interface may be configured to update a profile of the tax paying entity to enter contact or personal information e.g. a mobile phone number etc to request data from one or more data providers and or to modify one or more download preferences e.g. timing selection of data providers etc .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to obtain one or more credentials of the tax paying entity. The data import engine may obtain the credentials directly from the tax paying entity by a user interface. The user interface may be integrated within or communicatively coupled to the tax preparation application or an associated application or may be displayed directly by the data import engine via a web browser. In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine is configured to receive user credentials of the tax paying entity for a financial management application FMA . The data import engine may access the FMA and may obtain one or more credentials for one or more data providers from the FMA. In this way the user is not required to provide credentials to individual data providers if they are already stored in the FMA.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to determine that the financial data is available for download from one or more data providers. In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine polls one or more applications of identified data providers on a periodic or ad hoc basis. By polling the applications the data import engine may be able to determine if financial data is available and may then submit a request to download available data from the appropriate data providers. In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine initially requests data from one or more data providers . If the data is not yet available the data import engine may be configured to receive notifications from the data provider s indicating that the data is available for download at a future time. In this way the data import engine may be configured to identify available data over any length of time prior to during and or after filing of a financial return.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to send a text message to the mobile device indicating that the financial data is available for download. The text message may include one or more selectable or described options. For example the text message may request that the user reply to the message with another text message indicating a choice of Y to proceed with importing financial data or a choice of N to decline the request to import financial data. In another example the user of the mobile device may respond with one or more alphanumeric characters to select specific data providers to download from. In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine automatically downloads all available data from the data provider. In this case the text message may simply inform the tax paying entity that the data has been downloaded from the data provider and or is available for import into the tax preparation application . The mobile device may be any mobile computing device used by the tax paying entity a representative of the tax paying entity or a third party conveying information to the tax paying entity.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes one or more dedicated text messaging addresses and or phone numbers. Thus the data import engine may send text messages from the address es or phone number s and may receive reply text messages addressed to the address es or phone number s . The data import engine may be configured to interface with one or more mobile or cellular service providers in order to send receive text messages.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to call the mobile device using an interactive voice response IVR system. The data import engine may then play a recording of the text message to the tax paying entity or representative thereof using the mobile device . In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine is configured to receive one or more touch tone selections using the IVR system. Thus the data import engine may audibly recite a series of menu options to the user e.g. to download financial data from one or more data providers and may receive a corresponding selection from the user e.g. requesting to download all available data requesting to download data from specific data provider s .

A text message is any format or type of message capable of being received by a mobile device. Examples of a text message may include but are not limited to an electronic mail message a short message service SMS message a push notification sent to a mobile device a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP message a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS message and an application specific message. Any message passing protocol may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

The mobile device may include input means and output means such as the keyboard the receiver and or the display device e.g. a liquid crystal display screen which permits a user to enter and or display keystrokes including numeric alphabetic and other characters images or other media types. Other input devices may include a camera a sound recorder and or other data recording mechanism. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that these input and output means may take other forms now known or later developed.

The mobile device may be connected to a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network via the antenna or other network interface connection s not shown . In one or more embodiments of the invention the network connection may be facilitated by a wireless infrastructure not shown including one or more transceivers cooperating to facilitate wireless communications to wireless devices. The wireless infrastructure may include one or more routers switches microwave links base stations optical fibers or other similar networking hardware or software components. For example the wireless infrastructure may be a paging network a cellular network etc. In one or more embodiments of the invention the wireless infrastructure may associate any message received from a mobile device with a mobile device identifier of the mobile device .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the network connection may be facilitated by a hardwired or other similar connection. For example the network connection may involve a hardwire connection or short range wireless connectivity technology with a second mobile device a printing mechanism a scanner or a recording system.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the GPS receiver includes functionality to obtain a location coordinate of the mobile device . In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile device includes functionality to send using the GPS receiver location coordinates to the data import engine in . The location coordinates may be sent over a predefined period of time and may be sent at predefined intervals e.g. by a mobile application not shown . Alternatively the mobile application may be configured to communicate the location coordinate s to the data import engine in in response to a request.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile device includes functionality to receive input from the tax paying entity or a representative of the tax paying entity. The mobile device may display the text message to a user e.g. the tax paying entity and may receive selection of a hyperlink or other option to respond to a first text message received from the data import engine in . In response to selection of the hyperlink the mobile device may send a notification to download financial data from a data provider to the data import engine in . In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile device is configured to send a reply text message in response to the first text message. The reply text message may include a selection of one or more data providers in from which to download financial data.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the mobile device includes functionality to execute a mobile application not shown . The mobile application may be configured to receive one or more push notifications from the data import engine in . A push notification may be used to notify the user of the mobile device e.g. the tax paying entity that data is available for download from one or more data providers.

Returning to in one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to receive a text message from the mobile device . The text message may be in reply to an original text message sent by the data import engine and may include a selection by the user to download financial data from one or more data providers . Thus the user may respond with an approval or denial of the request to download data and or may include one or more options specifying specific data providers or data to include exclude from the download. Any type of messaging protocol may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to send a request to one or more data providers to download financial data. The data import engine may be configured to send the request to a server application of the data provider and may include one or more predefined credentials authenticating the data import engine and or the tax paying entity. The data import engine may also encrypt the request and or send the request over a secure channel. The request may include data identifying the tax paying entity e.g. name social security number tax ID number address etc. a digital signature or similar form of authentication a date range or filing period for which is data is requested and or a selection of one or more types of data. The request may be sent to an application programming interface API of the server application and may utilize any number of predefined commands to specify the data being requested. In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine does not send a request for the data and instead the data is either pushed by the data provider or identified by the data import engine using polling or some other method.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to download financial data from one or more data providers . After authenticating the request the data import engine may receive the financial data in any number of file formats. For example the data may be downloaded from a file transfer protocol FTP server using credentials provided by the data provider. In another example the data is downloaded using hypertext transfer protocol HTTP messages sent to a web server.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to send financial data downloaded from one or more data providers to the tax preparation application . The data import engine may send a notification that the data is ready to the tax preparation application . Upon receiving the notification and or upon approval of the tax paying entity the tax preparation application may proceed to download the financial data from the data repository . Alternatively the financial data may be stored in a common location e.g. data repository used by both the tax preparation application and the data import engine such that no download is necessary. In one or more embodiments of the invention the financial data is imported into the tax preparation application to be used in one or more financial returns of one or more tax paying entities.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to receive one or more location coordinates from the mobile device . The data import engine may be configured to request the location coordinates and or to periodically receive them from a mobile application of the mobile device . In one or more embodiments of the invention the location coordinates correspond to a periodic action or movement of the tax paying entity and are within a predefined distance of an address of one or more data providers .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to determine that an address of a data provider is within a predefined distance of the one or more location coordinates. The data import engine may be configured to receive the predefined distance from a user or administrator. After obtaining the location coordinate s from the mobile device the data import engine may calculate a distance between the address of the data provider and the location depicted by the coordinate s . Based on the calculation the data import engine may determine whether or not the address lies within the predefined distance of the location coordinate s . In one or more embodiments of the invention after determining that the address is within the predefined distance the data import engine sends a message to the tax paying entity. The message may ask the tax paying entity or a representative whether or not financial data should be requested from the data provider by the data import engine .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to identify a data provider on a social networking website not shown . The data import engine may access a profile of the tax paying entity on the social networking website and may search the profile for a reference to one or more data providers . For example the tax paying entity may identify a business relationship with the data provider on the profile. In another example the tax paying entity may subscribe or recommend the data provider or one or more products or services of the data provider. In yet another example the tax paying entity may like or otherwise express a positive sentiment towards the data provider on the social networking website.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to periodically download financial data from one or more data providers . The financial data may be a bulk download of all financial data for all tax paying entities involved with the data provider or may include only data relevant to tax paying entities whose authorization is received by the data import engine and provided to the data provider. In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine downloads and aggregates this financial data in the data repository prior to or after receiving any requests from the tax paying entity. Thus the download may occur in accordance with a pre existing agreement to share data between the data provider and an entity hosting the data import engine . After downloading the financial data the data import engine may identify and retrieve financial data of a single tax paying entity from the data repository .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to receive a request e.g. a text message from the tax paying entity for an estimated tax withholding amount. In response to the request the data import engine may calculate a projected tax liability of the tax paying entity. Based on the projected tax liability the data import engine may then calculate the estimated tax withholding amount and may send the estimated tax withholding amount to the tax paying entity e.g. by sending a text message to the mobile device .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes an application programming interface API . The API may provide functionality to one or more authorized data providers i.e. software applications used by the data providers to push financial data to the data import engine as it becomes available. Thus the data import engine may send requests for financial data to one or more data providers and may subsequently receive data periodically via the API as it becomes available i.e. when the data is pushed by the data provider s . Thus in one or more embodiments of the invention partial data is submitted from a single provider as it becomes available.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to access a web application not shown of a data provider using credentials of the tax paying entity. The data import engine may download financial data from the web application using one or more interfaces provided by the web application. In one example the data import engine scrapes the financial data from a profile of the tax paying entity on a website of the data provider. In another example the data import engine uses a predefined template to navigate the web application or a server application of the data provider. Based on the template the data import engine may send one or more requests for data or may scrape the data according to one or more locations application programming interfaces APIs storage locations and or credentials identified by the template. In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to update the template based on usage data. Thus if a predefined number of tax paying entities flag a template as being inaccurate or outdated the data import engine may modify the template accordingly e.g. to point to a new web page storage location etc. . The data import engine may be configured to detect a broken connection and to request corrected data from the user and or data provider accordingly.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to communicate with a financial management application FMA not shown used by the tax paying entity. The FMA may include functionality to detect a financial transaction corresponding to a potential deduction on the financial return of the tax paying entity. The FMA may be configured to determine that the tax paying entity may qualify for a tax deduction and to automatically assign the financial transaction to a deduction category. In one or more embodiments of the invention the FMA is configured to identify one or more data providers based on transactions in a financial account of the tax paying entity. For example the FMA may identify one or more payments to a charitable organization hospital or government agency. Thus the FMA may send the identified data provider s to the data import engine for subsequent downloading of financial data.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to identify a government agency i.e. data provider associated with the tax deduction. The data import engine may then request credentials for the government agency from the tax paying entity and or request financial data required for claiming the deduction from the government agency . In one or more embodiments of the invention the FMA the data import engine and or the tax preparation application are operatively connected and are configured to provide a seamless user experience using one or more common or connected user interfaces.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine includes functionality to identify one or more previously filed financial returns of the tax paying entity. The data import engine may identify one or more data providers in the previously filed returns and may ask the tax paying entity if they wish to import financial data for a current financial return from the identified data providers . In one or more embodiments of the invention the data import engine requests credentials corresponding to the identified data providers from the tax paying entity and or sends a request for the required data to the data providers .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the tax preparation application is a software application or a set of software applications executing on one or more hardware processors. The tax preparation application may be a web application in a server of a data center and or a cloud computing application in a network distributed system. Alternatively the tax preparation application may be a software application residing in a personal computing device e.g. smartphone laptop computer desktop computer etc. of a user. In one or more embodiments of the invention the tax preparation application is integrated within or operatively connected to the data import engine a financial management application FMA or other type of application.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the tax preparation application includes functionality to import financial data received from the data import engine into a financial return of the tax paying entity. The financial data may be used in a worksheet to calculate one or more values entered into the financial return or may be directly entered into one or more fields of the financial return. For example mortgage interest information obtained from a lender may be added to one or more other deductions prior to being entered on a personal income tax return.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the tax preparation application includes functionality to generate a request to download financial data from one or more data providers . The tax preparation application may have one or more user interfaces configured to receive input from a user e.g. the tax paying entity . In one or more embodiments of the invention the tax preparation application includes functionality to identify financial data required for completion of the financial return. The user interface may allow users to request the required financial data from one or more data providers .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the data repository is a database or storage application residing on one or more servers. For example the data repository may be a distributed database management system DBMS or a component thereof a clustered database a standalone flat file and or any storage software residing on one or more physical storage devices. Examples of a storage device may include but are not limited to a hard disk drive a tape drive and or a solid state drive or memory device. Any type of database or storage application can be used in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

In STEP in one or more embodiments of the invention one or more credentials of the tax paying entity are obtained prior to filing a financial return of the tax paying entity. The credentials may be obtained at any time prior to filing or initiating a new financial return of the tax paying entity. For example a tax paying entity may register a new account with a data import engine e.g. data import engine of discussed above and may enter identifying information one or more data providers and or the aforementioned credentials into a user interface of the data import engine prior to the beginning of a tax filing period.

In STEP in one or more embodiments of the invention it is determined that financial data is available for download from a data provider. The data provider may provide data periodically e.g. upon availability or only once for a given tax filing period. Any method of determining the availability of the financial data may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. For example the data provider may be polled periodically or the data provider may push the data to a data import engine e.g. data import engine of discussed above upon availability.

In STEP in one or more embodiments of the invention a first text message is sent to a mobile device of the tax paying entity. The first text message indicates that the financial data is available for download. The text message may be sent immediately upon determining that the financial data is available for download or may be sent periodically. In one or more embodiments of the invention the text message may include an indication of any number of data providers from which financial data is available. The text message may be sent at any time before during or after filing of the financial return in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. In one or more embodiments of the invention if the financial data is required after the filing of the financial return the tax paying entity may elect to file an amendment to the financial return.

In STEP in one or more embodiments of the invention a second text message requesting to download the financial data into the financial return is received from the mobile device. The user of the mobile device i.e. the tax paying entity or a representative of the tax paying entity may read the first text message and elect to either download the financial data reject the proposal to download the financial data or do nothing. If the user elects to download the financial data the user may initiate the second text message using a user interface of the mobile device. The second text message may include a selection of one or more options presented to the user in the first text message e.g. selection of a data provider or specific data .

In STEP in one or more embodiments of the invention a request to download the financial data is sent to the data provider. The request may include the credentials identifying information of the tax paying entity a tax filing period and or any other relevant information required by the data provider. STEP may not be performed if the data is made available automatically e.g. in an FTP repository .

In STEP in one or more embodiments of the invention the financial data is downloaded into a data repository after sending the request. Any method of notification may be used to indicate that the data is available for download. For example either a push or pull notification may be used to initiate the download of data into the tax preparation application .

In STEP in one or more embodiments of the invention the financial data is sent to a tax preparation application after being downloaded. The financial data is then imported by the tax preparation application into the financial return.

The following section describes various examples of the invention. The examples are included to aid in the understanding of the invention but are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

In this example an individual taxpayer Paul Schmidt is employed by XYZ Computer Repair Inc. hereinafter XYZ during the 2008 tax year. Paul provides his personal information and selects an income tax withholding amount upon beginning employment with XYZ sometime before 2008 STEP .

Continuing the example during 2008 Paul accesses the tax preparation application and creates an account by providing his personal information STEP . The tax preparation application provides Paul s personal information to a data import engine immediately thereafter STEP . Upon determining that Paul is employed by XYZ the data import engine identifies a payroll provider of XYZ in a data repository containing hundreds of employer payroll records. Furthermore the data import engine obtains a previously filed tax return of Paul from a tax preparation repository. In the previously filed return the data import engine identifies two financial institutions holding investment and interest bearing accounts and a home mortgage interest deduction for a home owned by Paul. Thus a total of four data providers are identified i.e. a payroll provider two financial institutions and a lender .

Continuing the example the data import engine sends a request to each data provider requesting financial data relevant to Paul Schmidt STEP . The request includes identifying personal information as well as parameters identifying the 2008 tax year. In the coming months throughout 2008 and the early part of 2009 the data providers provide the requested financial data as it becomes available STEP . Some data providers provide the data at one time while others provide it in smaller segments over time. Each time data is made available by a data provider the data import engine sends a short message service SMS text message to Paul s mobile device indicating that the data is available for download STEP . depicts an example screenshot of Paul s mobile device showing an SMS message. The SMS message depicted by this screenshot indicates that financial data is available for download from Fast Payroll Services i.e. the payroll provider of XYZ .

Continuing the example Paul responds to each SMS message by sending a reply SMS message to the data import engine STEP . In the reply SMS message Paul includes a Y character indicating that he wishes to download the available financial data.

Continuing the example after downloading all available data from the data providers Paul initiates another session with the tax preparation application in order to initiate creation of a personal income tax return for the 2008 tax year STEP . Upon launching the tax preparation application accesses the data import engine and determines that data is available from four data providers STEP . The tax preparation application then displays an interface showing each data provider from which data was downloaded for Paul. depicts an example screenshot of the tax preparation application displaying the data providers. The interface prompts Paul to import the financial data from the various data providers into his 2008 personal income tax return.

Continuing the example Paul selects the option to import all available data for each of the four data providers . The tax preparation application then imports STEP the available data into Paul s personal income tax return and proceeds to ready the tax return for filing. Upon completing the import the tax preparation application notifies Paul that the data was imported successfully STEP and proceeds to file his tax return with the internal revenue service IRS .

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented on virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used. For example as shown in a computer system includes one or more processor s such as a central processing unit CPU integrated circuit hardware processor etc. associated memory e.g. RAM cache memory flash memory etc. a storage device e.g. a hard disk an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk DVD drive a flash memory stick etc. and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . The computer system may also include input means such as a keyboard a mouse or a microphone not shown . Further the computer system may include output means such as a monitor e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display or cathode ray tube CRT monitor . The computer system may be connected to a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other type of network via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice embodiments of the invention.

Further in one or more embodiments of the invention one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further embodiments of the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention e.g. data import engine data repository tax preparation application etc. of discussed above may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment of the invention the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor or micro core of a processor with shared memory and or resources. Further software instructions in the form of computer readable program code to perform embodiments of the invention may be stored temporarily or permanently on a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as a compact disc CD a diskette a tape memory or any other tangible computer readable storage device.

One or more embodiments of the invention have one or more of the following advantages. By notifying a tax entity that financial data is available for download from one or more data providers prior to preparation and or filing of a financial return it may be possible to reduce the preparation time of the financial return.

By sending a text message notifying a tax paying entity that financial data required in the filing of a financial return is available for download it may be possible to aggregate required financial data with reduced effort on the part of the tax paying entity. Furthermore the amount of time spent by the tax paying entity per session with a tax preparation application may be reduced.

By receiving a text message from a tax paying entity indicating that financial data should be downloaded from a data provider it may be possible to aggregate required financial data with reduced effort on the part of the tax paying entity.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

