---

title: Provision of location-based business information
abstract: Location-based searches for venues for a mobile computing device. An application server system may determine search results in response to a search query, comprising a search location, received from the mobile computing device. The application server system determines, for each search query, whether the search location is within a threshold distance from a location of the mobile computing device. If within the threshold distance, the application server system transmits search result data comprising, for each example venue in the search results, a distance of the venue to the location of the mobile computing device. If not within the threshold distance, the application server system transmits search result data comprising, for each venue in the search results, a distance of the venue to the search location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09031978&OS=09031978&RS=09031978
owner: Whitepages, Inc.
number: 09031978
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120411
---
The proliferation of smart phones tablet computers and other network enabled mobile computing devices has generated demand for applications or apps that provide users with various information and or services. Apps may provide mobile computing device users with games social networking news alerts travel and or traffic related alerts etc. Many apps are available for download at central distribution server systems. For example each of the current major mobile computing device platforms APPLE POS and GOOGLE ANDROID has a separate app distribution service i.e. the APPLE APPSTORE the ANDROID MARKET .

As the distribution and use of mobile computing device apps has become prevalent businesses have begun to generate and distribute apps for example to generate advertising revenue and or to steer potential customers towards the businesses. There is a continuing need for new mobile computing device apps. As a result mobile device users are provided with an ever increasing range of app related business and other services. There remains a need however for apps designed to provide mobile computing device users with location based information about businesses and other venues.

Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems and methods for the provision of location based venue information to mobile computing devices such as for example smart phones tablet computers etc. The mobile computing devices may be owned by and or under the control of a person referred to herein as a user . The user may initiate some searches and view results. The user may be provided with an application or app that may be executed by the user s mobile computing device. In some embodiments information about various venues may be stored at an application server system remote from the mobile computing device and provided to the user via the mobile computing device in response to user initiated and or automated searches.

Upon execution of the app the mobile computing device may obtain and present the user with location based information in many different contexts. For example in some embodiments the mobile computing device may be programmed e.g. by the app to determine a neighborhood corresponding to a location of the mobile computing device. The neighborhood is a geographic area describing the location of the mobile computing device. Neighborhoods may or may not be geographically contiguous. The location of the mobile computing device may be determined according to any suitable hardware and or software based capabilities of the device. For example the mobile computing device may determine its location using a Global Positioning System GPS of the device a compass and or gyroscope of the device a triangulated position received from a mobile telecommunications network provider a WiFi or other mobile related network identifier e.g. Internet Protocol IP address etc. In some embodiments the mobile computing device may determine its location based on input received from the user. After determining a neighborhood the mobile computing device may facilitate searches for businesses and other venues using the determined neighborhood as a search parameter. In this way results of the searches may be tailored to the user s neighborhood.

Venues may include any locations where the user may desire to travel. Venues may include businesses offering particular products or services such as for example retail stores restaurants bars auto repair shops etc. Venues may also include other locations of interest that are not formally in business including for example non profits public parks where certain events may be occurring etc. In some embodiments venues also include private residences.

According to various embodiments the app may cause the mobile computing device and application server system to generate and or display search results based on a geographic search center. The geographic search center may be determined based on a current or past location of the mobile computing device and or user input. For example the user may initiate a search for venue information and in doing so may indicate a geographic search location as a search parameter. If the search location is more than a threshold distance from a location of the mobile computing device or if the location of the mobile computing device is unavailable then the search location may be set as the geographic search center. If the search location is less than the threshold distance from the location of the mobile computing device then the location of the mobile computing device may be set as the geographic search center. In various embodiments venues returned by the search may be displayed to the user for example in order based on the distance between each venue and the geographic search center and may indicate a distance between each venue and the geographic search center. Also in some embodiments the geographic search center may be utilized as a search location for subsequent searches.

In some embodiments the app may use the neighborhood and or geographic search center as described above to provide the user of the mobile computing device with an indication of a trending venue or venues. Trending venues may be venues selected based on the activities of venue patrons. Trending venues may be identified by the application server system for example based on trending data describing venue patron activity. The trending data may be received from a location based social networking system site or service such as for example FOURSQUARE FACEBOOK PLACES GOOGLE LATITUDE or any other suitable location based social networking site that provides real time venue trending information. Venue trending information may be accessed and downloaded from the location based social networking system for example by the application server systems. In some embodiments a server system associated with the social networking system site or service may determine trending venues and send a list of trending venues to the application server system. Trending searches may be initiated automatically and or by the user. Again trending search results may be presented for example based on the distance between the displayed venues and a geographic search center.

According to various embodiments the app may also cause the mobile computing device and application server system to implement a user check in feature. For example a user may desire to indicate his or her presence at a particular venue. Some Internet based services provide users with the option to check in at a venue. Such services include for example FOURSQUARE GOOGLE CHECK INS FACEBOOK PLACES etc. A user may utilize the app and application server system to pre register to check in at a given venue even when the user is not yet present at the venue. Upon pre registration the mobile computing device may monitor its location e.g. as the user travels to the selected venue by periodically detecting its location. If the mobile computing device enters a sleep or inactive mode the app may activate the device in order to detect its location e.g. by activating the processor . When the mobile computing device is within a predetermined distance from the business it may submit a check in request to an Internet based check in service. The request may bring about a check in of the user at the business. The check in request may be sent to the application server system or in various embodiments may be sent to a third party server system implementing the Internet based check in service to which the user is signing in. Also it will be appreciated that in some embodiments the application server system itself may implement a service for which the user signs in to a business.

Various embodiments of the present inventions described herein are directed to smart phone or other mobile computing device apps that provide location based mobile services such as neighborhood based searches and pre check in for venues. Before describing such apps in more detail this disclosure first briefly describes some details about suitable mobile computing environments and devices that can use the apps. is a diagram of an environment for providing location based venue information to various mobile computing devices . The environment comprises the mobile computing devices as well as various server systems . The various devices and systems may be in communication with one another via a data network . The data network may comprise any suitable type of wired and or wireless network and in some embodiments may comprise the Internet. For example the mobile computing devices may connect to the network utilizing a mobile telecommunications network a local area network LAN a wired connection utilizing a universal serial bus USB or other communications port of the mobile computing device etc. The data network may also be and or comprise all or a portion of a mobile telecommunications network such as for example a G G or other suitable network.

The mobile devices may execute applications or apps that configure the mobile devices to request receive and display location based venue information. For example the mobile devices upon execution of one or more apps may receive search query parameters from the user generate search query parameters in some embodiments transmit search queries to the application server system receive location based venue information from the application etc. The application server system may take various forms and may provide various data and or services to the mobile computing devices . For example the application server system may be a single computer device or server. In some embodiments the application server system may comprise multiple computer devices or servers that may be at multiple geographic locations. In some embodiments the application server system may be implemented in a networked manner such as for example according to a cloud computing or software as a service SaaS model. The application server system may provide various services to the mobile computing devices including during the execution of some apps. Such services may include data and or processing services to facilitate execution of the app or apps. For example and as described in more detail below the application server system may provide location based venue information to mobile devices in response to the search queries received from the mobile devices .

In some embodiments the application server system may also provide the mobile devices with executables and or other resources for implementing various apps. Alternately some or all executables and or other app resources may be downloaded from a distinct app distribution server system which may comprise one or more servers or other computer devices and like the application server system may be implemented in a cloud or networked manner. Example distribution services include the APPLE i OS APP STORE the ANDROID MARKET etc.

The application server system may execute one or more software modules for providing venue information to the mobile computing device . A search module may implement various user initiated and or non user initiated e.g. automatic searches for venue information for example in response to search queries received from the mobile computing device . A check in module may implement the check in service utilizing information received from the mobile computing device as described herein. The application server system may store various data for providing venue information to the mobile computing device . The data may be stored for example at one or more data stores of the application server system such as disk drives arrays of disk drives tape libraries other persistent storage devices memory etc. that may be located at a single location or across multiple locations. Venue data stored at the application server system may describe various businesses and other venues including for example products and services offered for sale by different businesses attractions and or events at businesses and other venues etc. and in some embodiments neighborhoods associated with some or all of the venues. Venue data in some embodiments may be organized into a searchable database and is also referred to herein as a venue database .

The application server system may also comprise information describing neighborhoods themselves. Neighborhoods may be defined by any suitable criteria including for example geographic boundaries or lists of constituent geographic units e.g. zip codes municipalities etc. . In some embodiments neighborhood data may be broken into a small list and a large list . The small list as described above may reside on the mobile computing device and may describe neighborhoods that may be used by the mobile device and or application server system as search parameters. In some embodiments the application server system may also maintain a copy of the small list . Neighborhoods included on the small list may comprise a large enough number of businesses or other venues to provide meaningful search results in most cases. For example if there are not enough venues in a neighborhood searches using the under populated neighborhood as a search parameter will return few or no results. According to various embodiments neighborhoods on the small list may contain a threshold number of venues per unit of population density. In various example embodiments there are about 100 businesses per neighborhood. The number of businesses in a neighborhood however as well as the size of the neighborhoods themselves can be adjusted for example based on the overall size of the city including the neighborhoods the overall number of neighborhoods e.g. in a geographic region the local importance of neighborhoods etc.

Also the small list may include popular e.g. frequently searched neighborhoods. The mobile computing device may in some embodiments store a version of the small list of neighborhoods for example as described herein below. The large list may comprise additional neighborhoods e.g. neighborhoods that do not comprise enough venues to be placed on the small list . The large list may be used for various purposes as described herein. For example some venues may be located in a neighborhood that is included in the large list but not included in the small list . When such venues are returned to the mobile computing device as search results the associated neighborhood from the large list may be provided. Also in some embodiments a third list of neighborhoods may include still more neighborhoods such that all geography within a given area is a part of at least one neighborhood without regard to whether any venues are present. The third list may be used in some cases to correctly return the neighborhood of a known location in response to a free form search.

Before providing additional details of systems and methods for searching and displaying location based venue information a detailed description is provided of example hardware and software architectures for mobile computing devices that may be utilized. The mobile computing devices may include any type of mobile computer or computer device capable of executing an app. Examples of mobile computing devices may include Internet enabled mobile telephones smart phones e.g. APPLE IPHONE ANDROID based smart phones BLACKBERRY smart phones etc. tablet computers laptop computers etc. Mobile computing devices typically provide a rich set of hardware and other features that may be utilized by apps including the app for providing venue information to users. For example is a diagram of one embodiment of a mobile computing device . The device comprises a processor memory non volatile data storage and a display . The processor may be any suitable type of microprocessor. In some embodiments the processor may comprise two separate processors with one processor managing application and or app execution and another managing communications.

The memory may be random access memory and may comprise any suitable memory technology. Non volatile data storage may be any suitable type of physical disk flash memory etc. capable of storing data when the device is powered down. In some embodiments memory and non volatile storage may be implemented at a common component. The display may be in communication with the processor to allow the processor to provide a user interface to a user of the device . The user interface may be utilized to provide the user with venue information for example as described herein. In some embodiments the display may be a tactile input or touch screen allowing the user to provide input to the device by contacting the display . Alternatively or additionally the mobile computing device may comprise a track ball not shown or other suitable pointing mechanism. In various embodiments the device may be powered by a battery which may be any suitable type of battery including for example a lithium ion Li Ion battery.

The device may comprise a variety of additional hardware and or software modules described below that may be made available to and or utilized by apps or may be a part of app independent native functionality of the device . A mobile telecommunications interface module may allow the device to utilize one or more mobile communications networks e.g. cellular networks according to any suitable communications technology e.g. G G etc. . For example the device may utilize a mobile communications network for voice and or data communications. In some embodiments and in some circumstances the mobile computing device may be in communication with the application server system via the mobile communications network e.g. the network may comprise the mobile communications network . The mobile telecommunications network may also provide the device with location information for example derived from triangulation. That location information may be used for example to tailor venue searches as described herein. A local area network LAN communications interface may provide a communication link between the device and a LAN. The communication link may be a wired or wireless link. For example in some embodiments the LAN communication interface may be configured to facilitate communications according to the WI FI standard. In some embodiments and in some circumstances the LAN communications interface may be utilized to communicate with the application server system e.g. the network may comprise the LAN .

A communications port facilitates direct wired communications between the mobile computing device and other devices e.g. other mobile computing devices desktop computers etc. . The communications port may be configured according to any suitable standard including for example Universal Serial Bus USB IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE etc. In addition some mobile computing devices may have an audio output module . The audio output module may comprise hardware and or software for providing electrical audio signals to a speaker and or headphone set of the user. For example the audio output module may comprise an output jack for receiving an input connector of a speaker or headphone set. In some embodiments the audio output module may implement a digital to audio converter and or one or more codecs for decoding audio according to various formats .wav .mp3 etc. . The codecs may be hardware and or software implemented. A camera module may comprise hardware and or software for capturing images. For example the camera module may comprise a charge coupled device CCD or any other suitable sensor focusing optics as well as hardware and or software for capturing images according to an image format e.g. .jpg .bmp .tif etc. . Captured images may be provided to the processor which may store the images at memory and or data storage .

A positioning module may comprise hardware and or software for determining a geographic position of the device . For example the positioning module may comprise a satellite based Global Positioning System GPS and or any other any other type of positioning system e.g. compass network triangulation system etc. . The geographic position or location of the device may be used for venue searches for example as described herein. A sensor module may comprise one or more sensors that may be accessible to apps executed by the device . For example the sensors may include one or more accelerometers gyroscopes magnetic sensors etc. A removable memory module may operate to receive one or more removable memory devices such as for example any form of SD card USB flash memory etc. It will be appreciated that different styles and or models of mobile computing devices may have different hardware and or software functionality. Accordingly many mobile computing devices will include combinations of hardware software modules different than that of the example device . For example mobile computing devices may include additional hardware software modules not shown in and or omit one or more of the hardware software modules shown in .

At the mobile computing device may receive and or generate search parameters. The search parameters may describe a desired venue or venues to be returned in a search. Search parameters may be generated automatically e.g. as described herein and or received from the user e.g. via a touchscreen trackball keyboard or other input device of the mobile computing device . The search parameters may comprise a neighborhood and or other search location determined at . At a search for venues is conducted based on the search parameters. The search may be conducted by the mobile computing device and or the application server system . For example in some embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise venue data stored at any suitable data storage location thereof. The mobile computing device may therefore perform the search by applying the search parameters to the local venue data. Also in some embodiments all or a portion of the venue data may be stored at the application server system as shown in . In this case the mobile computing device may provide the application server system with a search query comprising the search parameters. The application server system may search the business data and provide results to the mobile device .

At the mobile device may provide results of the search to the user. The results may be presented in any suitable format including for example as a graphical user interface provided on a display of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the results may be limited to venues within a neighborhood determined at . In other embodiments the results may include venues outside of the neighborhood determined at including for example venues within a threshold distance of the neighborhood or the search location e.g. the threshold distance may be another search parameter venues in adjacent and or nearby neighborhoods etc. Also in some embodiments the results when displayed to the user may be ordered based on the neighborhood of the displayed venues e.g. venues in the geographic area may be listed first . In some embodiments a distance between each venue and the neighborhood and or search location may also be displayed.

Before taking part in the other actions of the process flow the application server system may optionally perform various preparatory actions . For example at the application server system may load available venues into a searchable database structure e.g. the business data . The searchable database structure may be configured according to any suitable database structure including for example Open Database Connectivity ODBC Structured Query Language SQL etc. At the application server system may associate all or a portion of the venues in the database with a neighborhood or neighborhoods. The application server system may determine the neighborhood to assign to particular venues based on any suitable method. For example the application server system may compare a location of each venue to the various neighborhood boundaries and or constituent geographic units stored at . In various embodiments neighborhoods assigned to venues may be selected from the large list . In some embodiments the application server system may request and or receive venue data in a form such that each venue is already associated with a neighborhood.

To initiate neighborhood detection the mobile computing device may launch the app . Upon launch of the app or after launch of the app the mobile computing device may determine if a location of the mobile computing device is available at . Determining if a location of the mobile computing device is available may comprise for example querying various functionality of the mobile computing device including for example a positioning module of the device as illustrated in and described in more detail below with respect to . If a location of the mobile computing device is available at the mobile computing device may provide the location to the application server system at . The location may be a current or real time location of the mobile computing device or a previous location as described in more detail below with respect to .

The application server system may receive the location at . At the application server system may search the venue data for venues within a threshold distance of the location . The threshold distance may be of any suitable value and in some embodiments may be one mile. In various embodiments the search at may be based on a popular category or categories of venues. For example a popular category or categories of venues may be used as a parameter or parameters for the search. Popular categories may be categories of venues for which there are a large number of venues within the threshold distance e.g. a threshold number of venues . For example if there are a large number of venues in the neighborhood of the device in a given category e.g. shoe stores then that category may be used as at least one of the popular categories. Popular categories may be determined by the application server system for each received location or in some embodiments may be pre calculated by the application server system and or received as a pre defined list. In some embodiments popular categories may be based on prior searches by the user and or other users e.g. prior searches related to a common or close neighborhood . In various embodiments multiple searches may be performed with each search returning venues in one or more of the popular categories that are within the threshold distance of the location .

Based on the venues returned by the search the application server system may determine a neighborhood location of the mobile computing device at . For example the application server system may select a first venue from the search results based on a distance between the location and a location of the first venue. In some embodiments the first venue may be the venue from the search results that is closest to the location . The neighborhood associated with the first venue may be returned as the neighborhood of the mobile computing device . In some embodiments the application server system may select a neighborhood for the mobile computing device based on an amalgam of the neighborhoods of the venues returned by the search at . For example the application server system may select the neighborhood returned by a majority and or plurality of the returned results etc. Also in some embodiments the application server system may select a neighborhood for the mobile computing device over all of the one or more popular venue categories. For example a venue closest to the location of the mobile computing device may be selected from each of the one or more categories. The neighborhood of the mobile computing device may be selected from these results in any suitable manner e.g. majority or plurality of neighborhoods of resulting venues amalgam of neighborhoods from resulting venues etc. .

The determined neighborhood of the mobile computing device may be transmitted to the mobile computing device where it may be received at . At the mobile computing device may determine whether the returned neighborhood is on the small list . If the neighborhood is on the small list then the mobile computing device may set its neighborhood equal to the returned neighborhood at . If the neighborhood is not on the small list then the mobile computing device may request that the application server system provide an additional neighborhood e.g. based on other results of the search from .

In other embodiments instead of transmitting a single neighborhood the application server system may return to the mobile computing device the venues returned by the search at including for example the neighborhoods associated with each venue. The mobile computing device may then select the first venue from the search results based on the distance between the first venue and the location of the mobile computing device as described above and determine whether the associated neighborhood is on the small list as described at . If the neighborhood is not on the small list the mobile computing device may select another venue from the search results e.g. the next closest venue to the location . Also in some cases instead of transmitting the single neighborhood the application server system may transmit a list of neighborhoods associated with the venues returned by the search at . The mobile computing device may then select an appropriate neighborhood from the list.

At the mobile computing device may determine a list of selectable neighborhoods based on the received location. For example the mobile computing device may include on the list neighborhoods within a threshold distance of the location. When the location is a region the selectable neighborhoods may include neighborhoods within the region. At the mobile computing device may provide the list of selectable neighborhoods to a user for example via a user interface. At the mobile computing device may receive from the user a selected neighborhood which may be used for example as the neighborhood described above with respect to .

At the mobile computing device may determine if any location results received from the location system or systems are within a threshold accuracy level. The threshold accuracy level may represent an accuracy level that allows the mobile computing device to perform and or facilitate location based venue searches with a reasonable degree of accuracy. For example the threshold accuracy level may be 60 meters or some other selected distance. If at least one location result is within the threshold accuracy this result may be set as the location of the mobile computing device location at . If more than one result meets the threshold accuracy the most accurate may be set as the location of the mobile computing device at . The location returned at may be considered a current or real time location of the mobile computing device .

If no results meet the threshold accuracy then the mobile computing device may determine at whether there is a prior e.g. historical mobile computing device location result within a predetermined time threshold. For example if a valid location result has been returned within the predetermined time threshold e.g. one hour the prior result e.g. a historical location may be returned as the mobile device location at . For example it may be assumed that the mobile computing device is either still sufficiently close to the prior location or that venue searches based on the prior location will provide results meaningful to the user e.g. results including venues close to the user s current location . In some embodiments the user may be notified e.g. via the display that the mobile computing device location being used is a historical location and not a current or real time location. If at there is no prior mobile device location result no result may be returned at . For example the mobile computing device may determine that no location is available.

At the mobile computing device may receive and or derive at least one search parameter. For example the search parameters may include the neighborhood selected for example as described above with respect to process flows and . Additional search parameters may be received from the user. Examples of user provided search parameters may include for example the type of business or venue to location a capability of the business or other venue e.g. a restaurant that takes Internet reservations etc. Also in some embodiments search parameters may be derived by the mobile computing device as described herein. At the mobile computing device may provide the at least one search parameter to the application server system which may receive the same at . At the application server system may search the business data based on the at least one parameter. Results of the search may be provided to the mobile computing device at . The results may be a listing of venues meeting the search parameters. Results may be presented to the user in any suitable manner including for example as a list as a map etc. An example interface for providing search results is described below with respect to . In some embodiments the application server system may provide additional information about the search results including for example address information reviews distance information etc. At the mobile computing device may display the results and any additional information to the user for example as part of a user interface.

Focusing now on sub process flow the mobile computing device may initiate a search at . The search may be an automatic category search e.g. as described above with respect to or a user initiated search based on parameters received from the user. For example a user initiated search may be instituted when the mobile computing device sends a search query to the application server system . In various embodiments the search at may be a location based search or query having a search location. The search location may be a parameter of the search for example received from the user. For example the user may specify as a search location a particular latitude and longitude a particular address etc. If the user does not specify a search location the mobile computing device and or application server system may set a default search location such as for example a previously measured location of the mobile computing device a previously determined neighborhood of the mobile computing device e.g. determined according the process flow or the process flow a prior search location etc. At the mobile computing device may determine whether its current location is available e.g. as described above with respect to the process flow . In some embodiments the device s location may not be considered available unless a current or real time location is available.

If the current location is not available then the geographic search center may be set equal to the search location at e.g. by the mobile computing device and or by the application server system . If the search location is a neighborhood then in some embodiments the geographic search center may be set equal to a geographic center of the neighborhood. If the current location is available then current location may be transmitted to the application server system . At it may be determined whether the search location is within a threshold distance e.g. 20 miles of the current location of the mobile computing device . The determination at may be made for example by either the application server system or the mobile computing device . Provided that the search location is within the threshold distance of the current location at then the current location may be set as the geographic search center at . If the search location is not within the threshold distance of the current location at then the search location may be set as the geographic search center at . In embodiments where the mobile computing device determines whether the search location is within the threshold distance of the current location the mobile computing device may also set the geographic search center and may provide the geographic search center to the application server system .

In some embodiments the application server system may return its search results with an indication for each venue of a distance between the venue and the geographic search center. At results of the search may be presented to the user on the mobile computing device organized according to the geographic search center. For example venues may be listed in order of their distance from the geographic search center and or displayed on a map around the geographic search center. The results may be organized based on the geographic search center at the application server system before download to the mobile computing device . In some embodiments however the mobile computing device may perform the organizing after receipt of the search results. In various embodiments the geographic search center may be used in subsequent searches as a search query parameter.

Referring now to sub process flow the mobile computing device may initiate an automated search for trending venues at . The search may be initiated automatically upon launch of the app . Trending venues as described above may be selected based on the activities of venue patrons. For example trending venues may be selected based on the relative and or absolute number of patrons present at the venues a relative and or absolute number of reviews or other feedback received about the venues etc. Accordingly patron activity may constitute a parameter or parameters for the trending search. Additional parameters for the search may be determined in any suitable manner. For example in some embodiments parameters may include a popular category or categories as described above with respect to the search at above. Also in some embodiments the additional parameters may comprise a search location from a prior user initiated and or automatic search. In some embodiments if there are no prior searches e.g. since launch of the app then trending venues are determined based on factors other than prior search locations as described herein.

In various embodiments the application server system may receive patron related information associated with different venues also referred to as venue trending information from a third party source including for example a social networking site such as FOURSQUARE FACEBOOK PLACES GOOGLE LATITUDE etc. In some embodiments the venue trending information may be stored in a dedicated database e.g. at the application server system . Also in some embodiments patron reviews may be found on other Internet accessible sources such as for example periodicals newspapers etc. The patron related information may be utilized by the application server system to return result venues for trending searches. Also in some embodiments trending venues may be received directly from a third party source such as a social networking site for example in response to a search request directed to the third party source by the application server system . For example the search request to the third party source may comprise the additional search parameters received from the mobile computing device as described above.

At the mobile computing device may determine whether its location is available for example as described above with respect to process flow . Again in some embodiments the location of the mobile computing device may not be considered available unless a current location is available. If no current location is available at then the geographic search center for the trending search may be set to the search location. It will be appreciated that in some embodiments there may not be a search location e.g. if there are no prior user searches . In those cases the sub process flow may terminate without providing trending venues if the current location of the mobile computing device is not available.

If the current location of the mobile computing device is available then at the mobile computing device and or the application server system may determine whether the mobile computing device location is within a threshold distance of the search location. If the mobile computing device location is not within the threshold distance of the search location at then the geographic search center for the trending search may be set to the search location at . If the mobile computing device location is within the threshold distance of the search location at then the geographic search center for the trending search may be set to the mobile computing device location at . At results of the trending search may be organized according to the geographic search center for example as set forth above with respect to . In some embodiments the results of the trending search provided to the mobile computing device may also indicate for each returned venue a distance between the returned venue and the geographic search center. Also in some embodiments the geographic search center may be used as a parameter for subsequent trending searches. It will be appreciated that in some embodiments trending searches may be performed without determining a geographic search center. For example trending searches may be performed simply based on a search location and or mobile computing device location.

Results field may list venues returned from a search e.g. search search etc. . The results field may comprise a plurality of entries with each entry corresponding to a single returned venue. The entries may be organized in the results field in any suitable way. For example a sort button may provide a drop down menu or other suitable way for the user to indicate a preferred sorting criteria for the entries . In the example of the sort button is set to show entries in order of the best match between the returned venues associated with each entry and the search parameters. Other potential sorting methodologies include for example a sort by distance from a fixed location e.g. the mobile computing device location the geographic search center etc. a sort by neighborhood a sort by venue type etc. Each entry may indicate a name of the associated venue as well as various other information and functionality about the venue. Example information about a returned venue that may be included in its associated entry may include for example an address a telephone number whether the venue supports a check in service a number of patrons currently and or recently checked in at the venue a distance between the venue and a location of the mobile computing device or search center etc. Example functionality regarding a returned venue that may be included in its associated entry may include for example a telephone button and a website button . Selecting the telephone button causes the mobile computing device to place a telephone call to the venue e.g. utilizing a mobile telecommunications module such as described above . Selecting the website button may cause the mobile computing device to access a website of the venue. For example the mobile computing device may execute a browser and receive website information via any suitable communication technology such as for example a LAN communication module similar to a mobile telecommunications module similar to etc.

According to various embodiments the user may select an entry to receive additional information about its associated venue. For example is a screen shot showing another embodiment of the user interface including a venue screen . The venue screen may be displayed when the user selects one of the entries in the results field . For example the venue screen may comprise a venue information field including available information about the venue. The available information may comprise for example a name of the venue an address of the venue a phone number of the venue a neighborhood in which the venue is located etc. In some embodiments the venue information field may also comprise a number of check ins at the venue e.g. according to a check in service . Also in some embodiments certain functionality related to the venue may also be accessed via the venue information field . For example a telephone button may allow the user to use the mobile computing device to initiate a telephone call to the venue as described above. A map button when selected may cause the user interface to display a map field indicating the location of the venue.

Referring back to the venue information field may also comprise an add button . The add button when selected by the user may cause the mobile computing device to add the venue to a group of venues and or individuals. A share button when selected by the user may cause the mobile computing device to share the venue and or information describing the venue with another user. For example the venue and or information about the venue may be published to a social networking site associated with the user. A website button may cause the mobile computing device to access a website associated with the venue. For example the mobile computing device may execute a browser and receive website information via any suitable communication technology such as for example a LAN communication module similar to a mobile telecommunications module similar to etc. In various embodiments the venue screen may also comprise a tips and reviews field . The tips and reviews field may comprise one or more review fields comprising reviews of the venue. The reviews may be composed by patrons of the venue including for example other users journalists etc.

In various embodiments the venue screen may also include functionality for activating an automatic check in feature. The automatic check in feature may allow the user to automatically check in to a selected venue upon arrival to the venue. The check in may be implemented according to a location based social networking check in service such as for example FOURSQUARE GOOGLE CHECK INS FACEBOOK PLACES etc. and or a proprietary service. The venue screen as illustrated in includes a check in field . The check in field may allow a user to enable automatic check in at the selected venue for example by selecting the field . is a screen shot showing another embodiment of the user interface with an automatic check in feature enabled. As illustrated in check in field may indicate that the check in feature is enabled. In some embodiments the check in field may comprise a cancel button allowing the user to disable automatic check in after it has been enabled.

At the mobile computing device may launch the app . At the mobile computing device e.g. through the app may optionally register for wake lock privileges. Wake lock privileges may allow the app to awaken the mobile computing device e.g. the processor if the device has become idle. For example registering for wake lock may comprise the app registering a request e.g. via the services layer . In some embodiments e.g. in some operating system such a registration may not be necessary.

At the mobile computing device may provide at least one search parameter to the application server system . The application server system may receive the search parameter and perform a search of the venue information at . The application server system may further at provide results of the search to the mobile computing device . The mobile computing device may display the results to the user at . Steps and may be similar to various other searches described herein and displayed to the user utilizing the interface described herein. In various embodiments the results may include for each returned venue an indication of a neighborhood of the venue a distance from the venue to a search location or geographic search center etc. Also in some embodiments a search per and may be omitted. For example the mobile computing device may receive an indication of a selected venue directly from the user.

At the mobile computing device may receive from the user an indication to enable automatic check in for a selected venue included in the results . For example the user may indicate that automatic check in should be enabled utilizing the field described herein above. At the mobile computing device may determine whether its location is available for example according to the process flow described herein above. If the location is available the mobile computing device may determine whether its location is within a threshold distance of the location of the selected venue. The location of the selected venue may be received for example from the application server system as part of a search result or in response to an independent query. The threshold may be any suitable threshold indicating that the mobile computing device either is present at or very close to the location of the selected venue. For example the threshold distance may be three hundred meters. If the mobile computing device is within the threshold distance of the selected venue location the mobile computing device may check in the user with the check in service at . Checking in the user may comprise for example sending a message to the application server system sending a message to a third party server and or sending a peer to peer message to a group of other users indicating that the user has arrived at the selected venue. If the mobile computing device is not within the threshold distance and or if no location was available at the mobile computing device may wait a delay time e.g. five minutes at . If at the expiration of the delay time the mobile computing device is idle or inactive e.g. in a sleep mode it may be awakened as described above at . The mobile computing device may continue to execute actions and optionally until check in occurs.

Having thus described various novel features of the app additional details of example hardware and software architectures for the mobile computing device are provide below. For example is a system diagram of one embodiment of an example architecture for the mobile computing device . The example architecture is similar to that of the iPHONE 4 available from APPLE INC. The architecture may comprise multiple processors . A baseband processor may handle communication over a mobile telecommunications network. The baseband processor may comprise dedicated random access memory RAM . In various embodiments the baseband processor may be in communication with a transceiver . The transceiver may subsequently be in communications with one or more power amplifiers and an antenna . Outgoing signals may be processed at baseband by the baseband processor and provided to the transceiver . The transceiver and or the baseband processor may modulate the outgoing signal to a carrier frequency. One or more of the amplifiers may amplify the outgoing signal which may be subsequently transmitted via antenna . Incoming signals may be received by the antenna amplified by one or more of the amplifiers and provided to the transceiver . Either the transceiver or the baseband processor may demodulate the incoming signal to baseband.

An applications processor may execute an operating system as described herein below as well as applications or apps such as the app . In various embodiments the applications processor may be from the APPLE A4 line of processors. The applications processor may be in communications with applications RAM and non volatile data storage . The applications processor may additionally be in communication with other hardware devices such as a combination WI FI BLUETOOTH transceiver . The WI FI BLUETOOTH transceiver may handle radio frequency RF communication with a LAN e.g. according to the WI FI standard or any suitable standard or direct RF communications between the device and another wireless device e.g. according to the BLUETOOTH standard or any suitable standard . A global positioning system GPS may be in communication with a satellite based GPS system via a GPS antenna and provides the application processor with information describing the geographic location of the device . A touch screen may both provide output to the user of the device in visual form and receive input from the user. The input may be in the form of signals representing screen touches by the user. An audio codec module may provide hardware and or software for decoding and playing audio signals. In some embodiments the codec may also comprise a digital to analog converter. Audio output signals may be provided to a jack which may receive a set of headphones and or speakers for playing the audio output signal.

Various other sensors may be included. A magnetic sensor may sense magnetic fields near the device. For example the magnetic sensor may be used by various apps and or system functionality to implement a compass. An accelerometer and gyroscope may provide data describing movement of the device. For example data from the accelerometer and gyroscope may be used by some apps in a manner allowing movement of the device itself to be used as a controlled input to the app e.g. similar to a mouse or joystick . In some embodiments data from the accelerometer and gyroscope may be utilized to track the geographic location of the device for example in the course of providing venue information. Of course data received from the gyroscope and accelerometer may be used for various other purposes as well depending on the app. The architecture may be powered by a battery which may in turn be managed by a power management integrated circuit PMIC . An I O transceiver may manage wired communications between the device and other devices for example according to the Universal Serial Bus USB or any other suitable standard. A connector may facilitate wired connections. In some embodiments connections via the connector and I O transceiver may provide power for charging the battery .

A camera in communication with the processor may comprise appropriate hardware and or software for providing images and or video to the processor . WI FI BLUETOOTH transceiver may provide LAN and or device specific wireless communications utilizing antenna . Transceiver power amplifiers and antenna may be utilized to provide mobile telecommunications for example in a manner similar to that described above with respect to the architecture . Power may be provided to the architecture by a battery and PMIC . An I O transceiver may manage wired connections between the device and other devices e.g. via a connector . The I O transceiver and connector may aid in charging of the battery for example in a manner similar to that of the architecture described above. It will be appreciated that the architectures and are provided for example purposes only. Mobile computing devices for executing the apps here may be of any suitable architecture. For example the mobile computing device described herein above may be constructed according to the architecture the architecture or any other suitable architecture. For example in some embodiments the mobile device may omit telephony components e.g. transceiver and related components .

According to most architectures the mobile computing device executes an operating system that manages the execution of apps and provide apps with access to the various hardware and or software modules and features of the device . is a diagram of one embodiment of an example operating system for the mobile computing device . The operating system may be any suitable operating system including for example SYMBIAN available from ACCENTURE POS available from APPLE INC. WINDOWS MOBILE available from MICROSOFT CORPORATION ANDROID available from GOOGLE INC. etc. Some mobile computing devices may execute operating systems that are not specifically designed for mobile computing devices such as for example MAC OS X available from APPLE INC. any WINDOWS operating system available from MICROSOFT CORPORATION LINUX UNIX etc.

The operating system may generally comprise a core or kernel layer a services layer and an applications layer . The kernel layer may execute and or manage low level operations of the mobile computing device . For example in some embodiments the kernel layer may implement hardware drivers to handle low level interactions with different hardware components such as for example the camera positioning module sensors memory data storage communications port etc. For example the kernel layer may implement memory allocation and or management including deriving and transmitting appropriate low level commands for reading and writing to memory. The kernel layer may also comprise functionality for managing data storage such as the data storage and removable memory etc. For example the kernel layer may implement and or interface with one or more file systems and may format read and write requests according to the file system or systems for each respective data storage device . The kernel layer may also handle low level aspects of communication between the device and other computing devices e.g. via the LAN communications module communications port mobile telecommunications module etc. . In some embodiments the kernel layer may also handle security aspects of communications. For example the kernel layer may implement encryption e.g. symmetric or asymmetric encryption in a manner that is transparent to higher levels of the operating system . In various embodiments the kernel layer may additionally perform various processing tasks such as for example some types of calculation computation e.g. linear algebra signal processing tasks media manipulation tasks etc. .

The services layer of the operating system may provide an interface between the functionality of the kernel layer and apps executing at the applications layer allowing the apps to access kernel layer functionality. For example the services layer may comprise one or more libraries of commands and or functions that may be called by apps to access kernel layer functionality e.g. read and write commands communication commands etc. . Also in some cases the services layer may execute intermediate level functionality such as for example media players activity monitoring event notification etc.

The applications layer may host applications or apps executed by the device including for example the app . Many apps implement a direct user interface to a user of the device . Apps may be third party apps and or core apps associated with and sometimes shipped with the operating system. Example third party apps may provide venue information for example as described herein. Examples of core apps shipped with the ANDROID operating system include a short message service SMS app a calendar app a map app a contacts app an Internet browser app etc. It will be appreciated that the mobile computing device may execute any suitable operating system and that some operating systems may have structures slightly or even considerably different than that of the operating system described above.

Various activities of the mobile computing device described herein may be facilitated by an operating system architecture such as . For example referring again to at and the mobile computing device may determine available location functionality and query the available location functionality. Determining the available location systems of the mobile computing device and querying the systems may comprise the app e.g. executing at an applications layer utilizing an application programming interface API provided by the services layer to access the kernel or other low level features of the location system s . Also referring again to the process flow awakening the mobile computing device if it is idle may be implemented utilizing capabilities of the architecture . For example to awaken the device the app may cause a command to be transmitted according to an API of the services layer . The command may reach the kernel layer which may generate a suitable signal e.g. interrupt signal to the processor or other suitable hardware to awaken the device .

The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the present invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. No particular aspect or aspects of the examples are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the present invention. For example no particular aspect or aspects of the examples of system architectures methods or processing structures described herein are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the invention.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the preceding discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or determining or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices. It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that these sorts of focused descriptions would not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention and therefore a more detailed description of such elements is not provided herein.

In various embodiments modules or software can be used to practice certain aspects of the invention. For example software as a service SaaS models or application service provider ASP models may be employed as software application delivery models to communicate software applications to clients or other users. Such software applications can be downloaded through an Internet connection for example and operated either independently e.g. downloaded to a laptop or desktop computer system or through a third party service provider e.g. accessed through a third party web site . In addition cloud computing techniques may be employed in connection with various embodiments of the invention.

Moreover the processes associated with the present embodiments may be executed by programmable equipment such as computers. Software or other sets of instructions may be employed to cause programmable equipment to execute the processes. The processes may be stored in any storage device such as for example a computer system non volatile memory an optical disk magnetic tape or magnetic disk. Furthermore some of the processes may be programmed when the computer system is manufactured or via a computer readable memory medium.

It can also be appreciated that certain process aspects described herein may be performed using instructions stored on a computer readable memory medium or media that direct a computer or computer system to perform process steps. A computer readable medium may include for example memory devices such as diskettes compact discs of both read only and read write varieties optical disk drives and hard disk drives. A computer readable medium may also include memory storage that may be physical virtual permanent temporary semi permanent and or semi temporary.

A computer computer system computing device host engine or processor may be for example and without limitation a processor microcomputer minicomputer server mainframe laptop personal data assistant PDA wireless e mail device cellular phone pager processor fax machine scanner tablet computer or any other programmable device configured to transmit and or receive data over a network. Computer systems and computer based devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing and communicating information. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external with respect to operation of the disclosed embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software including a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable PROM and or other computer readable memory media.

In various embodiments of the present invention a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice embodiments of the present invention such substitution is within the scope of the present invention. Any of the servers described herein for example may be replaced by a server farm or other grouping of networked servers e.g. a group of server blades that are located and configured for cooperative functions. It can be appreciated that a server farm may serve to distribute workload between among individual components of the farm and may expedite computing processes by harnessing the collective and cooperative power of multiple servers. Such server farms may employ load balancing software that accomplishes tasks such as for example tracking demand for processing power from different machines prioritizing and scheduling tasks based on network demand and or providing backup contingency in the event of component failure or reduction in operability.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods described herein may employ one or more electronic computer data networks to promote communication among different components transfer data or to share resources and information. Such computer networks can be classified according to the hardware and software technology that is used to interconnect the devices in the network such as optical fiber Ethernet wireless LAN HomePNA power line communication or G.hn. The computer networks may also be embodied as one or more of the following types of networks local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN storage area network SAN or global area network GAN among other network varieties.

For example a WAN computer network may cover a broad area by linking communications across metropolitan regional or national boundaries. The network may use routers and or public communication links One type of data communication network may cover a relatively broad neighborhood e.g. city to city or country to country which uses transmission facilities provided by common carriers such as telephone service providers. In another example a GAN computer network may support mobile communications across multiple wireless LANs or satellite networks. In another example a VPN computer network may include links between nodes carried by open connections or virtual circuits in another network e.g. the Internet instead of by physical wires. The link layer protocols of the VPN can be tunneled through the other network. One VPN application can promote secure communications through the Internet. The VPN can also be used to separately and securely conduct the traffic of different user communities over an underlying network. The VPN may provide users with the virtual experience of accessing the network through an IP address location other than the actual IP address which connects the access device to the network.

Computer networks may include hardware elements to interconnect network nodes such as network interface cards NICs or Ethernet cards repeaters bridges hubs switches routers and other like components. Such elements may be physically wired for communication and or data connections may be provided with microwave links e.g. IEEE 802.12 or fiber optics for example. A network card network adapter or NIC can be designed to allow computers to communicate over the computer network by providing physical access to a network and an addressing system through the use of MAC addresses for example. A repeater can be embodied as an electronic device that receives and retransmits a communicated signal at a boosted power level to allow the signal to cover a telecommunication distance with reduced degradation. A network bridge can be configured to connect multiple network segments at the data link layer of a computer network while learning which addresses can be reached through which specific ports of the network. In the network the bridge may associate a port with an address and then send traffic for that address only to that port. In various embodiments local bridges may be employed to directly connect local area networks LANs remote bridges can be used to create a wide area network WAN link between LANs and or wireless bridges can be used to connect LANs and or to connect remote stations to LANs.

In various embodiments a hub may be employed which contains multiple ports. For example when a data packet arrives at one port of a hub the packet can be copied unmodified to all ports of the hub for transmission. A network switch or other devices that forward and filter OSI layer datagrams between ports based on MAC addresses in data packets can also be used. A switch can possess multiple ports such that most of the network is connected directly to the switch or another switch that is in turn connected to a switch. The term switch can also include routers and bridges as well as other devices that distribute data traffic by application content e.g. a Web URL identifier . Switches may operate at one or more OSI model layers including physical data link network or transport i.e. end to end . A device that operates simultaneously at more than one of these layers can be considered a multilayer switch. In certain embodiments routers or other like networking devices may be used to forward data packets between networks using headers and forwarding tables to determine an optimum path through which to transmit the packets.

As employed herein an application server or application server system may be a server that hosts an API to expose venue logic and venue processes for use by other applications. Examples of application server systems include J2EE or Java EE 5 application server systems including WebSphere Application Server. Other examples include WebSphere Application Server Community Edition IBM Sybase Enterprise Application Server Sybase Inc WebLogic Server BEA JBoss Red Hat JRun Adobe Systems Apache Geronimo Apache Software Foundation Oracle OC4J Oracle Corporation Sun Java System Application Server Sun Microsystems and SAP Netweaver AS ABAP Java . Also application server systems may be provided in accordance with the .NET framework including the Windows Communication Foundation .NET Remoting ADO.NET and ASP.NET among several other components. For example a Java Server Page JSP is a servlet that executes in a web container which is functionally equivalent to CGI scripts. JSPs can be used to create HTML pages by embedding references to the server logic within the page. The application server systems may mainly serve web based applications while other servers can perform as session initiation protocol servers for instance or work with telephony networks. Specifications for enterprise application integration and service oriented architecture can be designed to connect many different computer network elements. Such specifications include Business Application Programming Interface Web Services Interoperability and Java EE Connector Architecture.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described herein it should be apparent however that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

