---

title: HDAC inhibitors and therapeutic methods using the same
abstract: Histone deacetylases inhibitors (HDACIs) and compositions containing the same are disclosed. Methods of treating diseases and conditions wherein inhibition of HDAC provides a benefit, like a cancer, a neurodegenerative disorder, a peripheral neuropathy, a neurological disease, traumatic brain injury, stroke, hypertension, malaria, an autoimmune disease, autism, autism spectrum disorders, and inflammation, also are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09249087&OS=09249087&RS=09249087
owner: THE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL OF PHILADELPHIA
number: 09249087
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120131
---
This application is the U.S. National phase of PCT US2012 023332 filed Jan. 31 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 61 438 435 filed Feb. 1 2011 U.S. provisional application No. 61 443 960 filed Feb. 17 2011 and U.S. provisional application No. 61 554 653 filed Nov. 2 2011 each incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under NIH Grant No. P01AI073489 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitors to pharmaceutical compositions comprising one or more of the HDAC inhibitors to methods of increasing the sensitivity of cancer cells to the cytotoxic effects of radiotherapy and or chemotherapy comprising contacting the cell with one or more of the HDAC inhibitors and to therapeutic methods of treating conditions and diseases wherein inhibition of HDAC provides a benefit for example a cancer an inflammation a neurological disease a neurodegenerative disorder stroke traumatic brain injury allograft rejection autoimmune diseases and malaria comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a present HDAC inhibitor to an individual in need thereof.

Inhibitors of HDACs modulate transcription and induce cell growth arrest differentiation and apoptosis. HDAC inhibitors HDACIs also enhance the cytotoxic effects of therapeutic agents used in cancer treatment including radiation and chemotherapeutic drugs. Moreover recent research indicates that transcriptional dysregulation may contribute to the molecular pathogenesis of certain neurodegenerative disorders such as Huntington s disease Rett syndrome Charcot Marie Tooth disease CMT and other peripheral neuropathies spinal muscular atrophy amyotropic lateral sclerosis and ischemia. For example suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA has been shown to penetrate into the brain to dramatically improve motor impairment in a mouse model of Huntington s disease thereby validating research directed to HDACIs in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Furthermore selective HDAC6 inhibitors have been shown to rescue the CMT phenotype restore proper mitochondrial motility and correct the axonal transport defects observed in transgenic mice. Selective HDAC6 inhibitors also induce the re innervation of muscles and increase the number of observed neuromuscular junctions in these same models C. d Ydewalle et al. 2011 .

A recent review summarized evidence that aberrant histone acetyltransferase HAT and HDAC activity may be a common underlying mechanism contributing to neurodegeneration. Moreover from a mouse model of depression the therapeutic potential of HDACs in treating depression is discussed. See WO 2008 019025 designating the United States incorporated herein in its entirety.

Eleven isozymes in the HDAC family of enzymes which can be grouped into classes by their evolutionary relationships have been identified. Structure and function appear to be conserved among members of the various classes. The HDAC family is made up of class I HDACs including HDAC1 2 3 and 8 class IIa including HDAC4 5 7 and 9 class IIb including HDAC6 and 10 and a class IV enzyme HDAC11 A. J. de Ruijter et al. 2003 370 Pt 737 749 .

The class I HDACs are found primarily in the nucleus and are expressed in all tissue types except for the muscle cell specific HDAC8. The class I HDACs interact with many key transcription factors regulating gene expression including CoREST and NuRD. Class IIa HDACs have tissue specific expression and are found in both the nucleus and cytoplasm. Unlike the other isozymes the class IIb HDAC6 does not extensively associate with transcription factors and acts as a deacetylase on non histone proteins including tubulin HSP90 cortactin and the peroxiredoxins O. Witt et al. 2008 R. B. Parmigiana et al. 2008 .

HDACs form multiprotein complexes with many regulatory proteins inside the cell. For example HDAC4 5 and 7 actually lack intrinsic deacetylase ability and gain activity only by interacting with HDAC3. Each isozyme interacts with a specific series of regulatory proteins and transcription factors and has a specific set of substrates and thus each regulates a specific series of genes and proteins O. Witt et al. 2008 . The design of selective HDAC isozyme inhibitors allows preferential inhibition of only the isozyme s relevant to a particular disease or condition thereby reducing the probability of counterproductive and or adverse effects resulting from an unwanted and undesired inhibition of other HDAC isozymes.

HDAC6 is the most abundant histone deacetylase isozyme in the human body and along with HDAC7 is the most commonly expressed isozyme in the brain A. J. de Ruijter et al. 2003 370 Pt 737 749 . Structurally significant features of HDAC6 include two deacetylase domains and a zinc finger motif. It is most commonly found in the cytoplasm but can be shuttled into the nucleus via its nuclear export signal. A cytoplasmic retention signal which sequesters the enzyme in the cytoplasm also was found A. Valenzuela Fernandez et al. 2008 18 6 291 297 . The functions of HDAC6 are unlike any of the other HDAC isozymes. Many non histone substrates are deacetylated by HDAC6 including tubulin HSP90 cortactin and peroxiredoxins O. Witt et al. 2008 R. B. Parmigiani et al. 2008 105 28 9633 9638 .

The design of HDACIs focuses on the three major domains of the enzyme molecule. A zinc binding group ZBG of the HDACI typically is a hydroxamic acid benzamide or thiol although other functional groups have been used. This ZBG moiety of the inhibitor chelates the zinc cofactor found in the active site of the enzyme. The ZBG moiety typically is bonded to a lipophilic linker group which occupies a narrow channel leading from the HDAC surface to the active site. This linker in turn is bonded to a surface recognition or cap moiety which typically is an aromatic group that interacts with residues at the surface of the enzyme K. V. Butler et al. 2008 14 6 505 528 .

Consideration of each structural element is important in the design of HDACIs 37 . Alteration of the ZBG has profound effects on inhibitor potency. The most potent inhibitors frequently feature a hydroxamic acid ZBG though other groups such as ketones amides and thiols effectively inhibit the enzyme with lower potency. Low molecular weight compounds having carboxylic acid ZBGs such as valproic acid inhibit HDACs at micromolar potency but have profound effects in vivo when given in high doses. Hydroxamic acids chelate zinc in a bidentate fashion and hydrogen bond with H142 and H143 HDAC8 as revealed by crystal structure data. Computational studies have refined this description of chelation demonstrating that the hydroxamic acid carbonyl coordinates zinc more strongly than the hydroxyl group. Energetically favorable interactions between hydroxamic acid and the active site provide for high potency inhibition but the hydroxamic acid functional group has some undesirable properties from a drug design perspective. Hydroxamic acids are potentially mutagenic and have given positive results in the Ames test. Hydroxamic acids also are promiscuous zinc chelators and potently inhibit many zinc containing metalloproteins. The replacement of hydroxamic acid with a different potent ZBG is an active area of research in HDACI design and development.

The linker region typically is a hydrophobic aryl or alkyl scaffold which occupies the hydrophobic HDAC catalytic channel. Most reported HDACIs including SAHA feature an alkyl chain linker mimicking the lysine alkyl chain. Aromatic groups are frequently included in the linker region of an HDACI for example in the HDACIs panbinostat and belinostat.

Manipulation of the cap group can greatly increase potency because this group has the potential to interact with multiple residues at the enzyme surface. The most potent inhibitors typically feature an aryl cap group scaffold. Biaryl and heteroaromatic cap group scaffolds have been extensively investigated. The large tetrapeptide motif of apicidin imparts high potency and gives high potency with a number of diverse ZBGs. The tetrapeptide cap group motif is common to natural product HDACIs and has been engineered to produce libraries of tetrapeptide HDACIs for use in screening protocols.

Currently at least eleven HDACIs are in clinical development. These HDACIs can be divided into at least five chemical classes illustrated below based on their structure and in most cases they broadly and nonselectively inhibit class I II HDACs with varying efficiency. These five chemical classes are hydroxamates cyclic tetrapeptides cyclic peptides short chain fatty acids and benzamides. Typically known HDACIs fail to show prominent HDAC isozyme selectivity which as stated above can cause serious problems in a clinical setting especially in the treatment of diseases and conditions wherein a prolonged drug administration of an HDACI is required. For example it has been found that some HDACIs enhance lung and microglial inflammation TSA and SAHA as well as high glucose induced inflammation. If this effect is linked to specific HDAC isozymes the use of certain HDACIs would be contraindicated in various diseases and conditions such as diabetes and asthma.

Clinical trial information relating to HDACIs is published in J. Tan et al. 3 5 2010 and L. Wang et al. 8 969 81 2009 .

HDAC regulated factors have been implicated in the mechanisms of major central nervous system CNS disorders. In Parkinson s disease PD synuclein binds to histones and inhibits HAT activity causing neurodegeneration. Application of HDACIs to PD neurons blocks synuclein toxicity. Dysregulation of histone acetylation involving CBP a neuroprotective transcription factor with histone acetyltransferase activity has been found in Huntington s disease HD Alzheimer s disease AD and Rubinstein Taybi syndrome T. Abel et al. 2008 8 1 57 64 . In a cellular model of AD cell death was accompanied by loss of CBP function and histone deacetylation. The mutant HD protein htt interacts with CBP inhibiting the HAT activity and causing cell death. Treatment with an HDACI helps to restore histone acetylation protecting against neurodegeneration and improving motor performance in a mouse model of HD C. Rouaux et al. 2004 68 6 1157 1164 .

Various studies directed to the application of HDACIs in the context of CNS disorders have implicated the class II HDACs particularly HDAC6 as potential therapeutic targets. One investigation revealed that inhibition of HDAC6 could be beneficial as a treatment for HD a disease for which no pharmacological treatment is available. The mutant htt protein found in HD disrupts intracellular transport of the pro survival and pro growth nerve factor BDNF along the microtubule network causing neuronal toxicity. Inhibition of HDAC6 promotes transport of BDNF by promoting tubulin hyperacetylation. TSA trichostatin A a nonselective HDAC inhibitor was found to facilitate transport and release of BNDF containing vesicles J. P. Dompierre et al. 2007 27 13 3571 3583 . These results provide a biological basis for the identification and development of HDACIs and particularly HDAC6 selective inhibitors as a treatment for HD and other neurodegenerative disorders.

HDACIs prevent or delay neuronal dysfunction and death in in vitro and in vivo models thereby indicating that HDACIs are broadly neuroprotective. For example HDACIs have shown therapeutic efficacy in the polyglutamine expansion disorder Huntington s disease. While the neuroprotective mechanisms of the HDACIs in rodent models are not yet understood it is clear that HDACIs induce the expression of certain genes that confer neuroprotection. The upregulation of HSP 70 and Bcl 2 through the inhibition of HDAC has been observed in the cortex and striatum of rats after focal cerebral ischemia. HSP 70 expression has been found to result in neuroprotection in a number of disease models including Alzheimer s disease AD Parkinson s disease PD and Huntington s disease HD . In addition HDAC6 inhibition leads to the acetylation of peroxiredoxin and increases its antioxidant activity which may contribute to the neuroprotective effects of these compounds R. B. Parmigiana et al. 2008 .

Studies also provide good evidence that HDACI induced p21cip1 waf1 expression may play a significant role in HDACI mediated neuroprotection. It recently was reported that p21cip1 waf1 overexpression protects neurons from oxidative stress induced death that p21cip1 waf1 is induced in the rodent brain by HDAC inhibition and that homozygous loss of p21cip1 waf1 exacerbates damage in a mouse MCAO reperfusion model of ischemic stroke. In a similar study the HDAC inhibitor TSA was shown to increase gelsolin expression in neurons and that gelsolin expression is necessary for neuroprotection in an oxygen glucose deprivation model of neurodegeneration and a mouse MCAO reperfusion model of ischemic stroke.

Alternatively unrelated to histone acetylation and gene upregulation proteins such as tubulin and HSP90 are targets for acetylation and become acetylated when HDACs are inhibited. In tumor cells the acetylation of HSP90 has been shown to decrease the ability of HSP90 to interact with certain client proteins and thereby abrogate chaperone function. With regard to stroke and traumatic brain injury TBI as well as several other neurodegenerative diseases the inhibition of HSP90 is predicted to have a positive effect on neuronal survival. Indeed the pharmacological HSP90 inhibitor Geldanamycin and its analogs have been shown to be neuroprotective in a number of stroke models. HSP90 inhibition and the consequent release of heat shock factor HSF to the nucleus may also in part explain an upregulation of HSP70 in the brain during focal ischemia and HDACI treatment.

In addition HDACIs are useful in the treatment of cancers. For example histone acetylation and deacetylation play important roles in chromatin folding and maintenance Kornberg et al. Bjorklund et al. 1999 96 759 767 Struhl et al. 1998 94 1 4 . Acetylated chromatin is more open and has been implicated in the increased radiation sensitivities observed in some cell types Oleinick et al. 1994 66 523 529 . Furthermore certain radiation resistant human cancer cells treated with the HDACI inhibitor TSA were sensitized to the damaging effects of ionizing radiation. Thus HDACIs appear useful as radiation sensitizing agents.

WO 2008 055068 designating the U.S. and incorporated herein in its entirety discloses numerous diseases and conditions treatable by HDACIs including the underlying science and reasoning supporting such treatments.

HDAC6 therefore has emerged as an attractive target for drug development and research. C. M. Grozinger et al. 1999 96 4868 73 and C. Boyault et al. 2007 26 5468 76. Presently HDAC6 inhibition is believed to offer potential therapies for autoimmunity cancer and many neurodegenerative conditions. S. Minucci et al. 2006 6 38 51 L. Wang et al. 2009 8 969 81 J. P. Dompierre et al. 2007 27 3571 83 and A. G. Kazantsev et al. 2008 7 854 68. Selective inhibition of HDAC6 by small molecule or genetic tools has been demonstrated to promote survival and re growth of neurons following injury offering the possibility for pharmacological intervention in both CNS injury and neurodegenerative conditions. M. A. Rivieccio et al. 2009 106 19599 604. Unlike other histone deacetylases inhibition of HDAC6 does not appear to be associated with any toxicity making it an excellent drug target. O. Witt et al. 2009 277 8 21. Tubacin an HDAC6 selective inhibitor used in models of disease has helped to validate in part HDAC6 as a drug target but its non drug like structure high lipophilicity ClogP 6.36 KOWWIN and tedious synthesis make it more useful as a research tool than a drug. S. Haggarty et al. 2003 100 4389 94. Other compounds also have a modest preference for inhibiting HDAC6. S. Schafer et al. 2009 4 283 90 Y. Itoh et al. 2007 50 5425 38 and S. Manku et al. 2009 19 1866 70. 

In summary extensive evidence supports a therapeutic role for HDACIs in the treatment of a variety of conditions and diseases such as cancers and CNS diseases and degenerations. However despite exhibiting overall beneficial effects like beneficial neuroprotective effects for example HDACIs known to date have little specificity with regard to HDAC inhibition and therefore inhibit all zinc dependent histone deacetylases. It is still unknown which is are the salient HDAC s that mediate s neuroprotection when inhibited. Emerging evidence suggests that at least some of the HDAC isozymes are absolutely required for the maintenance and survival of neurons e.g. HDAC1. Additionally adverse side effect issues have been noted with nonspecific HDAC inhibition. Thus the clinical efficacy of present day nonspecific HDACIs for stroke neurodegenerative disorders neurological diseases and other diseases and conditions ultimately may be limited. It is important therefore to design synthesize and test compounds capable of serving as potent and preferably isozyme selective HDACIs that are able to ameliorate the effects of neurological disease neurodegenerative disorder traumatic brain injury cancer inflammation malaria autoimmune diseases immunosuppressive therapy and other conditions and diseases mediated by HDACs.

An important advance in the art would be the discovery of HDACIs and particularly selective HDAC6 inhibitors that are useful in the treatment of diseases wherein HDAC inhibition provides a benefit such as cancers neurological diseases traumatic brain injury neurodegenerative disorders and other peripheral neuropathies stroke hypertension malaria allograft rejection rheumatoid arthritis and inflammations. Accordingly a significant need exists in the art for efficacious compounds compositions and methods useful in the treatment of such diseases alone or in conjunction with other therapies used to treat these diseases and conditions. The present invention is directed to meeting this need.

The present invention relates to HDACIs pharmaceutical compositions comprising the HDACIs and methods of treating diseases and conditions wherein inhibition of HDAC provides a benefit such as a cancer a neurological disease a neurodegenerative disorder a peripheral neuropathy stroke hypertension an inflammation traumatic brain injury rheumatoid arthritis allograft rejection autoimmune diseases and malaria comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of an HDACI to an individual in need thereof. The present invention also relates to a method of increasing the sensitivity of a cancer cell to radiotherapy and or chemotherapy. The present invention also allows for the use of these HDACIs inhibitors in combination with other drugs and or therapeutic approaches. In some embodiments the present HDACIs exhibit selectivity for particular HDAC isozymes such as HDAC6 over other HDAC isozymes.

R independently is selected from the group consisting of null hydrogen Calkyl Cheteroalkyl Calkenyl Cperfluoroalkyl Cperfluoroalkoxy aryl heteroaryl Ccycloalkyl Cheterocycloalkyl Calkylenearyl Calkyleneheteroaryl Calkyleneheterocycloalkyl Calkylenecycloalkyl 

R independently is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Calkyl Cheteroalkyl CalkyleneNH CalkyleneNH Calkyl CalkyleneN Calkyl CalkyleneNH Calkyl CalkyleneNHC O Calkyl CalkyleneC O NH CalkyleneOH CalkyleneCN CheteroalkyleneCN CalkyleneOCalkyl CalkyleneSH CalkyleneSCalkyl CalkyleneNH SOCalkyl aryl heteroaryl Ccycloalkyl and Cheterocycloalkyl 

R Rand Rindependently are selected from the group consisting of null hydrogen Calkyl Cheteroalkyl Calkenyl Cperfluoroalkyl Cperfluoroalkoxy aryl heteroaryl Ccycloalkyl Cheterocycloalkyl Calkylenearyl Calkyleneheteroaryl Calkyleneheterocycloalkyl Calkylenecycloalkyl 

L is selected from the group consisting of null Calkylene Rsubstituted Calkylene NR C O aryl C O aryl C O Calkylene CalkyleneNR CalkylenearyleneCalkylene Calkenylene Calkdienylene Calkylenearylene Calkyleneheteroarylene Rsubstituted Calkyleneheteroarylene and CalkenylenearyleneCalkylene and Ris defined above 

R independently is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C O CH Calkyl CF CHF and aryl or two Rgroups are taken together with the carbon to which they attached to form a Ccycloalkyl group 

Ris selected from the group consisting of OH N R NH OCH N CH OH Calkyl CF aryl heteroaryl Ccycloalkyl NHSOCH NHSOCF and Chaloalkyl 

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a condition or disease by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a present HDACI to an individual in need thereof. The disease or condition of interest is treatable by inhibition of HDAC for example a cancer a neurodegenerative disorder a traumatic brain injury a neurological disease peripheral neuropathy an inflammation stroke hypertension an autoimmune disease allograft rejection and malaria.

The present HDACIs contain but are not limited to a bidentate chelate as the zinc binding group ZBG . Preferably a present HDACI contains a relatively short linker group between the ZBG and the aromatic surface recognition group e.g. contains a 0 to 5 carbon atom chain. The surface recognition group is a bicyclic monocyclic or acyclic moiety such as indolyl i.e. 

It has been found that a degree of isoform selectivity for an HDACI can be achieved by manipulating the surface recognition group in concert with the ZBG. In particular a combination of steric and electronic properties of the surface recognition group modulates the ability of the compounds to target different isoforms via interactions with an HDAC surface. Such considerations led to the present HDACIs having a surface recognition group that exhibits selectivity in the inhibition of HDAC6.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides a method of treating a cancer comprising administering to an individual in need thereof such as a human a therapeutically effective amount of a present HDACI. A present HDACI can be administered as the sole anticancer therapy or in conjunction with a therapeutically effective amount of a second anticancer agent such as radiation and or chemotherapy.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides a method of increasing the sensitivity of a cancer cell to the cytotoxic effects of radiotherapy and or chemotherapy comprising contacting the cell with an effective amount of a present HDACI. In certain embodiments the cell is an in vivo cell.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a neurological disease comprising administering to an individual in need thereof such as a human a therapeutically effective amount of a present HDACI. The present invention also relates to a method of treating neurodegenerative disorders peripheral neuropathies and traumatic brain injuries comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a present HDACI to an individual in need thereof. In each embodiment a present HDACI can be the sole therapeutic agent or can be administered with additional therapeutic agents known to treat the disease or condition of interest.

The present invention also provides a method of treating malaria and other parasitic infections comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a present HDACI to an individual in need thereof. In certain embodiments the individual is a human. In certain embodiments said method further comprises optionally coadministering a second antimalarial compound e.g. chloroquine .

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a method of inducing immunosuppression in an individual comprising administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a present HDACI to an individual in need thereof for example an individual receiving a transplant. This method further comprises optionally coadministering a second immunosuppressant e.g. cyclosporin or therapeutic agent.

In still another embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating inflammatory diseases and conditions e.g. arthritis and rheumatic diseases comprising administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a present HDACI to an individual in need thereof. The method further contemplates optional coadministration of a second anti inflammatory drug or therapeutic agent.

In another embodiment the present invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a present HDACI and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

Another embodiment of the present invention is to utilize a present HDACI and an optional second therapeutically active agent in a method of treating an individual for a disease or condition wherein inhibition of HDAC provides a benefit.

In a further embodiment the invention provides for use of a composition comprising a present HDACI and an optional second therapeutic agent for the manufacture of a medicament for treating a disease or condition of interest e.g. a cancer neurodegeneration or autoimmunity.

Still another embodiment of the present invention is to provide a kit for human pharmaceutical use comprising a a container b1 a packaged composition comprising a present HDACI and optionally b2 a packaged composition comprising a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of a disease or condition of interest and c a package insert containing directions for use of the composition or compositions administered simultaneously or sequentially in the treatment of the disease or condition of interest.

A present HDACI and the second therapeutic agent can be administered together as a single unit dose or separately as multi unit doses wherein a present HDACI is administered before the second therapeutic agent or vice versa. It is envisioned that one or more dose of a present HDACI and or one or more dose of a second therapeutic agent can be administered.

In one embodiment a present HDACI and a second therapeutic agent are administered simultaneously. In related embodiments a present HDACI and second therapeutic agent are administered from a single composition or from separate compositions. In a further embodiment a present HDACI and a second therapeutic agent are administered sequentially. A present HDACI can be administered in an amount of about 0.005 to about 500 milligrams per dose about 0.05 to about 250 milligrams per dose or about 0.5 to about 100 milligrams per dose.

Compounds of the invention inhibit HDAC and are useful research tools for in vitro study of histone deacetylases and their role in biological processes.

These and other novel aspects of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

The present invention is directed to novel HDACIs and their use in therapeutic treatments of for example cancers inflammations traumatic brain injuries neurodegenerative disorders neurological diseases peripheral neuropathies strokes hypertension autoimmune diseases inflammatory diseases and malaria. The present HDACIs also increase the sensitivity of a cancer cell to the cytotoxic effects of radiotherapy and or chemotherapy. In some embodiments the present HDACIs selectively inhibit HDAC6 over other HDAC isozymes.

The present invention is described in connection with preferred embodiments. However it should be appreciated that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments. It is understood that given the description of the embodiments of the invention herein various modifications can be made by a person skilled in the art. Such modifications are encompassed by the claims below.

The term a disease or condition wherein inhibition of HDAC provides a benefit pertains to a condition in which HDAC and or the action of HDAC is important or necessary e.g. for the onset progress expression of that disease or condition or a disease or a condition which is known to be treated by an HDAC inhibitor such as e.g. TSA pivalolyloxymethylbutane AN 9 Pivanex FK 228 Depsipeptide PXD 101 NVP LAQ824 SAHA MS 275 and or MGCD0103 . Examples of such conditions include but are not limited to cancer psoriasis fibroproliferative disorders e.g. liver fibrosis smooth muscle proliferative disorders e.g. atherosclerosis restenosis neurodegenerative diseases e.g. Alzheimer s Parkinson s Huntington s chorea amyotropic lateral sclerosis spino cerebellar degeneration Rett syndrome peripheral neuropathies Charcot Marie Tooth disease Giant Axonal Neuropathy GAN inflammatory diseases e.g. osteoarthritis rheumatoid arthritis colitis diseases involving angiogenesis e.g. cancer rheumatoid arthritis psoriasis diabetic retinopathy hematopoietic disorders e.g. anemia sickle cell anemia thalasseimia fungal infections parasitic infections e.g. malaria trypanosomiasis helminthiasis protozoal infections bacterial infections viral infections and conditions treatable by immune modulation e.g. multiple sclerosis autoimmune diabetes lupus atopic dermatitis allergies asthma allergic rhinitis inflammatory bowel disease and for improving grafting of transplants . One of ordinary skill in the art is readily able to determine whether a compound treats a disease or condition mediated by HDAC for any particular cell type for example by assays which conveniently can be used to assess the activity of particular compounds.

The term second therapeutic agent refers to a therapeutic agent different from a present HDACI and that is known to treat the disease or condition of interest. For example when a cancer is the disease or condition of interest the second therapeutic agent can be a known chemotherapeutic drug like taxol or radiation for example.

The term HDAC refers to a family of enzymes that remove acetyl groups from a protein for example the amino groups of lysine residues at the N terminus of a histone. The HDAC can be a human HDAC including HDAC1 HDAC2 HDAC3 HDAC4 HDAC5 HDAC6 HDAC7 HDAC8 HDAC9 HDAC10 and HDAC11. The HDAC also can be derived from a protozoal or fungal source.

HDAC inhibitors HDACIs typically contain three structural elements which are analogous to the structure of acetyllysine. These three structural elements are a zinc binding group M which is responsible for chelation of zinc in the active site a linker region L which binds to the hydrophobic channel that connects the active site to the outer enzyme surface and a capping group Cap which interacts with residues at the outer enzyme surface.

As used herein the terms treat treating treatment and the like refer to eliminating reducing relieving reversing and or ameliorating a disease or condition and or symptoms associated therewith. Although not precluded treating a disease or condition does not require that the disease condition or symptoms associated therewith be completely eliminated including the treatment of acute or chronic signs symptoms and or malfunctions. As used herein the terms treat treating treatment and the like may include prophylactic treatment which refers to reducing the probability of redeveloping a disease or condition or of a recurrence of a previously controlled disease or condition in a subject who does not have but is at risk of or is susceptible to redeveloping a disease or condition or a recurrence of the disease or condition treatment therefore also includes relapse prophylaxis or phase prophylaxis. The term treat and synonyms contemplate administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention to an individual in need of such treatment. A treatment can be orientated symptomatically for example to suppress symptoms. It can be effected over a short period be oriented over a medium term or can be a long term treatment for example within the context of a maintenance therapy.

The term therapeutically effective amount or effective dose as used herein refers to an amount of the active ingredient s that when administered is are sufficient to efficaciously deliver the active ingredient s for the treatment of condition or disease of interest to an individual in need thereof. In the case of a cancer or other proliferation disorder the therapeutically effective amount of the agent may reduce i.e. retard to some extent and preferably stop unwanted cellular proliferation reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. retard to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. retard to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth reduce HDAC signaling in the target cells and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To extent the administered compound or composition prevents growth and or kills existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic.

The term container means any receptacle and closure therefor suitable for storing shipping dispensing and or handling a pharmaceutical product.

The term insert means information accompanying a pharmaceutical product that provides a description of how to administer the product along with the safety and efficacy data required to allow the physician pharmacist and patient to make an informed decision regarding use of the product. The package insert generally is regarded as the label for a pharmaceutical product.

 Concurrent administration administered in combination simultaneous administration and similar phrases mean that two or more agents are administered concurrently to the subject being treated. By concurrently it is meant that each agent is administered either simultaneously or sequentially in any order at different points in time. However if not administered simultaneously it is meant that they are administered to an individual in a sequence and sufficiently close in time so as to provide the desired therapeutic effect and can act in concert. For example a present HDACI can be administered at the same time or sequentially in any order at different points in time as a second therapeutic agent. A present HDACI and the second therapeutic agent can be administered separately in any appropriate form and by any suitable route. When a present HDACI and the second therapeutic agent are not administered concurrently it is understood that they can be administered in any order to a subject in need thereof. For example a present HDACI can be administered prior to e.g. 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours 6 hours 12 hours 24 hours 48 hours 72 hours 96 hours 1 week 2 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks 5 weeks 6 weeks 8 weeks or 12 weeks before concomitantly with or subsequent to e.g. 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours 6 hours 12 hours 24 hours 48 hours 72 hours 96 hours 1 week 2 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks 5 weeks 6 weeks 8 weeks or 12 weeks after the administration of a second therapeutic agent treatment modality e.g. radiotherapy to an individual in need thereof. In various embodiments a present HDACI and the second therapeutic agent are administered 1 minute apart 10 minutes apart 30 minutes apart less than 1 hour apart 1 hour apart 1 hour to 2 hours apart 2 hours to 3 hours apart 3 hours to 4 hours apart 4 hours to 5 hours apart 5 hours to 6 hours apart 6 hours to 7 hours apart 7 hours to 8 hours apart 8 hours to 9 hours apart 9 hours to 10 hours apart 10 hours to 11 hours apart 11 hours to 12 hours apart no more than 24 hours apart or no more than 48 hours apart. In one embodiment the components of the combination therapies are administered at 1 minute to 24 hours apart.

The use of the terms a an the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated. Recitation of ranges of values herein merely serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value and subrange is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as and like provided herein is intended to better illustrate the invention and is not a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

In particular the present invention is directed to HDACIs compositions comprising a present HDACI and therapeutic uses of the HDACIs of the following structural formula Cap L M

R independently is selected from the group consisting of null hydrogen Calkyl Cheteroalkyl Calkenyl Cperfluoroalkyl Cperfluoroalkoxy aryl heteroaryl Ccycloalkyl Cheterocycloalkyl Calkylenearyl Calkyleneheteroaryl Calkyleneheterocycloalkyl Calkylenecycloalkyl 

R independently is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Calkyl Cheteroalkyl CalkyleneNH CalkyleneNH Calkyl CalkyleneN Calkyl CalkyleneNH Calkyl CalkyleneNHC O Calkyl CalkyleneC O NH CalkyleneOH CalkyleneCN CheteroalkyleneCN CalkyleneOCalkyl CalkyleneSH CalkyleneSCalkyl CalkyleneNH SOCalkyl aryl heteroaryl Ccycloalkyl and Cheterocycloalkyl 

R Rand Rindependently are selected from the group consisting of null hydrogen Calkyl Cheteroalkyl Calkenyl Cperfluoroalkyl Cperfluoroalkoxy aryl heteroaryl Ccycloalkyl Cheterocycloalkyl Calkylenearyl Calkyleneheteroaryl Calkyleneheterocycloalkyl Calkylenecycloalkyl 

L is selected from the group consisting of null Calkylene Rsubstituted Calkylene NR C O aryl C O aryl C O Calkylene CalkyleneNR CalkylenearyleneCalkylene Calkenylene Calkdienylene Calkylenearylene Calkyleneheteroarylene Rsubstituted Calkyleneheteroarylene and CalkenylenearyleneCalkylene and Ris defined above 

Cheterocycloalkyl optionally substituted with oxo O thioxo S or both aryl optionally substituted with one or more of Calkyl C O R NH and SH 

R independently is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen C O CH Calkyl CF CHF and aryl or two Rgroups are taken together with the carbon to which they attached to form a Ccycloalkyl group 

Ris selected from the group consisting of OH N R NH OCH N CH OH Calkyl CF aryl heteroaryl Ccycloalkyl NHSOCH NHSOCF and Chaloalkyl 

Compounds of the present invention inhibit HDAC and are useful in the treatment of a variety of diseases and conditions. In particular the present HDACIs are used in methods of treating a disease or condition wherein inhibition of HDAC provides a benefit for example cancers neurological diseases neurodegenerative conditions peripheral neuropathies autoimmune diseases inflammatory diseases and conditions stroke hypertension traumatic brain injury autism and malaria. The methods comprise administering a therapeutically effective amount of a present HDACI to an individual in need thereof.

The present methods also encompass administering a second therapeutic agent to the individual in addition to a present HDACI. The second therapeutic agent is selected from agents such as drugs and adjuvants known as useful in treating the disease or condition afflicting the individual e.g. a chemotherapeutic agent and or radiation known as useful in treating a particular cancer.

As used herein the term alkyl refers to straight chained and branched saturated hydrocarbon groups nonlimiting examples of which include methyl ethyl and straight chain and branched propyl butyl pentyl hexyl heptyl and octyl groups containing the indicated number of carbon atoms. The term Cmeans the alkyl group has n carbon atoms.

The term alkylene refers to a bidentate moiety obtained by removing two hydrogen atoms from an alkane. An alkylene is positioned between two other chemical groups and serves to connect them. An example of an alkylene group is CH . An alkyl e.g. methyl or alkylene e.g. CHCH group can be substituted independently with one or more of halo trifluoromethyl trifluoromethoxy hydroxy alkoxy nitro cyano alkylamino and amino groups for example.

The term alkenyl is defined identically as alkyl except for containing a carbon carbon double bond e.g. ethenyl propenyl and butenyl. The term alkenylene is defined identically to alkylene except for containing a carbon carbon double bond. The term alkdienylene is defined identically as alkenylene except the group contains two carbon carbon double bonds either conjugated or non conjugated.

The term heteroalkyl refers to an alkyl group having one or more and typically one to three heteroatoms in the carbon chain of the alkyl group. The heteroatoms independently are selected from O S and NR wherein R is hydrogen alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl and heteroaryl. A term such as Cheteroalkyl means that the group contains 1 to 6 carbon atoms in addition to the heteroatoms.

The term perfluoroalkyl is defined as an alkyl group wherein all hydrogen atoms are replaced by fluorine atoms.

The term alkoxy is defined as OR wherein R is alkyl. The term perfluoroalkoxy is defined as an alkoxy group wherein all hydrogen atoms are replaced by fluorine atoms.

The term amino is defined as NR wherein each R group independently is hydrogen alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl Calkylenearyl heteroaryl or aryl or both R groups are taken together with the N to which they are attached to form a 4 to 8 membered ring.

As used herein the term aryl refers to a monocyclic aromatic group e.g. phenyl. Unless otherwise indicated an aryl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more and in particular one to five groups independently selected from for example halo alkyl alkenyl OCF NO CN NC OH alkoxy amino alkylamino COH COalkyl alkynyl cycloalkyl nitro sulfhydryl imino amido phosphonate phosphinate silyl alkylthio sulfonyl sulfonamide aldehyde heterocycloalkyl trifluoromethyl aryl and heteroaryl. Exemplary aryl groups include but are not limited to phenyl chlorophenyl methylphenyl methoxyphenyl trifluoromethylphenyl nitrophenyl 2 4 methoxychlorophenyl and the like.

The term arylene refers to a bidentate aryl group that bonds to two other groups and serves to connect these groups e.g. 

As used herein the term heteroaryl refers to a monocyclic ring system containing at least one nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atom in an aromatic ring. Unless otherwise indicated a heteroaryl group can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more and in particular one to four substituents selected from for example halo alkyl alkenyl OCF NO CN NC OH alkoxy amino alkylamino COH COalkyl alkynyl cycloalkyl nitro sulfhydryl imino amido phosphonate phosphinate silyl alkylthio sulfonyl sulfonamide aldehyde heterocycloalkyl trifluoromethyl aryl and heteroaryl. Examples of heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to thienyl furyl oxazolyl thiophenyl triazolyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl imidazolyl pyrimidinyl thiazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl pyrrolyl and triazinyl.

As used herein the term Ccycloalkyl means a monocyclic aliphatic ring containing three to eight carbon atoms either saturated or unsaturated.

As used herein the term heterocycloalkyl means a monocyclic or a bicyclic aliphatic ring containing 3 to 10 total atoms either saturated or unsaturated of which one to five of the atoms are independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and the remaining atoms are carbon.

The linker L can be attached to any atom D E F G W X Y or Z and in some preferred embodiments the linker L is attached to a nitrogen atom of the bicyclic ring system.

The linker L can be attached to any atom U V W X Y or Z and preferably is attached to a nitrogen or carbon atom of the ring.

In some embodiments Rsubstituents on the Cap group if present at all preferably are null hydrogen OR halo Calkyl aryl heterocycloalkyl CH heterocycloalkyl CH N R 

Additionally salts prodrugs hydrates isotopically labeled fluorescently labeled and any other therapeutically or diagnostically relevant derivations of the present HDACIs also are included in the present invention and can be used in the methods disclosed herein. The present invention further includes all possible stereoisomers and geometric isomers of the present compounds. The present invention includes both racemic compounds and optically active isomers. When a present HDACI is desired as a single enantiomer it can be obtained either by resolution of the final product or by stereospecific synthesis from either isomerically pure starting material or use of a chiral auxiliary reagent for example see Z. Ma et al. 8 6 pages 883 888 1997 . Resolution of the final product an intermediate or a starting material can be achieved by any suitable method known in the art. Additionally in situations where tautomers of a present compound is possible the present invention is intended to include all tautomeric forms of the compounds.

Prodrugs of the present compounds also are included in the present invention. It is well established that a prodrug approach wherein a compound is derivatized into a form suitable for formulation and or administration then released as a drug in vivo has been successfully employed to transiently e.g. bioreversibly alter the physicochemical properties of the compound see H. Bundgaard Ed. Design of Prodrugs Elsevier Amsterdam 1985 R. B. Silverman The Organic Chemistry of Drug Design and Drug Action Academic Press San Diego chapter 8 1992 K. M. Hillgren et al. 15 83 1995 . Specific prodrugs of HDACIs are discussed in WO 2008 055068 incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.

Compounds of the present invention can contain one or more functional groups. The functional groups if desired or necessary can be modified to provide a prodrug. Suitable prodrugs include for example acid derivatives such as amides and esters. It also is appreciated by those skilled in the art that N oxides can be used as a prodrug.

Compounds of the invention can exist as salts. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present HDACIs often are preferred in the methods of the invention. As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts or zwitterionic forms of the present compounds. Salts of the present compounds can be prepared during the final isolation and purification of the compounds or separately by reacting the compound with an acid having a suitable cation. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present compounds can be acid addition salts formed with pharmaceutically acceptable acids. Examples of acids which can be employed to form pharmaceutically acceptable salts include inorganic acids such as nitric boric hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric and phosphoric and organic acids such as oxalic maleic succinic tartaric and citric. Nonlimiting examples of salts of compounds of the invention include but are not limited to the hydrochloride hydrobromide hydroiodide sulfate bisulfate 2 hydroxyethansulfonate phosphate hydrogen phosphate acetate adipate alginate aspartate benzoate bisulfate butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate digluconate glycerolphosphate hemisulfate heptanoate hexanoate formate succinate fumarate maleate ascorbate isethionate salicylate methanesulfonate mesitylenesulfonate naphthylenesulfonate nicotinate 2 naphthalenesulfonate oxalate pamoate pectinate persulfate 3 phenylproprionate picrate pivalate propionate trichloroacetate trifluoroacetate phosphate glutamate bicarbonate paratoluenesulfonate undecanoate lactate citrate tartrate gluconate methanesulfonate ethanedisulfonate benzene sulphonate and p toluenesulfonate salts. In addition available amino groups present in the compounds of the invention can be quaternized with methyl ethyl propyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dimethyl diethyl dibutyl and diamyl sulfates decyl lauryl myristyl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides and benzyl and phenethyl bromides. In light of the foregoing any reference to compounds of the present invention appearing herein is intended to include the present compounds as well as pharmaceutically acceptable salts hydrates or prodrugs thereof.

The present compounds also can be conjugated or linked to auxiliary moieties that promote a beneficial property of the compound in a method of therapeutic use. Such conjugates can enhance delivery of the compounds to a particular anatomical site or region of interest e.g. a tumor enable sustained therapeutic concentrations of the compounds in target cells alter pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of the compounds and or improve the therapeutic index or safety profile of the compounds. Suitable auxiliary moieties include for example amino acids oligopeptides or polypeptides e.g. antibodies such as monoclonal antibodies and other engineered antibodies and natural or synthetic ligands to receptors in target cells or tissues. Other suitable auxiliaries include fatty acid or lipid moieties that promote biodistribution and or uptake of the compound by target cells see e.g. Bradley et al. . 2001 7 3229 .

The following synthetic schemes are representative of the reactions used to synthesize the present HDACIs. Modifications and alternate schemes to prepare HDACIs of the invention are readily within the capabilities of persons skilled in the art.

In the synthetic methods the examples and throughout the specification the abbreviations have the following meanings 

It should be understood that protecting groups can be utilized in accordance with general principles of synthetic organic chemistry to provide compounds of the present invention. Protecting group forming reagents are well known to persons skilled in the art for example see T. W. Greene et al. Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis Third Edition John Wiley and Sons Inc. NY N.Y. 1999 . These protecting groups are removed when necessary by appropriate basic acidic or hydrogenolytic conditions known to persons skilled in the art. Accordingly compounds of the present invention not specifically exemplified herein can be prepared by persons skilled in the art.

General Information for Synthetic Procedures H NMR and C NMR spectra were obtained using a Bruker spectrometer with TMS as an internal standard. The following standard abbreviations indicating multiplicity were used s singlet d doublet t triplet q quartet quint quintet m multiplet dd double doublet dt double triplet and br broad. LRMS experiments were carried out using an Agilent 1100 series LC MSD instrument with MeCN and HO spiked with 0.1 formic acid as the mobile phase. HRMS experiments were carried out using a Shimadzu IT TOF instrument with MeCN and HO spiked with 0.1 formic acid as the mobile phase. Reaction progress was monitored by TLC using precoated silica gel plates Merck silica gel 60 F254 250 m thickness . Automated column chromatography was performed using the CombiFlash Rf apparatus available from Teledyne ISCO and prepacked cartridges 25 or 50 g loaded with Merck silica gel 40 60 mesh along with the following conditions Method 1 100 hexane 5 min 0 50 EtOAc hexane 25 min 50 EtOAc hexane 5 min. Method 2 100 DCM 5 min 0 10 MeOH DCM 20 min 10 MeOH DCM 5 min. Flow rate 30 40 mL min depending on cartridge size with wavelength monitoring at 254 and 280 nm. Preparatory HPLC was carried out using a Shimadzu preparative liquid chromatograph with the following specifications Column ACE 5 AQ 150 21.2 mm with 5 m particle size. Method 1 25 100 MeOH HO 30 min 100 MeOH 5 min 100 25 MeOH HO 4 min 25 MeOH HO 1 min. Method 2 8 100 MeOH HO 30 min 100 MeOH 5 min 100 8 MeOH HO 4 min 8 MeOH HO 1 min. Flow rate 17 mL min with wavelength monitoring at 254 and 280 nm. Both solvents were spiked with 0.05 TFA. Where applicable unless otherwise specified resin bound bicarbonate was used to neutralize the trifluoroacetic acid salts obtained during preparatory HPLC purification. Analytical HPLC was carried out using an Agilent 1100 series instrument with the following specifications Column Luna 5 C18 2 100A 150 4.60 mm with 5 m particle size. Flow rate 1.4 mL min with wavelength monitoring at 254 nm. Gradient 10 100 MeOH HO 18 min 100 MeOH 3 min 100 10 MeOH HO 3 min 10 MeOH HO 5 min. Both solvents were spiked with 0.05 TFA.

General Procedure A NaH 1 mol equiv was dissolved in anhydrous DMF 5 mL mmol under argon and cooled to 0 C. To it was added the appropriate bicyclic Cap group 1 mol equiv dissolved in anhydrous DMF 3 mL mmol . The reaction was stirred for 15 min at 0 C. followed by the addition of methyl 4 bromomethyl benzoate 1 mol equiv in anhydrous DMF 2 mL mmol . The reaction was stirred for 2 h at 70 C. and then quenched by the addition of HO 30 mL . The organic products were extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL washed with HO 2 30 mL brine 15 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo.

General Procedure B The appropriate ester was dissolved suspended in MeOH 3 mL mmol and added to a mixture of NHOH.HCl 6 mol equiv in MeOH 3 mL mmol which was followed by the addition of NaOMe 8 mol equiv of a 25 solution in MeOH . The mixture was stirred for 2 h at 0 C. followed by stirring for 22 h at RT. When the reaction was complete as evidenced by TLC the reaction was quenched by the addition of trifluoroacetic acid 5 mol equiv of a 10 solution in DCM filtered and the filter cake was washed with additional MeOH 5 15 mL . The combined filtrate and wash were then concentrated in vacuo to yield the crude product which was dissolved in DMF and purified by preparatory HPLC.

General Procedure C To a round bottom flask charged with methyl 4 bromomethyl benzoate 1 mol equiv in DMF 4 mL mmol was added the appropriate 2 subsitituted benzimidazole 1 mol equiv and KCO 2 mol equiv in succession. The resulting mixture was allowed to stir at 80 C. for 2 16 hrs and the reaction was monitored by TLC. Upon completion the reaction was quenched with HO 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with HO 2 15 mL brine 15 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo.

General Procedure D Solid NaOH 8 mol equiv was dissolved in a 50 aq. solution of NHOH 50 mol equiv at 0 C. Then a solution of the appropriate ester 1 mol equiv in THF MeOH 9 9 mL mmol was added dropwise to the aforementioned vigorously stirred hydroxylamine solution. Upon complete addition the ice bath was removed and the reation was allowed to stir 15 min. The reaction was quenched with AcOH 10 mol equiv and concentrated in vacuo to yield the crude product which was dissolved in DMF and purified by preparatory HPLC.

General Procedure E The appropriate boronic acid 1 mol equiv methyl 4 bromomethyl benzoate 1.2 mol equiv tetrakis triphenylphosphine Pd 0 0.02 mol equiv and KCO 2.1 mol equiv were placed in a dry sealed tube under Ar atmosphere. Diglyme 4 mL mmol and HO 2 mL mmol were added through a rubber septa which was immediately replaced by the screw on cap. The reaction was heated to 100 C. and stirred for 4 h. Then the reaction was diluted with HO 20 mL and the organic products were extracted with DCM 3 15 mL washed with brine 15 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo.

An example of a present HDACI having a bicyclic Cap group is prepared as follows see also General Synthetic Scheme A 

The title compound was prepared from 1H indole 0.500 g 4.27 mmol according to General Procedure A and purified using automated column chromatography method 1. The product was isolated as a white solid 0.860 g 76 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.05 d J 8.23 Hz 2H 7.79 d J 6.9 Hz 1H 7.24 m 6H 6.70 d J 3.05 d J 3.05 Hz 1H 5.35 s 2H 3.97 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.7 142.9 136.3 130.1 129.6 128.9 128.4 126.7 122.0 121.2 119.9 109.7 102.2 52.2 49.8. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 266.1176 m z found M H 266.1182 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 1H indol 1 yl methyl benzoate 1 0.840 g 3.17 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 1 and isolated as a white solid 0.443 g 53 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.14 S 1H 9.01 br 1H 7.67 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 7.56 d J 7.77 Hz 1H 7.52 d J 3.1 Hz 1H 7.42 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.23 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 7.09 t J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.02 t J 7.5 Hz 1H 6.50 d J 3.0 Hz 1H 5.48 s 2H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 164.4 141.9 136.1 132.3 129.6 128.7 127.6 127.3 121.7 120.9 119.6 110.5 101.6 49.2. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 267.1128 m z found M H 267.1137 m z.

The title compound was prepared from 2 methyl 1H indole 2.00 g 15.3 mmol according to General Procedure A and purified using automated column chromatography method 1. The product was isolated as a white solid 2.87 g 67 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.89 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.48 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.33 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.09 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.01 m 2H 6.32 s 1H 5.49 s 2H 3.81 s 3H 2.34 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 166.4 144.5 137.2 137.1 130.0 128.9 128.2 126.8 120.9 119.8 119.7 109.9 100.7 52.5 45.9 12.8.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 2 methyl 1H indol 1 yl methyl benzoate 3 0.259 g 0.937 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 1 and isolated as a light brown solid 86 mg 33 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.13 s 1H 8.96 br 1H 7.65 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.46 d J 7.1 Hz 1H 7.33 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.00 m 4H 6.31 s 1H 5.45 s 2H 2.36 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 166.0 142.5 136.6 136.0 128.9 127.9 127.0 126.1 120.6 119.5 119.4 108.6 100.5 45.7 12.3. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 281.1285 m z found M H 281.1283 m z.

The title compound was prepared from 3 methyl 1H indole 0.500 g 3.81 mmol according to General Procedure A and purified using automated column chromatography method 1. The product was isolated as a white solid 0.668 g 63 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.04 d J 7.9 Hz 2H 7.72 d J 7.4 Hz 1H 7.24 m 5H 6.94 s 1H 5.31 s 2H 3.97 s 3H 2.46 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.7 143.1 136.5 130.0 129.4 129.0 126.6 125.7 1221.8 119.1 119.0 109.3 71.8 52.1 49.5 9.6. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 280.1332 m z found M H 280.1322 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 3 methyl 1H indol 1 yl methyl benzoate 5 0.200 g 0.716 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 1 and isolated as a white solid 0.108 g 54 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.13 s 1H 8.99 s 1H 7.66 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.50 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.37 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.23 m 3H 7.06 td J 8.0 1.2 Hz 1H 7.03 td J 7.6 0.8 Hz 1H 5.39 s 2H 2.27 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 166.48 142.50 136.57 131.08 128.99 126.97 126.49 125.78 121.15 118.39 118.35 110.36 109.09 48.62 8.25. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 279.1139 m z found M H 279.1144 m z.

The title compound was prepared from 2 3 dimethyl 1H indole 0.500 g 3.44 mmol according to General Procedure A and purified using automated column chromatography method 1. The product was isolated as a viscous yellow oil 0.652 g 65 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.95 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.57 dd J 3.1 Hz 2.2 Hz 1H 7.16 m 3H 7.04 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 5.36 s 2H 3.91 s 3H 2.32 s 3H 2.29 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.8 143.5 136.3 132.2 130.1 129.2 128.7 126.0 121.0 119.1 118.1 108.6 107.4 52.1 46.4 10.1 8.9. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 294.1489 m z found M H 294.1503 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 2 3 dimethyl 1H indol 1 yl methyl benzoate 7 0.632 g 2.15 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 1 and isolated as a white solid 0.487 g 77 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.13 s 1H 9.00 br 1H 7.66 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.45 d J 6.9 Hz 1H 7.32 d J 7.3 Hz 1H 7.01 m 4H 5.43 s 2H 2.27 s 3H 2.22 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 164.4 142.4 136.4 133.0 132.1 128.6 127.6 126.5 120.9 119.0 118.1 109.6 106.5 45.9 10.3 9.2. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 295.1441 m z found M H 295.1453 m z.

To a solution of methyl 4 1H indol 1 yl methyl benzoate 1 0.250 g 0.94 mmol and benzaldehyde 96 L 0.94 mmol in DCM 10 mL at 0 C. was added SiEtH 0.45 mL 2.83 mmol followed by trifluoroacetic acid 0.14 mL 1.88 mmol . The reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h. The reaction was then adjusted to pH 10 with 2 N NaOH and the organic products were extracted with DCM 3 15 mL . The combined organic fractions were washed with brine 15 mL dried with NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The title compound was isolated using automated column chromatography method 1 0.262 g 78 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.97 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.56 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.32 7.27 m 4H 7.23 7.10 m 6H 6.87 s 1H 5.33 s 2H 4.15 s 2H 3.91 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.8 143.0 141.2 136.8 130.1 129.5 128.7 128.4 128.3 126.6 126.5 126.0 122.1 119.5 119.3 115.4 109.6 52.2 49.7 31.6.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 3 benzyl 1H indol 1 yl methyl benzoate 9 0.200 g 0.563 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 1 and isolated as a white solid 80 mg 40 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.20 br 1H 7.67 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.45 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 7.36 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 7.27 m 6H 7.15 d J 6.7 Hz 1H 7.07 t J 7.9 Hz 1H 6.96 t J 7.8 Hz 1H 5.40 s 2H 4.05 s 2H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 164.48 142.06 141.91 136.63 132.18 128.83 128.68 128.06 127.57 127.41 127.29 126.17 121.83 119.44 119.19 114.53 110.45 49.01 31.30. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 357.1598 m z found M H 357.1597 m z.

The title compound was prepared from 9H purine 0.500 g 3.81 mmol according to General Procedure A substituting KOBu for NaH and purified using automated column chromatography method 2. The pH was adjusted to 10 with 1 N NaOH prior to extraction with EtOAc. The product was isolated as a white solid 0.287 g 64 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.20 s 1H 8.94 s 1H 8.78 s 1H 7.92 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.44 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 5.62 s 2H 3.82 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 165.9 152.3 151.2 148.0 147.2 141.7 133.7 129.7 129.2 127.8 52.2 46.1. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 269.1033 m z found M H 269.1032 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 9H purin 9 yl methyl benzoate 11 0.287 g 1.07 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as a white solid 288 mg 45 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.18 br 1H 9.20 s 1H 8.95 s 1H 8.78 s 1H 7.71 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.40 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 5.58 s 2H 3.73 br 1H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 164.2 152.6 151.5 148.4 147.5 139.8 134.0 132.9 128.0 127.8 46.5. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 270.0986 m z found M H 270.0992 m z.

The title compound was prepared from 9H purine 0.500 g 3.81 mmol according to General Procedure A substituting KOBu for NaH and purified using automated column chromatography method 2. The pH was adjusted to 10 with 1 N NaOH prior to extraction with EtOAc. The product was isolated as a viscous yellow oil 0.108 g 24 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.16 s 1H 9.02 s 1H 8.97 s 1H 7.94 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.51 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 5.74 s 2H 3.83 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 165.9 160.4 152.0 150.2 141.2 140.6 129.8 129.5 128.0 125.0 52.2 48.4. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 269.1033 m z found M H 269.1036 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 7H purin 7 yl methyl benzoate 13 0.108 g 0.40 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as a white solid 50 mg 46 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.21 br 1H 9.16 s 1H 9.00 s 1H 8.95 s 1H 7.73 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.47 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 6.75 br 1H 5.68 s 2H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 164.1 160.7 152.5 150.3 141.2 139.3 133.1 128.2 127.9 125.3 48.8. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 270.0986 m z found M H 270.0984 m z.

Tryptophol 0.500 g 3.10 mmol and EtN 1 mL were dissolved in DCM 2 mL and then mesyl chloride 0.24 mL 3.102 mmol was added dropwise at RT. The reaction was stirred for 3 h and then volatiles were removed in vacuo. The crude mesylate was taken up in DCM 3 mL and to it was added 1 methylpiperazine 1.72 mL 15.5 mmol and EtN 1 mL . The reaction was heated to 40 C. and stirred overnight. After completion the reaction mixture was poured into cold water the pH was adjusted to 10 with 1 N NaOH and the organic products were extracted with DCM 3 15 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 15 mL dried with NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Automated column chromatography method 2 was used to isolate the title compound 0.42 g 56 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.54 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.34 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.10 t J 7.1 Hz 1H 7.03 t J 7.3 Hz 1H 6.98 s 1H 2.87 t J 7.8 Hz 2H 2.58 t J 5.9 Hz 2H 2.38 br 8H 2.17 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 136.7 127.4 121.8 121.0 118.3 118.0 112.4 111.0 58.9 54.1 52.2 44.6 22.2. ESI HRMS calc. for CHN M H 244.1808 m z found M H 244.1797 m z.

The title compound was prepared from 3 2 4 methyl piperazin 1 yl ethyl 1H indole 15 0.400 g 1.64 mmol according to General Procedure A substituting KOBu for NaH . The pH was adjusted to 10 with 1 N NaOH prior to extraction with EtOAc. The product was purified via automated column chromatography method 2 0.412 g 64 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.79 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.56 d J 7.0 Hz 1H 7.04 m 6H 5.14 s 2H 3.76 s 3H 2.90 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.63 t J 8.6 Hz 2H 2.46 br 8H 2.23 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.2 143.3 136.2 129.1 128.6 127.8 126.1 125.4 121.2 118.4 118.2 112.6 109.1 58.4 53.8 51.9 50.8 48.4 44.3 21.8. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 392.2333 m z found M H 392.2343 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from 4 3 2 4 Methyl piperazin 1 yl ethyl indol 1 ylmethyl benzoic acid methyl ester 16 0.412 g 1.05 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as a white solid 0.265 g 64 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.67 d J 7.8 Hz 3H 7.42 m 2H 7.24 d J 7.9 Hz 2H 7.12 t J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.04 t J 7.4 Hz 1H 5.43 s 2H 3.81 m 4H 3.53 br 4H 3.40 br 2H 3.25 br 2H 2.84 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 163.9 141.4 136.1 131.9 127.3 127.2 127.1 127.0 121.8 119.0 118.9 110.3 109.2 55.6 49.6 48.7 48.0 42.2 19.4. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 393.2285 m z found M H 393.2299 m z.

The title compound was prepared from 2 1H indol 3 yl N N dimethylethanamine 0.130 g 0.69 mmol according to General Procedure A. The pH was adjusted to 10 with 1 N NaOH prior to extraction with EtOAc. The product was purified via automated column chromatography method 2 0.174 g 61 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.97 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.65 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.17 m 5H 6.99 s 1H 5.34 s 2H 3.91 s 3H 3.04 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.75 m 2H 2.43 s 6H .

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 3 2 dimethylamino ethyl 1H indol 1 yl methyl benzoate 18 0.412 g 1.05 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as a white solid 18 mg 11 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.66 m 3H 7.29 m 2H 7.31 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.13 m 2H 5.41 s 2H 3.48 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 3.24 t J 8.3 Hz 2H 2.97 s 6H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 166.33 141.99 136.78 131.29 127.48 127.05 126.74 126.65 121.88 119.23 118.09 109.73 109.73 108.70 57.65 48.90 42.12 20.35. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 338.1863 m z found M H 338.1865 m z.

Methyl 4 2 methyl 1H indol 1 yl methyl benzoate 3 0.500 g 1.90 mmol and dimethylformiminium chloride 0.200 g 2.15 mmol were heated to reflux in a solution of DCM 5 mL and DMF 2 mL for 20 h. The reaction was then cooled to RT and DCM 50 mL was added along with sat. NaHCO 20 mL . The organic fraction was isolated and the aqueous solution was further extracted with DCM 2 20 mL . The combined organic fractions were washed with HO 20 mL brine 20 mL dried with NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The desired product was purified via automated column chromatography method 2 0.221 g 37 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.94 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 7.69 m 1H 7.14 m 3H 7.02 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 5.38 s 2H 3.90 s 3H 3.62 s 2H 2.35 s 3H 2.30 s 6H .

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 3 dimethylamino methyl 2 methyl 1H indol 1 yl methyl benzoate 20 0.124 g 1.78 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as a white solid 0.100 g 80 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.72 br 1H 7.68 d J 7.8 Hz 2H 7.38 br 1H 7.21 br 2H 7.08 d J 7.9 Hz 2H 5.56 s 2H 4.57 s 2H 2.91 s 6H 2.48 s 3H .

Methyl 4 1H indol 1 yl methyl benzoate 1 was dissolved in MeOH 10 mL and to it was added a 30 solution of ammonium hydroxide 5 mL . The reaction was heated to reflux for 16 h after which it was cooled to RT and HO 30 mL was added. The organic products were extracted with EtOAc 3 15 mL washed with brine 15 mL dried with NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was dissolved in DMF and purified by preparatory HPLC method 1. The title compound was isolated as a white solid 37 mg 13 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.79 d J 7.9 Hz 2H 7.58 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.29 m 2H 7.19 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.11 t J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.04 t J 7.5 Hz 1H 6.53 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 5.47 s 2H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 170.59 142.41 136.24 132.64 128.93 128.14 127.57 126.36 121.13 120.32 118.99 109.29 101.14 48.93. ESI LRMS M H 251.1 m z. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 251.1179 m z found M H 251.1179 m z.

The title compound was prepared from 1H indole 0.55 g 4.69 mmol and 1 4 bromomethyl phenyl ethanone 1.00 g 4.69 mmol following a procedure similar to General Procedure A. The title compound was purified using automated column chromatography method 1 0.410 g 35 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.90 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.69 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.21 m 6H 6.61 d J 3.1 Hz 1H 5.41 s 2H 2.58 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 198.58 143.95 136.22 136.04 128.94 128.39 128.17 126.51 121.19 120.37 119.06 109.29 101.24 48.95 25.23. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 250.1226 m z found M H 250.1232 m z.

The title compound was prepared from 1H indole 0.500 g 4.27 mmol and 3 bromopropanamide 0.650 g 4.27 mmol following a procedure similar to General Procedure A. The title compound was purified by preparatory HPLC method 1 and isolated as a white solid 0.339 g 42 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.53 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 7.44 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 7.19 d J 2.9 Hz 1H 7.16 t J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.03 t J 7.4 Hz 1H 6.42 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 4.47 t J 6.8 Hz 2H 2.70 t J 6.8 Hz 2H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 172.4 135.9 129.0 128.6 121.4 120.8 119.4 110.2 101.0 42.3 36.2. ESI LRMS M H 189.1 m z. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 189.1022 m z found M H 189.1030 m z.

NaH 0.444 g 11.1 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous DMF 5 mL under argon and cooled to 0 C. To it was added 1H indole 1.00 g 8.54 mmol dissolved in anhydrous DMF 5 mL . The reaction was stirred for 15 min at 0 C. followed by the addition of ethyl 3 bromopropanoate 1.10 mL 8.54 mmol . The reaction was then stirred for 3 h at 70 C. and then quenched by the addition of HO 30 mL . The organic products were extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL washed with HO 2 30 mL brine 15 mL dried with NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified using automated column chromatography method 1 to yield ethyl 3 1H indol 1 yl propanoate 0.759 g 3.49 mmol . The title compound was then prepared from ethyl 3 1H indol 1 yl propanoate 0.486 g 5.52 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 1 and isolated as a white solid 0.104 g 23 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.53 d J 7.83 Hz 1H 7.42 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.16 m 2H 7.02 t J 7.4 Hz 1H 6.41 d J 2.8 Hz 1H 4.48 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 2.56 t J 6.6 Hz 2H . ESI LRMS M H 205.1 m z. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 205.0972 m z found M H 205.0971 m z.

The title compound was prepared from 1H benzo d imidazole 236 mg 2.0 mmol according to General Procedure C and purified using automated column chromatography method 2. The product was isolated as an off white waxy solid 501 mg 94 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.02 7.98 m 3H 7.85 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.31 7.28 m 2H 7.26 7.22 m 3H 5.43 s 2H 3.91 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.41 143.95 143.13 140.46 133.72 130.28 130.14 126.81 123.26 122.43 120.54 109.83 52.19 48.45 ESI LRMS M H 267 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 1H benzo d imidazol 1 yl methyl benzoate 26 93 mg 0.349 mmol according to General Procedure D prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as a white solid 81 mg 87 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.21 br s 1H 9.35 s 1H 7.83 m 1H 7.74 m 3H 7.47 m 4H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 163.59 142.78 138.12 135.10 131.65 127.80 127.41 125.03 116.58 112.53 48.64. ESI LRMS M H 268 m z. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 268.1081 m z found M H 268.1080 m z.

A round bottom flask charged with tryptamine 2.0 g 12.5 mmol in DCM 20 mL was added EtN 3.5 mL 25 mmol under an atmosphere of Ar and cooled to 0 C. The solution was then added mesyl chloride 1.5 mL 18.7 mmol and the resulting reaction mixture was stir to RT for 2 h. The reaction was quenched with water 20 mL and extracted with DCM 3 20 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 30 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The desired product was purified via automated column chromatography method 2 2.1 g 70 and isolated as a brown oil. H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.55 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.33 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.08 m 2H 7.01 td J 8.0 0.8 Hz 1H 3.35 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.99 t J 7.2 Hz 2H 2.76 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 138.28 128.77 123.91 122.54 119.85 119.34 112.93 112.43 45.09 40.02 27.60.

The title compound was prepared from N 2 1H indol 3 yl ethyl methanesulfonamide 28 300 mg 1.26 mmol according to General Procedure A substituting KOBu for NaH and purified using automated column chromatography method 2. The product was isolated as a brown waxy solid 0.399 g 82 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.20 br s 1 H 8.01 d J 8.0 Hz 2 H 7.42 m 3 H 7.33 d J 8.4 Hz 1 H 7.17 t J 7.6 Hz 1 H 7.08 t J 7.2 Hz 1 H 6.95 d J 1.6 Hz 1 H 4.45 s 2 H 3.92 s 3 H 3.49 t J 7.6 Hz 2 H 2.96 t J 7.6 Hz 2 H 2.74 s 3 H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.69 141.53 136.17 129.95 129.80 126.96 122.14 122.13 119.49 118.40 112.09 111.27 52.13 51.23 48.35 38.90 24.82. ESI LRMS M H 386 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 3 2 methylsulfonamido ethyl 1H indol 1 yl methyl benzoate 29 155 mg 0.401 mmol according to General Procedure D prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as a beige solid 55 mg 35 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.22 br s 1H 10.82 s 1H 7.87 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.48 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.31 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.11 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 7.05 td J 7.6 0.8 Hz 1H 6.94 td J 7.6 0.8 Hz 1H 4.48 s 2H 3.35 m 2H 2.97 s 3H 2.84 m 2H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 164.00 140.73 136.15 131.99 128.01 127.09 126.84 122.98 121.00 118.32 118.07 111.42 110.70 50.53 48.42 38.02 24.48. LR ESI MS m z 388 M H . ESI HRMS calc. for CHNOS M H 388.1326 m z found M H 388.1319 m z.

The title compound was prepared from 2 methyl 1H benzo d imidazole 264 mg 2.0 mmol according to General Procedure C and purified using automated column chromatography method 2. The product was isolated as an off white waxy solid 298 mg 53 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.95 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.72 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.21 m 3H 7.08 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 5.32 s 2H 3.87 s 3H 2.53 s 2H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.32 151.60 142.56 140.77 135.18 130.18 129.78 126.04 122.33 122.08 119.14 109.06 71.82 52.06 46.69 13.81. ESI LRMS M H 281 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 2 methyl 1H benzo d imidazol 1 yl methyl benzoate 31 157 mg 0.560 according to General Procedure D prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as an off white solid 55 mg 35 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.27 br s 1H 7.74 m 3H 7.69 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 7.44 m 2H 7.34 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 5.72 s 2H 2.80 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 164.05 152.38 138.48 133.78 133.10 132.92 127.90 127.55 125.24 125.01 115.64 112.54 47.33 12.72. LR ESI MS m z 282 M H . ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 282.1237 m z found M H 282.1244 m z.

To a round bottom flask charged with 4 tert butoxycarbonyl amino butanoic acid 0.5 g 2.46 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added EtN 1.03 mL 7.36 mmol EDCI 706 mg 2.46 mmol DMAP 30 mg 0.246 mmol and allowed to stir overnight at RT. The reaction was quenched with water 10 mL and extracted with DCM 2 10 mL . Combined organics washed with 10 citric acid 10 mL brine 10 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude material was dissolved in AcOH 7 mL and stirred at 65 C. for 1 h. The mixture was diluted with saturated bicarbonate 15 mL and extracted with DCM 2 15 mL and again worked up in the above manner. The title compound was obtained as a white solid 433 mg 64 and used without further purification. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.57 m 2H 7.20 m 2H 4.98 s 2H 3.24 m 2H 2.95 m 2H 1.92 m 2H 1.47 s 9H . ESI LRMS M H 276 m z.

The title compound was prepared from tert Butyl 3 1H benzo d imidazol 2 yl propyl carbamate 33 433 mg 1.57 mmol using General Procedure C. The crude material was taken up into acetone 7 mL added conc. HCl 3 equiv and allowed to stir at 50 C. for 4 h. The reaction was quenched with saturated bicarbonate and worked up in the usual manner affording the title compound as a viscous brown oil 458 mg 90 used without further purification. H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.95 m 3H 7.63 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.44 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.33 m 1H 7.23 m 2H 7.18 m 2H 5.58 s 2H 3.86 m 3H 2.93 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.06 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 1.98 m 2H . ESI LRMS M H 324 m z.

To a round bottom flask charged with methyl 4 2 3 aminopropyl 1H benzo d imidazol 1 yl methyl benzoate 34 135 mg 0.417 mmol in DCM 5 mL was added EtN 0.076 mL 0.543 mmol and catalytic DMAP 5 mg 0.042 mmol . The reaction was cooled to 0 C. and then AcO 0.051 mL 0.543 mmol was added dropwise. The resulting solution was allowed to warm to RT and stirred for 18 h after which the reaction was quenched with HO 10 mL and extracted with chloroform 3 10 mL . Combined extracts were washed with brine 20 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified using automated column chromatography method 2 and isolated as a white waxy solid 53 mg 35 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.96 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.73 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.24 m 3H 7.07 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 6.73 br s 1H 5.38 s 2H 3.88 s 3H 3.33 m 2H 2.89 t J 7.2H 2H 2.05 m 2H 1.86 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 170.44 166.32 154.48 141.76 140.60 134.98 130.26 129.91 126.00122.81 122.49 118.89 109.42 52.12 46.60 38.91 26.42 24.92 22.97. ESI LRMS M H 366 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 2 3 acetamidopropyl 1H benzo d imidazol 1 yl methyl benzoate 35 53 mg 0.145 mmol according to General Procedure D prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as a white solid 36 mg 52 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.01 m 1H 7.78 m 4H 7.52 m 2H 7.33 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 5.78 s 2H 3.18 m 4H 1.92 m 2H 1.78 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 169.12 163.16 157.65 154.11 137.32 132.19 131.80 127.09 126.62 125.30 124.98 114.39 112.34 46.74 37.29 26.03 22.62 22.19. ESI LRMS M H 367 m z. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 367.1765 m z found M H 367.1757 m z.

tert Butyl 2 1H benzo d imidazol 2 yl ethylcarbamate 390 mg 1.70 mmol was subjected to general procedure C to produce the ester intermediate methyl 4 2 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino ethyl 1H benzo d imidazol 1 yl methyl benzoate. The crude material was dissolved in acetone 2 mL mmol ester conc. HCl 3 mol equiv was added and then the reaction was stirred for 16 h. The precipitate was filtered washed with acetone dried and used without further purification. The dihydrochloride intermediate 131 mg 0.343 mmol was dissolved in MeOH 3 mL and cooled to 0 C. AcOH 0.100 M was added followed by NaCNBH 43 mg 0.686 mmol under an atmosphere of Ar. Lastly a solution of CHO 0.1 mL 37 wt soln in MeOH 1 mL was added dropwise. The resulting reaction mixture was allowed to stir 4.5 h to RT. The reaction was quenched with 1N HCl 10 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL . The aqueous layer was made basic with 2 N NaOH and again extracted with EtOAc 3 10 mL . The basic extraction was washed with brine 20 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. Material was purified via automated column chromatography method 2 to yield a white waxy solid 88 mg 76 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.98 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.76 J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.23 m 3H 7.11 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 5.42 s 2H 3.89 s 3H 3.00 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.83 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.26 s 6H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.44 153.45 142.61 140.99 135.17 130.26 129.86 126.10 122.58 122.25 119.42 109.27 57.13 52.15 46.68 45.29 26.07. ESI LRMS M H 338 m z M Na 360 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 2 2 dimethylamino ethyl 1H benzo d imidazol 1 yl methyl benzoate 37 88 mg 0.261 mmol according to General Procedure D prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as a white solid 53 mg 60 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.68 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.58 m 1H 7.42 m 1H 7.16 m 4H 5.55 s 2H 2.96 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.64 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 2.13 s 6H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 163.65 153.91 142.34 139.87 135.25 132.50 127.17 126.34 121.77 121.42 118.47 110.10 56.75 45.80 44.98 25.15. ESI LRMS M H 339 m z. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 339.1816 m z found M H 339.1811 m z.

The title compound was synthesized by subjecting 2 isopropyl 1H benzo d imidazole 209 mg 1.30 mmol to General Procedure C automated column chromatography method 2 followed by General Procedure D prep. HPLC method 2 . The desired product was isolated as a white solid 23 mg 25 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.95 s 1H 9.01 s 1H 7.68 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.60 m 1H 7.40 m 1H 7.16 m 2H 7.10 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 5.57 s 2H 3.25 quint J 6.8 Hz 1H 1.26 s 3H 1.24 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 163.84 159.85 142.26 140.43 135.12 131.98 127.32 126.20 121.77 121.44 118.63 110.20 45.54 25.71 21.75 ESI LRMS M H 310 m z. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 310.1550 m z found M H 310.1563 m z.

Two examples of present HDACIs having a monocyclic Cap group are prepared as follows see also General Synthetic Schemes B and C 

The title compound was prepared from 1H pyrrole 0.150 g 2.24 mmol according to General Procedure A substituting KOBu for NaH and purified using automated column chromatography method 1. The product was isolated as a clear viscous oil 0.432 g 90 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.01 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.17 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 6.72 t J 2.0 Hz 2H 6.24 t J 2.1 Hz 2H 5.15 s 2H 3.93 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.7 143.4 130.0 129.5 126.7 121.2 108.9 53.0 52.1.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 1H pyrrol 1 yl methyl benzoate 40 0.400 g 1.86 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 1 and isolated as a white solid 0.225 g 56 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.70 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.20 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 6.73 t J 2.0 Hz 2H 6.11 t J 2.1 Hz 2H 5.17 s 2H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 166.4 143.0 131.2 127.0 126.6 120.7 108.0 52.0. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 217.0972 m z found M H 217.0974 m z.

The title compound was prepared from 1H pyrazole 0.150 g 2.20 mmol according to General Procedure A substituting KOBu for NaH and purified using automated column chromatography method 1. The product was isolated as a viscous yellow oil 0.387 g 81 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.99 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.56 s 1H 7.41 d J 2.0 Hz 1H 7.20 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 6.30 d J 1.9 Hz 1H 5.36 s 2H 3.88 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.2 141.5 139.5 129.7 129.4 129.1 126.9 105.9 55.0 51.7. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 217.0972 m z found M H 217.0969 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 44 1H pyrazol 1 yl methyl benzoate 42 0.387 g 1.79 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 1 and isolated as a white solid 0.251 g 65 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.74 m 3H 7.55 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.27 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.37 t J 2.1 Hz 1H 5.43 s 2H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 166.3 140.9 139.3 131.7 130.5 127.1 127.0 105.7 54.3. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 218.0924 m z found M H 218.0917 m z.

The title compound was prepared from pyridin 4 ylboronic acid 0.123 g 1.00 mmol according to General Procedure E and purified using automated column chromatography method 2 20 mg 9 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 8.59 d J 6.6 Hz 2H 7.86 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 7.78 d J 6.6 Hz 2H 7.28 d J 8.3 Hz 2H 4.26 s 2H 3.74 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.7 162.3 142.4 141.2 129.9 129.3 129.1 127.2 51.3 40.8. ESI LRMS M H 228 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 pyridin 4 ylmethyl benzoate 44 0.020 g 0.09 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as a white solid 5 mg 25 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 8.74 d J 6.4 Hz 2H 7.93 d J 6.3 Hz 2H 7.78 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.43 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 4.41 s 2H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 166.1 162.4 141.4 140.8 131.3 129.3 127.5 127.1 40.7. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 229.0972 m z found M H 229.0966 m z.

The title compound was prepared from 4 dimethylamino phenylboronic acid 0.165 g 1.00 mmol according to General Procedure E and purified using automated column chromatography method 2. The product was isolated as an orange oil 0.211 g 78 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.93 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.59 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.45 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.33 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 4.10 s 2H 3.87 s 3H 3.28 s 6H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.9 146.0 142.8 141.3 130.6 129.5 128.7 128.1 120.3 51.2 45.6 40.5. ESI LRMS M H 270 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 4 dimethylamino benzyl benzoate 46 0.211 g 0.78 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as a white solid 0.140 g 66 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.69 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.53 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.42 d J 8.56 2H 7.31 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 4.09 s 2H 3.25 s 6H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 166.6 144.5 142.3 141.7 130.5 130.2 128.8 127.1 119.8 45.3 40.4. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 271.1441 m z found M H 271.1448 m z.

The title compound was prepared from 3 dimethylamino phenylboronic acid 0.165 g 1.00 mmol according to General Procedure E and purified using automated column chromatography method 2. The product was isolated as a clear oil 0.254 g 94 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.99 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 7.30 m 6H 4.08 s 2H 3.91 s 3H 3.15 s 6H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.9 144.9 144.5 143.1 130.6 130.0 128.9 128.8 128.6 119.9 117.5 52.1 45.6 41.6. ESI LRMS M H 270 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 3 dimethylamino benzyl benzoate 48 0.254 g 0.94 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as a white solid 0.117 g 46 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.70 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.50 m 3H 7.35 m 3H 4.12 s 2H 3.27 s 6H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.6 144.3 143.7 143.6 130.4 130.2 129.7 128.8 127.1 120.2 117.5 45.4 40.7. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 271.1450 m z found M H 271.1450 m z.

An example of a present HDACI having an acyclic Cap group is prepared as follows see also General Synthetic Scheme D 

The title compound was prepared from diethylamine 0.350 g 4.79 mmol according to General Procedure A substituting KOBu for NaH . The pH was adjusted to 10 with 2 N NaOH prior to extraction with EtOAc. The product was isolated as a yellow oil and did not require further purification 0.790 g 75 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 8.14 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.66 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 4.44 s 2H 3.95 s 3H 3.25 m 4H 1.37 t J 7.3 Hz 6H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 166.2 135.9 131.8 130.9 130.0 54.8 52.8 46.6 8.8. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 222.1489 m z found M H 222.1485 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 diethylamino methyl benzoate 50 0.518 g 2.34 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as a viscous yellow oil 0.448 g 56 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.72 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.42 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 3.65 s 2H 2.55 q J 7.2 Hz 4H 1.08 t J 5.0 Hz 6H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 166.3 139.5 131.9 129.7 127.0 56.1 46.4 9.3. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 223.1441 m z found M H 223.1441 m z.

The title compound was prepared from diisopropylamine 0.500 g 4.94 mmol according to General Procedure A substituting KOBu for NaH . The pH was adjusted to 10 with 2 N NaOH prior to extraction with EtOAc. The product was isolated as a yellow oil and did not require further purification 1.10 g 89 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 8.10 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.71 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 4.51 s 2H 3.93 s 3H 3.85 m 2H 1.46 dd J 6.1 Hz J 12.5 Hz 12H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 165.9 135.9 130.6 130.1 129.4 54.8 51.1 49.4 17.2 16.3. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 250.1802 m z found M H 250.1800 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 diisopropylamino methyl benzoate 52 0.750 g 3.0 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as a viscous light yellow oil 0.324 g 42 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.84 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.67 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 4.48 s 2H 3.84 m 2H 1.47 br 12H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 165.6 134.7 133.2 130.5 127.5 55.1 49.7 17.5 16.8. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 251.1754 m z found M H 251.1744 m z.

NaH 0.220 g 5.54 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous DMF 2 mL under argon and cooled to 0 C. To it was added diphenylamine 0.0.750 g 4.43 mmol dissolved in anhydrous DMF 2 mL . The reaction was stirred for 15 min at 0 C. followed by the addition of methyl 4 bromomethyl benzoate 1.02 g 4.43 mmol in anhydrous DMF 2 mL . The reaction was stirred for 2 h at 60 C. and then quenched by the addition of HO 20 mL . The organic products were extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL washed with HO 2 30 mL brine 15 mL dried with NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The title compound was purified using automated column chromatography method 1 0.746 g 53 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.00 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.45 d J 7.7 Hz 2H 7.27 m 4H 7.07 d J 7.9 Hz 4H 6.98 t J 7.3 Hz 2H 5.06 s 2H 3.92 s 3H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.9 147.8 144.8 130.0 129.4 128.9 126.5 121.7 120.7 56.3 52.0. ESI LRMS M H 318 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 diphenylamino methyl benzoate 54 0.200 g 0.33 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as a white solid 27 mg 13 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.69 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.47 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.23 t J 7.6 Hz 4H 7.05 d J 8.0 Hz 4H 6.93 t J 7.5 Hz 2H 5.07 s 2H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 164.5 147.8 143.0 131.8 129.8 127.5 126.9 121.7 120.7 55.5. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 319.1441 m z found M H 319.1447 m z.

Pyrrolidine 0.12 mL 1.52 mmol methyl 4 formylbenzoate 0.250 g 1.52 mmol NaBH OAc 0.52 g 2.4 mmol and 5 molecular sieves were dissolved in 1 2 dichloroethane 5 mL under Ar atmosphere and stirred for 24 h at RT. Then the reaction was diluted with 2 N NaOH 30 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The combined organic fractions were washed with brine 15 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified via automated column chromatography 50 100 EtOAc hexane 25 g cartridge to yield the title compound as a clear oil 0.166 g 50 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.00 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.43 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 3.92 s 3H 3.69 s 2H 2.54 br 4H 1.81 t J 3.2 Hz 4H .

The title compound was synthesized from methyl 4 pyrrolidin 1 ylmethyl benzoate 56 0.120 g 0.55 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as the trifluoroacetic acid salt 38 mg 21 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.33 s 1H 10.69 br 1H 9.15 br 1H 7.81 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.58 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 4.39 s 2H 3.22 br 4H 1.94 br 4H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 165.61 134.17 133.62 130.29 127.62 57.21 53.60 22.37. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 221.1285 m z found M H 221.1286 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from S 2 methoxymethyl pyrrolidine 0.175 g 1.52 mmol according to a procedure similar to that used for compound 56. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.99 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.42 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 4.17 d J 13.6 Hz 1H 3.92 s 3H 3.45 m 2H 3.35 m 4H 2.92 m 1H 2.74 m 1H 2.21 m 1H 1.95 m 1H 1.69 m 3H .

The title compound was synthesized from S methyl 4 2 methoxymethyl pyrrolidin 1 yl methyl benzoate 58 0.120 g 0.46 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as the trifluoroacetic acid salt 23 mg 13 . H NMR 400 MHz MeOD 7.87 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.64 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 4.67 d J 12.8 Hz 1H 4.35 d J 12.8 Hz 1H 3.85 br 1 H 3.60 d J 4.8 Hz 2H 3.42 br 4H 3.32 m 1H 2.30 m 1H 2.15 m 1H 1.95 m 2H . C NMR 100 MHz MeOD 165.55 133.74 130.81 127.55 69.86 67.00 58.08 57.75 54.48 26.03 21.81. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 265.1547 m z found M H 265.1550 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from R 2 methoxymethyl pyrrolidine 0.175 g 1.52 mmol according to a procedure similar to that used for compound 56. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.98 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.41 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 4.16 d J 13.6 Hz 1H 3.91 s 3H 3.42 m 2H 3.33 m 4H 2.92 m 1H 2.73 m 1H 2.19 m 1H 1.93 m 1H 1.70 m 3H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 166.7 144.7 129.1 128.4 128.3 76.0 62.8 58.9 58.7 54.2 51.6 28.0 22.4. ESI LRMS M H 264 m z.

The title compound was synthesized from R methyl 4 2 methoxymethyl pyrrolidin 1 yl methyl benzoate 60 0.120 g 0.46 mmol according to General Procedure B prep. HPLC method 2 and isolated as the trifluoroacetic acid salt 21 mg 12 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 11.23 s 1H 9.87 br 1H 9.02 br 1H 7.71 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.49 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 4.45 d J 12.8 Hz 1H 4.20 m 1H 3.62 br 1H 3.47 m 1H 3.39 m 1H 3.17 s 4H 3.08 br 1H 2.05 m 1H 1.87 m 1H 1.736 m 1H 1.63 m 1H . C NMR 100 MHz DMSO d 163.85 134.05 131.35 127.68 70.70 66.37 58.91 57.36 54.37 26.59 22.16. ESI HRMS calc. for CHNO M H 265.1547 m z found M H 265.1551 m z.

The effectiveness or potency of a present HDACI with respect to inhibiting the activity of an HDAC is measured by an ICvalue. The quantitative ICvalue indicates the concentration of a particular compound that is needed to inhibit the activity of an enzyme by 50 in vitro. Stated alternatively the ICvalue is the half maximal 50 inhibitory concentration of a compound tested using a specific enzyme e.g. HDAC of interest. The smaller the ICvalue the more potent the inhibiting action of the compound because a lower concentration of the compound is needed to inhibit enzyme activity by 50 .

In preferred embodiments a present HDACI inhibits HDAC enzymatic activity by about at least 50 preferably at least about 75 at least 90 at least 95 or at least 99 .

Compounds of the present invention were tested for ICvalues against both HDAC6 and HDAC1. In some embodiments a present compound also was tested against HDAC1 2 3 4 5 8 10 and 11. The tested compounds showed a range of ICvalues vs. HDAC6 of about 1 nm to greater than 30 m and a range of ICvalues vs. HDAC1 of about 91 nm to greater than 30 m. Therefore in some embodiments a present HDACI is a selective HDAC6 inhibitor which because of a low affinity for other HDAC isozymes e.g. HDAC1 give rise to fewer side effects than compounds that are non selective HDAC inhibitors.

In some embodiments the present HDACIs interact with and reduce the activity of all histone deacetylases in a cell. In some preferred embodiments the present HDACIs interact with and reduce the activity of fewer than all histone deacetylases in the cell. In certain preferred embodiments the present HDACIs interact with and reduce the activity of one histone deacetylase e.g. HDAC 6 but do not substantially interact with or reduce the activities of other histone deacetylases e.g. HDAC 1 HDAC 2 HDAC 3 HDAC 4 HDAC 5 HDAC 7 HDAC 8 HDAC 9 HDAC 10 and HDAC 11 .

The present invention therefore provides HDACIs for the treatment of a variety of diseases and conditions wherein inhibition of HDAC has a beneficial effect. Preferably a present HDACI is selective for HDAC6 over the other HDAC isozymes by a factor of at least 2 at least 5 at least 10 at least 20 at least 50 at least 100 at least 500 at least 1000 at least 2000 at least 3000 and preferably up to about 4000. For example in various embodiments a present HDACI exhibits an ICvalue versus HDAC6 that is about 350 or about 1000 times less than the ICvalue vs. HDAC1 i.e. a selectivity ratio HDAC1 IC HDAC6 IC of about 350 or about 1000.

Other assays also showed a selectivity of a present HDACI for HDAC6 over HDAC1 2 3 4 5 8 10 and 11 of about 1000.

The HDAC1 2 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 and 11 assays used isolated recombinant human protein HDAC3 NcoR2 complex was used for the HDAC3 assay. Substrate for HDAC1 2 3 6 10 and 11 assays is a fluorogenic peptide from p53 residues 379 382 RHKKAc substrate for HDAC8 is fluorogenic diacyl peptide based on residues 379 382 of p53 RHKK . Acetyl Lys trifluoroacetyl AMC substrate was used for HDAC4 5 7 and 9 assays. Compounds were dissolved in DMSO and tested in 10 dose ICmode with 3 fold serial dilution starting at 30 M. Control Compound Trichostatin A TSA was tested in a 10 dose ICwith 3 fold serial dilution starting at 5 M. ICvalues were extracted by curve fitting the dose response slopes. Assays were performed in duplicate and ICvalues are an average of data from both experiments.

Human HDAC1 GenBank Accession No. NM004964 Full length with C terminal GST tag MW 79.9 kDa expressed by baculovirus expression system in Sf9 cells. Enzyme is in 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 138 mM NaCl 20 mM glutathione and 10 glycerol and stable for 6 months at 80 C. Purity is 10 by SDS PAGE. Specific Activity is 20 U g where one U 1 pmol min under assay condition of 25 mM Tris Cl pH8.0 137 mM NaCl 2.7 mM KCl 1 mM MgCl 0.1 mg ml BSA 100 M HDAC substrate and 13.2 ng l HDAC1 incubation for 30 min at 30 C.

Human HDAC6 GenBank Accession No. BC069243 Full length with N terminal GST tag MW 159 kDa expressed by baculovirus expression system in Sf9 cells. Enzyme is in 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 138 mM NaCl 20 mM glutathione and 10 glycerol and stable for 6 months at 80 C. Purity is 90 by SDS PAGE. Specific Activity is 50 U g where one U 1 pmol min under assay condition of 25 mM Tris Cl pH8.0 137 mM NaCl 2.7 mM KCl 1 mM MgCl and 0.1 mg ml BSA 30 M HDAC substrate and 5 ng l HDAC6 incubation for 60 min at 30 C.

Substrate for HDAC1 and HDAC6 Acetylated peptide substrate for HDAC based on residues 379 382 of p53 Arg His Lys Lys Ac a site of regulatory acetylation by the p300 and CBP acetyltransferases lysines 381 382 1 6 is the best for HDAC from among a panel of substrates patterned on p53 histone H3 and histone H4 acetylation sites 7.

References W. Gu et al. 1997 90 595 K. Sakaguchi et al. 1998 12 2831 L. Liu et al. 1999 19 1202 A. Ito et al. 2001 20 1331 N. A. Barley et al. 2001 8 1243 and A. Ito et al. 2002 21 6236.

HDAC1 75 nM HDAC1 and 50 M HDAC substrate are in the reaction buffer and 1 DMSO final. Incubate for 2 hours at 30 C.

HDAC6 12.6 nM HDAC6 and 50 M HDAC substrate are in the reaction buffer and 1 DMSO final. Incubate for 2 hours at 30 C.

All ICvalues are automatically calculated using the GraphPad Prism version 5 and Equation of Sigmoidal dose response variable slope 

HDAC Activity Assays HDAC assay is performed using fluorescently labeled acetylated substrate which comprises an acetylated lysine side chain. After incubation with HDAC deacetylation of the substrate sensitizes the substrate such that in a second step treatment with the detection enzyme produces a fluorophore. HDACs 1 and 6 were expressed as full length fusion proteins. Purified proteins were incubated with 50 M fluorescently labeled acetylated peptide substrate and test compound for 2 hours at RT in HDAC assay buffer containing 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 137 mM NaCl 2.7 mM KCl 1 mM MgCl 1 DMSO and 1 BSA.

Reactions were terminated by the addition of the Developer after 2 hours and the development of fluorescence signal which was relative to the amount of deacetylated peptide was monitored by time course measurement of EnVision PerkinElmer . The HDAC activity was estimated from the slope of time course measurement of the fluorescence intensity. The slope of no enzyme control substrate alone was served as background and Enzyme activity was calculated using background subtracted slope of no inhibitor control DMSO as 100 activity.

To date HDACIs have demonstrated a relatively non specific inhibition of various HDAC isozymes. Most HDACI so far identified primarily inhibit HDAC 1 2 3 and 8 producing an antiproliferative phenotype which is useful for oncology applications but not for the many non oncology applications of HDACIs. K. B. Glaser et al 2003 310 529 36. The potential toxicities associated with the inhibition of certain HDAC isozymes can lead to additional difficulties for the clinical development of pan HDAC i.e. nonselective HDAC inhibitors. Because the network of cellular effects mediated by acetylation is so vast and because inhibition of some HDAC isozymes may lead to undesirable side effects HDAC isozyme selective inhibitors hold a greater therapeutic promise than their nonselective counterparts.

As illustrated below many HDACIs of the present invention exhibit selective inhibition of HDAC6 compared to other HDAC isozymes.

Assays values are an average of two experiments. ISOX was previously found to have a low picomolar ICat HDAC6. When ISOX was tested in these assays an HDAC6 ICvalue of 2.4 nM was observed. After investigating the source of this discrepancy it was found that lack of a detergent Triton X100 in the original assay caused the anomalously high activity.

The present HDACIs demonstrate excellent HDAC6 potency and selectivity often exhibiting an ICof 1 to 5 nM at HDAC6 and 1000 to 2000 fold selectivity against HDAC1. For example 4 demonstrated an ICof 2.5 nM at HDAC6 and 2125 fold selectivity against HDAC1.

Ligand efficiency is an important metric to judge the value of potential drugs. Ligand efficiency was proposed after finding that the average molecular weight of successful drugs was lower than those at an early clinical phase thereby establishing an association between lower molecular weight and a higher chance of clinical success. C. Abad Zapatero et al. 10 464 9 2005 M. C. Wenlock et al. 46 1250 6 2003 . This observation led to the use of ligand efficiency values as an important value for determining lead and clinical candidate selection. Ligand efficiency relates binding free energy to the number of non hydrogen atoms in the equation g AG N where N is the number of non hydrogen atoms and g is ligand efficiency. A closely related value used in the analysis of deacetylase inhibitors is binding efficiency index defined as BEI pIC50 MW MW molecular weight in kDa.

With the aim of improving ligand efficiency cap group size was reduced while maintaining potency and selectivity. Table 3 shows that indole 2 methylindole and 3 methylindole cap groups had a potency at the target under 10 nM while maintaining high HDAC6 selectivity. BEI was higher for the indole capped compounds compared to Tubastatin. Substitution at the indole 3 position with ethyldimethylamine or benzyl did not enhance potency at HDAC6 relative to the 2 unsubstituted indole. Notably the benzoyl substituted compound had very low activity at HDAC1 below the cutoff value for the assay. The importance of rigidity in the cap group also was investigated through synthesis of compound 55. The diphenylamine cap group of compound 55 is not locked in a planar conformation. The diphenylamine capped compound 55 in Table 3 was more potent and selective compared to an analogous carbazole compound.

Table 3 also shows that the indole and the diphenylamine cap had reduced HDAC8 activity relative to Tubastatin. For compounds to be especially useful as molecular probes of HDAC6 activity the activity at HDAC8 should be minimized. The diphenylamine capped compound was greatly enhanced in this respect with over 500 fold selectivity for HDAC6 vs HDAC8 Likewise the 2 methyl and 3 methylindole cap groups had greater selectivity for HDAC6 over HDAC8 compared to Tubastatin.

Values are the mean of two experiments. Data are shown as ICvalues in M standard deviation. Compounds were tested in duplicate in 10 dose ICmode with 3 fold serial dilution starting from 30 M solutions. ICvalues were extracted by curve fitting the dose response slopes. Assays performed by Reaction Biology Corp.

The present compounds have been evaluated for their activity at HDAC6 and their selectivity for HDAC6 compared to HDAC1. It previously was shown that selective HDAC6 inhibitors are implicated in a variety of disease states including but not limited to arthritis autoimmune disorders inflammatory disorders cancer neurological diseases such as Rett syndrome peripheral neuropathies such as CMT stroke hypertension and diseases in which oxidative stress is a causative factor or a result thereof. It also was shown that selective HDAC6 inhibitors when administered in combination with rapamycin prolonged the lifespan of mice with kidney xenografts. This model was used to evaluate the immunosuppressant properties of the present compounds and serve as a model of transplant rejection. Furthermore it was previously shown that selective HDAC6 inhibitors confer neuroprotection in rat primary cortical neuron models of oxidative stress. These studies identified selective HDAC6 inhibitors as non toxic neuroprotective agents. The present compounds behave in a similar manner because they also are selective HDAC6 agents. The present compounds demonstrate a ligand efficiency that renders them more drug like in their physiochemical properties. In addition the present compounds maintain the potency and selectivity observed in prior HDACIs. The present compounds therefore are pharmaceutical candidates and research tools to identify the specific functions of HDAC6.

In one embodiment the present invention relates to a method of treating an individual suffering from a disease or condition wherein inhibition of HDACs provides a benefit comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a present HDACI compound to an individual in need thereof.

The methods described herein relate to the use of a present HDACI and an optional second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of diseases and conditions wherein inhibition of HDAC provides a benefit. The methods of the present invention can be accomplished by administering a present HDACI as the neat compound or as a pharmaceutical composition. Administration of a pharmaceutical composition or a neat HDACI of the present invention can be performed during or after the onset of the disease or condition of interest. Typically the pharmaceutical compositions are sterile and contain no toxic carcinogenic or mutagenic compounds that would cause an adverse reaction when administered.

In many embodiments a present HDACI is administered in conjunction with a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of a disease or condition wherein inhibition of HDAC provides a benefit. The second therapeutic agent is different from the present HDACI. A present HDACI and the second therapeutic agent can be administered simultaneously or sequentially. In addition a present HDACI and second therapeutic agent can be administered from a single composition or two separate compositions. A present HDACI and the second therapeutic agent can be administered simultaneously or sequentially to achieve the desired effect.

The second therapeutic agent is administered in an amount to provide its desired therapeutic effect. The effective dosage range for each second therapeutic agent is known in the art and the second therapeutic agent is administered to an individual in need thereof within such established ranges.

The present invention therefore is directed to compositions and methods of treating diseases or conditions wherein inhibition of HDAC provides a benefit. The present invention also is directed to pharmaceutical compositions comprising a present HDACI and an optional second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of diseases and conditions wherein inhibition of HDAC provides a benefit. Further provided are kits comprising a present HDACI and optionally a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of diseases and conditions wherein inhibition of HDAC provides a benefit packaged separately or together and an insert having instructions for using these active agents.

A present HDACI and the second therapeutic agent can be administered together as a single unit dose or separately as multi unit doses wherein the present HDACI is administered before the second therapeutic agent or vice versa. One or more dose of a present HDACI and or one or more dose of the second therapeutic agent can be administered. The present HDACIs therefore can be used in conjunction with one or more second therapeutic agents for example but not limited to anticancer agents.

Within the meaning of the present invention the term disease or condition denotes disturbances and or anomalies that as a rule are regarded as being pathological conditions or functions and that can manifest themselves in the form of particular signs symptoms and or malfunctions. As demonstrated below a present HDACI is a potent inhibitor of HDAC and can be used in treating diseases and conditions wherein inhibition of HDAC provides a benefit for example cancer a neurological disease a neurodegenerative condition traumatic brain injury stroke an inflammation an autoimmune disease autism and malaria.

In one preferred embodiment the present invention provides methods for treating cancer including but not limited to killing a cancer cell or neoplastic cell inhibiting the growth of a cancer cell or neoplastic cell inhibiting the replication of a cancer cell or neoplastic cell or ameliorating a symptom thereof said methods comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a present HDACI.

In one embodiment the invention provides a method for treating cancer comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an amount of a present HDACI or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof sufficient to treat the cancer. A present HDACI can be used as the sole anticancer agent or in combination with another anticancer treatment e.g. radiation chemotherapy and surgery.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method for increasing the sensitivity of a cancer cell to the cytotoxic effects of radiotherapy and or chemotherapy comprising contacting the cell with a present HDACI or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in an amount sufficient to increase the sensitivity of the cell to the cytotoxic effects of radiotherapy and or chemotherapy.

In a further embodiment the present invention provides a method for treating cancer comprising a administering to an individual in need thereof an amount of a present HDACI compound and b administering to the individual an amount of radiotherapy chemotherapy or both. The amounts administered are each effective to treat cancer. In another embodiment the amounts are together effective to treat cancer.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method for treating cancer said method comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising an amount of a present HDACI effective to treat cancer.

This combination therapy of the invention can be used accordingly in a variety of settings for the treatment of various cancers. In a specific embodiment the individual in need of treatment has previously undergone treatment for cancer. Such previous treatments include but are not limited to prior chemotherapy radiotherapy surgery or immunotherapy such as cancer vaccines.

In another embodiment the cancer being treated is a cancer which has demonstrated sensitivity to radiotherapy and or chemotherapy or is known to be responsive to radiotherapy and or chemotherapy. Such cancers include but are not limited to non Hodgkin s lymphoma Hodgkin s disease Ewing s sarcoma testicular cancer prostate cancer ovarian cancer bladder cancer larynx cancer cervical cancer nasopharynx cancer breast cancer colon cancer pancreatic cancer head and neck cancer esophageal cancer rectal cancer small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer brain tumors or other CNS neoplasms.

In still another embodiment the cancer being treated has demonstrated resistance to radiotherapy and or chemotherapy or is known to be refractory to radiotherapy and or chemotherapy. A cancer is refractory to a therapy when at least some significant portion of the cancer cells are not killed or their cell division is not arrested in response to therapy. Such a determination can be made either in vivo or in vitro by any method known in the art for assaying the effectiveness of treatment on cancer cells using the art accepted meanings of refractory in such a context. In a specific embodiment a cancer is refractory where the number of cancer cells has not been significantly reduced or has increased.

Other cancers that can be treated with the compounds and methods of the invention include but are not limited to cancers and metastases selected from the group consisting of solid tumors including but not limited to fibrosarcoma myxosarcoma liposarcoma chondrosarcoma osteogenic sarcoma chordoma angiosarcoma endotheliosarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphangioendotheliosarcoma synovioma mesothelioma Ewing s tumor leiornyosarcoma rhabdomyosarcoma colon cancer colorectal cancer kidney cancer pancreatic cancer bone cancer breast cancer ovarian cancer prostate cancer esophageal cancer stomach cancer oral cancer nasal cancer throat cancer squamous cell carcinoma basal cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma sweat gland carcinoma sebaceous gland carcinoma papillary carcinoma papillary adenocarcinomas cystadenocarcinoma medullary carcinoma bronchogenic carcinoma renal cell carcinoma hepatoma bile duct carcinoma choriocarcinoma seminoma embryonal carcinoma Wilms tumor cervical cancer uterine cancer testicular cancer small cell lung carcinoma bladder carcinoma lung cancer epithelial carcinoma glioma glioblastoma multiforma astrocytoma medulloblastoma craniopharyngioma ependymoma pinealoma hemangioblastoma acoustic neuroma oligodendroglioma meningioma skin cancer melanoma neuroblastoma and retinoblastoma blood borne cancers including but not limited to acute lymphoblastic leukemia acute lymphoblastic B cell leukemia acute lymphoblastic T cell leukemia acute myeloblastic leukemia acute promyelocytic leukemia acute monoblastic leukemia acute erythroleukemic leukemia acute megakaryoblastic leukemia acute myclomonocytic leukemia acute nonlymphocyctic leukemia acute undifferentiated leukemia chronic myclocytic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia hairy cell leukemia and multiple myeloma acute and chronic leukemias lymphoblastic myelogenous lymphocytic and myelocytic leukemias lymphomas Hodgkin s disease and non Hodgkin s lymphoma multiple myeloma Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia heavy chain disease and polycythemia vera.

The present HDACIs can also be administered to prevent progression to a neoplastic or malignant state including but not limited to the cancers listed above. Such prophylactic use is indicated in conditions known or suspected of preceding progression to neoplasia or cancer in particular where non neoplastic cell growth consisting of hyperplasia metaplasia or most particularly dysplasia has occurred for review of such abnormal growth conditions see Robbins and Angell 19762d Ed. W.B. Saunders Co. Philadelphia pp. 68 79 . Hyperplasia is a form of controlled cell proliferation involving an increase in cell number in a tissue or organ without significant alteration in structure or function. For example endometrial hyperplasia often precedes endometrial cancer and precancerous colon polyps often transform into cancerous lesions. Metaplasia is a form of controlled cell growth in which one type of adult or fully differentiated cell substitutes for another type of adult cell. Metaplasia can occur in epithelial or connective tissue cells. A typical metaplasia involves a somewhat disorderly metaplastic epithelium. Dysplasia is frequently a forerunner of cancer and is found mainly in the epithelia it is the most disorderly form of non neoplastic cell growth involving a loss in individual cell uniformity and in the architectural orientation of cells. Dysplastic cells often have abnormally large deeply stained nuclei and exhibit pleomorphism. Dysplasia characteristically occurs where chronic irritation or inflammation exists and often is found in the cervix respiratory passages oral cavity and gall bladder.

Alternatively or in addition to the presence of abnormal cell growth characterized as hyperplasia metaplasia or dysplasia the presence of one or more characteristics of a transformed phenotype or of a malignant phenotype displayed in vivo or displayed in vitro by a cell sample from a subject can indicate the desirability of prophylactic therapeutic administration of the composition of the invention. Such characteristics of a transformed phenotype include for example morphology changes looser substratum attachment loss of contact inhibition loss of anchorage dependence protease release increased sugar transport decreased serum requirement expression of fetal antigens disappearance of the 250 000 dalton cell surface protein.

In a specific embodiment leukoplakia a benign appearing hyperplastic or dysplastic lesion of the epithelium or Bowen s disease a carcinoma in situ are pre neoplastic lesions indicative of the desirability of prophylactic intervention.

In another embodiment fibrocystic disease cystic hyperplasia mammary dysplasia particularly adenosis benign epithelial hyperplasia is indicative of the desirability of prophylactic intervention.

The prophylactic use of the compounds and methods of the present invention are also indicated in some viral infections that may lead to cancer. For example human papilloma virus can lead to cervical cancer see e.g. Hernandez Avila et al. 1997 28 265 271 Epstein Ban virus EBV can lead to lymphoma see e.g. Herrmann et al. 2003 199 2 140 5 hepatitis B or C virus can lead to liver carcinoma see e.g. El Serag 2002 35 5 Suppl 2 572 8 human T cell leukemia virus HTLV I can lead to T cell leukemia see e.g. Mortreux et al. 2003 17 1 26 38 human herpesvirus 8 infection can lead to Kaposi s sarcoma see e.g. Kadow et al. 2002 3 11 1574 9 and Human Immune deficiency Virus HIV infection contribute to cancer development as a consequence of immunodeficiency see e.g. Dal Maso et al. 2003 4 2 110 9 .

In other embodiments a subject exhibiting one or more of the following predisposing factors for malignancy can be treated by administration of the present HDACIs and methods of the invention a chromosomal translocation associated with a malignancy e.g. the Philadelphia chromosome for chronic myelogenous leukemia t 14 18 for follicular lymphoma etc. familial polyposis or Gardner s syndrome possible forerunners of colon cancer benign monoclonal gammopathy a possible forerunner of multiple myeloma a first degree kinship with persons having a cancer or procancerous disease showing a Mendelian genetic inheritance pattern e.g. familial polyposis of the colon Gardner s syndrome hereditary exostosis polyendocrine adenomatosis medullary thyroid carcinoma with amyloid production and pheochromocytoma Peutz Jeghers syndrome neurofibromatosis of Von Recklinghausen retinoblastoma carotid body tumor cutaneous melanocarcinoma intraocular melanocarcinoma xeroderma pigmentosum ataxia telangiectasia Chediak Higashi syndrome albinism Fanconi s aplastic anemia and Bloom s syndrome see Robbins and Angell 19762d Ed. W.B. Saunders Co. Philadelphia pp. 112 113 etc. and exposure to carcinogens e.g. smoking and inhalation of or contacting with certain chemicals .

In another specific embodiment the present HDACIs and methods of the invention are administered to a human subject to prevent progression of breast colon ovarian or cervical cancer.

In one embodiment the invention provides methods for treating cancer comprising a administering to an individual in need thereof an amount of a present HDACI and b administering to the individual one or more additional anticancer treatment modality including but not limited to radiotherapy chemotherapy surgery or immunotherapy such as a cancer vaccine. In one embodiment the administering of step a is prior to the administering of step b . In another embodiment the administering of step a is subsequent to the administering of step b . In still another embodiment the administering of step a is concurrent with the administering of step b .

In one embodiment the additional anticancer treatment modality is radiotherapy and or chemotherapy. In another embodiment the additional anticancer treatment modality is surgery.

In still another embodiment the additional anticancer treatment modality is immunotherapy such as cancer vaccines.

In one embodiment a present HDACI or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered adjunctively with the additional anticancer treatment modality.

In a preferred embodiment the additional anticancer treatment modality is radiotherapy. In the methods of the present invention any radiotherapy protocol can be used depending upon the type of cancer to be treated. Embodiments of the present invention employ electromagnetic radiation of gamma radiation 10to 10m X ray radiation 10to 10m ultraviolet light 10 nm to 400 nm visible light 400 nm to 700 nm infrared radiation 700 nm to 1 mm and microwave radiation 1 mm to 30 cm .

For example but not by way of limitation X ray radiation can be administered in particular high energy megavoltage radiation of greater that 1 MeV energy can be used for deep tumors and electron beam and orthovoltage X ray radiation can be used for skin cancers. Gamma ray emitting radioisotopes such as radioactive isotopes of radium cobalt and other elements can also be administered. Illustrative radiotherapy protocols useful in the present invention include but are not limited to stereotactic methods where multiple sources of low dose radiation are simultaneously focused into a tissue volume from multiple angles internal radiotherapy such as brachytherapy interstitial irradiation and intracavitary irradiation which involves the placement of radioactive implants directly in a tumor or other target tissue intraoperative irradiation in which a large dose of external radiation is directed at the target tissue which is exposed during surgery and particle beam radiotherapy which involves the use of fast moving subatomic particles to treat localized cancers.

Many cancer treatment protocols currently employ radiosensitizers activated by electromagnetic radiation e.g. X rays. Examples of X ray activated radiosensitizers include but are not limited to metronidazole misonidazole desmethylmisonidazole pimonidazole etanidazole nimorazole mitomycin C RSU 1069 SR 4233 EO9 RB 6145 nicotinamide 5 bromodeoxyuridine BUdR 5 iododeoxyuridine IUdR bromodeoxycytidine fluorodeoxyuridine FUdR hydroxyurea cis platin and therapeutically effective analogs and derivatives of the same.

Photodynamic therapy PDT of cancers employs visible light as the radiation activator of the sensitizing agent. Examples of photodynamic radiosensitizers include the following but are not limited to hematoporphyrin derivatives PHOTOFRIN benzoporphyrin derivatives NPe6 tin etioporphyrin SnET2 pheoborbide a bacteriochlorophyll a naphthalocyanines phthalocyanines zinc phthalocyanine and therapeutically effective analogs and derivatives of the same.

Radiosensitizers can be administered in conjunction with a therapeutically effective amount of one or more compounds in addition to a present HDACI such compounds including but not limited to compounds that promote the incorporation of radiosensitizers to the target cells compounds that control the flow of therapeutics nutrients and or oxygen to the target cells chemotherapeutic agents that act on the tumor with or without additional radiation or other therapeutically effective compounds for treating cancer or other disease. Examples of additional therapeutic agents that can be used in conjunction with radiosensitizers include but are not limited to 5 fluorouracil 5 FU leucovorin oxygen carbogen red cell transfusions perfluorocarbons e.g. FLUOSOLW DA 2 3 DPG BW12C calcium channel blockers pentoxifylline antiangiogenesis compounds hydralazine and L BSO.

In a preferred embodiment a present HDACI or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered prior to the administration of radiotherapy and or chemotherapy.

In another preferred embodiment a present HDACI or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered adjunctively with radiotherapy and or chemotherapy.

A present HDACI and additional treatment modalities can act additively or synergistically i.e. the combination of a present HDACI or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and an additional anticancer treatment modality is more effective than their additive effects when each are administered alone . A synergistic combination permits the use of lower dosages of a present HDACI and or the additional treatment modality and or less frequent administration of a present HDACI and or additional treatment modality to a subject with cancer. The ability to utilize lower dosages of a present HDACI and or an additional treatment modality and or to administer a compound of the invention and the additional treatment modality less frequently can reduce the toxicity associated with the administration without reducing the efficacy of a present HDACI and or the additional treatment modality in the treatment of cancer. In addition a synergistic effect can result in the improved efficacy of the treatment of cancer and or the reduction of adverse or unwanted side effects associated with the administration of a present HDACI and or an additional anticancer treatment modality as monotherapy.

In one embodiment the present HDACIs may act synergistically with radiotherapy when administered in doses typically employed when such HDACIs are used alone for the treatment of cancer. In another embodiment the present HDACIs may act synergistically with radiotherapy when administered in doses that are less than doses typically employed when such HDACIs are used as monotherapy for the treatment of cancer.

In one embodiment radiotherapy may act synergistically with a present HDACI when administered in doses typically employed when radiotherapy is used as monotherapy for the treatment of cancer. In another embodiment radiotherapy may act synergistically with a compound of the invention when administered in doses that are less than doses typically employed when radiotherapy is used as monotherapy for the treatment of cancer.

The effectiveness of the HDACIs as HDAC inhibitors for sensitizing cancer cells to the effect of radiotherapy can be determined by the in vitro and or in vivo determination of post treatment survival using techniques known in the art. In one embodiment for in vitro determinations exponentially growing cells can be exposed to known doses of radiation and the survival of the cells monitored. Irradiated cells are plated and cultured for about 14 about 21 days and the colonies are stained. The surviving fraction is the number of colonies divided by the plating efficiency of unirradiated cells. Graphing the surviving fraction on a log scale versus the absorbed dose on a linear scale generates a survival curve. Survival curves generally show an exponential decrease in the fraction of surviving cells at higher radiation doses after an initial shoulder region in which the dose is sublethal. A similar protocol can be used for chemical agents when used in the combination therapies of the invention.

Inherent radiosensitivity of tumor cells and environmental influences such as hypoxia and host immunity can be further assessed by in vivo studies. The growth delay assay is commonly used. This assay measures the time interval required for a tumor exposed to radiation to regrow to a specified volume. The dose required to control about 50 of tumors is determined by the TCDassay.

In vivo assay systems typically use transplantable solid tumor systems in experimental subjects. Radiation survival parameters for normal tissues as well as for tumors can be assayed using in vivo methods known in the art.

The present invention provides methods of treating cancers comprising the administration of an effective amount of a present HDACI in conjunction with recognized methods of surgery radiotherapy and chemotherapies including for example chemical based mimics of radiotherapy whereby a synergistic enhancement of the effectiveness of the recognized therapy is achieved. The effectiveness of a treatment can be measured in clinical studies or in model systems such as a tumor model in mice or cell culture sensitivity assays.

The present invention provides combination therapies that result in improved effectiveness and or reduced toxicity. Accordingly in one aspect the invention relates to the use of the present HDACIs as radiosensitizers in conjunction with radiotherapy.

When the combination therapy of the invention comprises administering a present HDACI with one or more additional anticancer agents the present HDACI and the additional anticancer agents can be administered concurrently or sequentially to an individual. The agents can also be cyclically administered. Cycling therapy involves the administration of one or more anticancer agents for a period of time followed by the administration of one or more different anticancer agents for a period of time and repeating this sequential administration i.e. the cycle in order to reduce the development of resistance to one or more of the anticancer agents of being administered to avoid or reduce the side effects of one or more of the anticancer agents being administered and or to improve the efficacy of the treatment.

An additional anticancer agent may be administered over a series of sessions anyone or a combination of the additional anticancer agents listed below may be administered.

The present invention includes methods for treating cancer comprising administering to an individual in need thereof a present HDACI and one or more additional anticancer agents or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. A present HDACI and the additional anticancer agent can act additively or synergistically. Suitable anticancer agents include but are not limited to gemcitabine capecitabine methotrexate taxol taxotere mereaptopurine thioguanine hydroxyurea cyclophosphamide ifosfamide nitrosoureas mitomycin dacarbazine procarbizine etoposide teniposide campatheeins bleomycin doxorubicin idarubicin daunorubicin dactinomycin plicamycin mitoxantrone L asparaginase doxorubicin epirubicin 5 fluorouracil 5 FU taxanes such as docetaxel and paclitaxel leucovorin levamisole irinotecan estramustine etoposide nitrogen mustards BCNU nitrosoureas such as carmustine and lomustine platinum complexes such as cisplatin carboplatin and oxaliplatin imatinib mesylate hexamethylmelamine topotecan tyrosine kinase inhibitors tyrphostins herbimycin A genistein erbstatin and lavendustin A.

In one embodiment the anti cancer agent can be but is not limited to a drug selected from the group consisting of alkylating agents nitrogen mustards cyclophosphamide trofosfamide chlorambucil nitrosoureas carmustine BCNU lomustine CCNU alkylsulphonates busulfan treosulfan triazenes plant alkaloids vinca alkaloids vineristine vinblastine vindesine vinorelbine taxoids DNA topoisomcrase inhibitors epipodophyllins 9 aminocamptothecin camptothecin crisnatol mitomycins mitomycin C anti metabolites anti folates DHFR inhibitors trimetrexate IMP dehydrogenase inhibitors mycophenolic acid tiazofurin ribavirin EICAR ribonucleotide reductase inhibitors hydroxyurea deferoxamine pyrimidine analogs uracil analogs floxuridine doxifluridine ratitrexed cytosine analogs cytarabine ara C cytosine arabinoside fludarabine purine analogs mercaptopurine thioguanine DNA antimetabolites 3 HP 2 deoxy 5 fluorouridine 5 HP alpha TGDR aphidicolin glycinate ara C 5 aza 2 deoxycytidine beta TGDR cyclocytidine guanazole inosine glycodialdehyde macebecin II pyrazoloimidazole hormonal therapies receptor antagonists anti estrogen tamoxifen raloxifene megestrol LHRH agonists goserelin leuprolide acetate anti androgens flutamide bicalutamide retinoids deltoids cis retinoic acid vitamin A derivative all trans retinoic acid ATRA IV vitamin D3 analogs E1 1089 CB 1093 ICH 1060 photodynamic therapies vertoporfin BPD MA phthalocyanine photosensitizer Pc4 demethoxy hypocrellin A 2BA 2 DMHA cytokines interferon interferon I3 interferon tumor necrosis factor angiogenesis inhibitors angiostatin plasminogen fragment antiangiogenic antithrombin UI angiozyme ABT 627 Bay 12 9566 benefin bevacizumab BMS 275291 cartilage derived inhibitor CDI CAI CD59 complement fragment CEP 7055 Col 3 combretastatin A 4 endostatin collagen XVIII fragment fibronectin fragment Gro beta halofuginone heparinases heparin hexasaccharide fragment HMV833 human chorionic gonadotropin hCG IM 862 interferon inducible protein IP 10 interleukin 12 kringle 5 plasminogen fragment marimastat metalloproteinase inhibitors UMPs 2 methoxyestradiol MMI 270 CGS 27023A MoAb IMC I C11 neovastat NM 3 panzem P1 88 placental ribonuclease inhibitor plasminogen activator inhibitor platelet factor 4 PF4 prinomastat prolactin 161 D fragment proliferin related protein PRP PTK 787 ZK 222594 retinoids solimastat squalamine SS 3304 SU 5416 SU 6668 SU 11248 tetrahydrocortisol S tetrathiomolybdate thalidomide thrombospondin 1 TSP 1 TNP 470 transforming growth factor beta TGF 11 vasculostatin vasostatin calreticulin fragment ZD 6126 ZD 6474 farnesyl transferase inhibitors FTI bisphosphonates antimitotic agents allocolchicine halichondrin B colchicine colchicine derivative dolstatin 10 maytansine rhizoxin thiocolchicine trityl cysteine isoprenylation inhibitors dopaminergic neurotoxins 1 methyl 4 phenylpyridinium ion cell cycle inhibitors staurosporine actinomycins actinomycin D dactinomycin bleomycins bleomycin A2 bleomycin B2 peplomycin anthracycline adriamycin epirubicin pirarnbicin zorubicin mitoxantrone MDR inhibitors verapamil Ca ATPase inhibitors and thapsigargin.

Other anti cancer agents that may be used in the present invention include but are not limited to acivicin aclarubicin acodazole hydrochloride acronine adozelesin aldesleukin altretamine arnbomycin ametantrone acetate aminoglutethimide amsacrine anastrozole anthramycin asparaginase asperlin azacitidine azetepa azotomycin batimastat benzodepa bicalutamide bisantrene hydrochloride bisnafide dimesylate bizelcsin bleomycin sulfate brequinar sodium bropirimine busul fan cactinomycin calusterone caracemide carbetimer carmustine carubicin hydrochloride carzelesin cedefingol chlorambucil cirolemycin cisplatin cladribine crisnatol mesylate cyclophosphamide cytarabine dacarbazine dactinomycin daunorubicin hydrochloride decitabine dexorrnaplatin dezaguanine dezaguanine mesylate diaziquone docetaxel doxorubicin hydrochloride droloxifene droloxifene citrate dromostanolone propionate duazomycin edatrexate eflomithine hydrochloride elsamitrucin enloplatin enpromate epipropidine epirubicin hydrochloride erbulozole esorubicin hydrochloride estramustine estramustine phosphate sodium etanidazole etoposide phosphate etoprine fadrozole hydrochloride fazarabine fenretinide floxuridine fludarabine phosphate fluorouracil fluorocitabine fosquidone fostriecin sodium gemcitabine hydrochloride hydroxyurea idarubicin hydrochloride ifosfamide ilmofosine interleukin II including recombinant interleukin II or rIL2 interferon alfa 2a interferon alfa 2b interferon alfa n1 interferon alfa n3 interferon beta Ia interferon gamma Ib iproplatin irinotecan hydrochloride lanreotide acetate letrozole leuprolide acetate liarozole hydrochloride lometrexol sodium lomustine losoxantrone hydrochloride masoprocol maytansine mecchlorethamine hydrochloride megestrol acetate melengestrol acetate melphalan menogaril mercaptopurine methotrexate sodium metoprine meturedepa mitindomide mitocarcin mitocromin mitogillin mitomalcin mitomycin mitusper mitotane mitoxantrone hydrochloride mycophenolic acid nocodazole nogalamycin ormaplatin oxisuran pegaspargase peliomycin pentamustine peplomycin sulfate perfosfamide pipobroman piposulfan piroxantrone hydrochloride plicamycin plomestane porfimer sodium porfiromycin prednimustine procarbazine hydrochloride puromycin puromycin hydrochloride pyrazofurin riboprine rogletimide safingol safingol hydrochloride semustine simtrazene sparfosate sodium sparsornycin spirogermanium hydrochloride spiromustine spiroplatin streptonigrin streptozocin sulofenur talisomycin tecogalan sodium tegafur teloxantrone hydrochloride temoporfin teroxirone testolactone thiamiprine thioguanine thiotepa tiazofurin tirapazamine toremifene citrate trestolone acetate triciribine phosphate trimetrexate trimetrexate glucuronate triptorelin tubulozole hydrochloride uracit mustard uredepa vapreotide verteporfln vinblastine sulfate vincristine sulfate vindesine vindesine sulfate vinepidine sulfate vinglycinate sulfate vinleurosine sulfate vinorelbine tartrate vinrosidine sulfate vinzolidine sulfate vorozolc zeniplatin zinostatin zorubicin hydrochloride.

Further anti cancer drugs that can be used in the present invention include but are not limited to 17 AAG 20 epi 1 25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 5 ethynyluracil abiraterone aclarubicin acylfulvene adecypenol adozelesin aldesleukin ALL TK antagonists altretamine ambamustine amidox amifostine aminolevulinic acid amrubicin amsacrine anagrelide anastrozole andrographolide angiogenesis inhibitors antagonist D antagonist G antarelix anti dorsalizing morphogenetic protein 1 antiandrogen prostatic carcinoma antiestrogen antineoplaston antisense oligonucleotides aphidicolin glycinate apoptosis gene modulators apoptosis regulators apurinic acid ara CDP DL PTBA arginine deaminase asulacrine atamestane atrimustine axinastatin 1 axinastatin 2 axinastatin 3 azasetron azatoxin azatyrosine baccatin III derivatives balanol batimastat BCR ABL antagonists benzochlorins benzoylstaurosporine beta lactam derivatives beta alethine betaclarnycin B betulinic acid bFGF inhibitor bicalutamide bisantrene bisaziridinylsperrnine bisnafide bistratene A bizelesin bortezomib breflate bropirimine budotitane buthionine sulfoximine calcipotriol calphostin C camptothecin derivatives canarypox IL 2 carboxamide amino triazole carboxyamidotriazole CaRest M3 CARN 700 cartilage derived inhibitor carzelesin casein kinase inhibitors castanospermine cecropin B cetrorelix chlorins chloroquinoxaline sulfonamide cicaprost cis porphyrin cladribine clomifene analogues clotrimazole collismycin A collismycin B combretastatin A4 combretastatin analogue conagenin crambescidin 816 crisnatol cryptophycin 8 cryptophycin A derivatives curacin A cyclopentanthraquinones cycloplatam cypemycin cytarabine ocfosfate cytolytic factor cytostatin dacliximab decitabine dehydrodidemnin B deslorelin dexamethasone dexifosfamide dexrazoxane dexveraparnil diaziquone didemnin B didox diethylnorspermine dihydro 5 azacytidine dihydrotaxol 9 dioxamycin diphenyl spiromustine docetaxel docosanol dolasetron doxifluridine droloxifene dronabinol duocarmycin SA ebselen ecomustine edelfosine edrecolomab eflomithine elemene emitefur epirubicin epristeride estramustine analogue estrogen agonists estrogen antagonists etanidazole etoposide phosphate exemestane fadrozole fazarabine fenretinide filgrastim finasteride flavopiridol flezelastine fluasterone fltidarabine fluorodaunoruniein hydrochloride forfenimex formestane fostriecin fotemustine gadolinium texaphyrin gallium nitrate galocitabine ganirelix gelatinase inhibitors glutathione inhibitors hepsulfam heregulin hexamethylene bisacetamide hypericin ibandronic acid idarubicin idoxifene idramantone ilmofosine ilomastat imidazoacridones imiquimod immunostimulant peptides insulin like growth factor 1 receptor inhibitor interferon agonists interferons interleukins iobenguane iododoxorubiein ipomeanol 4 iroplact irsogladine isobengazole isohomohalicondrin B itasetron jasplakinolide kahalalide F larnellarin N triacetate lanreotide leinamycin lenograstim lentinan sulfate leptolstatin letrozole leukemia inhibiting factor leukocyte alpha interferon leuprolide estrogen progesterone leuprorelin levamisole liarozole linear polyamine analogue lipophilic disaccharide peptide lipophilic platinum complexes lissoclinamide 7 lobaplatin lombricine lometrexol lonidamine losoxantrone lovastatin loxoribine lurtotecan lutetium texaphyrin lysofylline lytic peptides maitansine mannostatin A marimastat masoprocol maspin matrilysin inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors menogaril merbarone meterelin methioninase metoclopramide MIF inhibitor mifepristone miltefosine mirimostim mismatched double stranded RNA mitoguazone mitolactol mitomycin analogues mitonafide mitotoxin fibroblast growth factor saporin mitoxantrone mofarotene molgramostim monoclonal antibody human chorionic gonadotrophin monophosphoryl lipid A myobacterium cell wall sk mopidamol multiple drug resistance gene inhibitor multiple tumor suppressor 1 based therapy mustard anti cancer agent mycaperoxide B mycobacterial cell wall extract myriaporone N acetyldinaline N substituted benzamides nafarelin nagrestip naloxone pentazocine napavin naphterpin nartograstim nedaplatin nemorubicin neridronic acid neutral endopeptidase nilutamide nisamycin nitric oxide modulators nitroxide antioxidant nitrullyn 06 benzylguanine octreotide okicenone oligonucleotides onapristone ondansetron ondansetron oracin oral cytokine inducer ormaplatin osaterone oxaliplatin oxaunomycin paclitaxel paclitaxel analogues paclitaxel derivatives palauamine palmitoylrhizoxin pamidronic acid panaxytriol panomifene parabactin pazelliptine pegaspargase peldesine pentosan polysulfate sodium pentostatin pentrozole perflubron perfosfamide perillyl alcohol phenazinomycin phenylacetate phosphatase inhibitors picibanil pilocarpine hydrochloride pirarubicin piritrexim placetin A placetin B plasminogen activator inhibitor platinum complex platinum complexes platinum triamine complex porfimer sodium porfiromycin prednisone acridones prostaglandin J2 proteasome inhibitors protein A based immune modulator protein kinase C inhibitor protein kinase C inhibitors microalgal protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitors purine nucleoside phosphorylase inhibitors purpurins pyrazoloaeridine pyridoxylated hemoglobin polyoxyethylene conjugate raf antagonists raltitrexed ramosetron ras farnesyl protein transferase inhibitors ras inhibitors ras GAP inhibitor retelliptine demethylated rhenium Re 186 etidronate rhizoxin ribozymes RH retinamide rogletimide rohitukine romurtide roquinimex rubiginone BI ruboxyl safingol saintopin SarCNU sarcophytol A sargramostim Sdi 1 mimetics semustine senescence derived inhibitor 1 sense oligonucleotides signal transduction inhibitors signal transduction modulators single chain antigen binding protein sizofiran sobuzoxane sodium borocaptate sodium phenylacetate solverol somatomedin binding protein sonermin sparfosic acid spicamycin D spiromustine splenopentin spongistatin 1 squalamine stem cell inhibitor stem cell division inhibitors stipiamide stromelysin inhibitors sulfinosine superactive vasoactive intestinal peptide antagonist suradista suramin swainsonine synthetic glycosaminoglycans tallimustine tamoxifen methiodide tauromustine tazarotene tecogalan sodium tegafur tellurapyrylium telomerase inhibitors temoporfin temozolomide teniposide tetrachlorodecaoxide tetrazomine thaliblastine thiocoraline thrombopoietin thrombopoietin mimetic thymalfasin thymopoietin receptor agonist thymotrinan thyroid stimulating hormone tin ethyl etiopurpurin tirapazamine titanocene bichloride topsentin toremifene totipotent stem cell factor translation inhibitors tretinoin triacetyluridine triciribine trimetrexate triptorelin tropisetron turosteride tyrosine kinase inhibitors tyrphostins UBC inhibitors ubenimex urogenital sinus derived growth inhibitory factor urokinase receptor antagonists vapreotide variolin B vector system erythrocyte gene therapy velaresol veramine verdins verteporfin vinorelbine vinxaltine vitaxin vorozole zanoterone zeniplatin zilascorb and zinostatin stimalamer.

It is a further aspect of the invention that the present HDACIs can be administered in conjunction with chemical agents that are understood to mimic the effects of radiotherapy and or that function by direct contact with DNA. Preferred agents for use in combination with the present HDACIs for treating cancer include but are not limited to cis diamminedichloro platinum II cisplatin doxorubicin 5 fluorouracil taxol and topoisomerase inhibitors such as etoposide teniposide irinotecan and topotecan.

Additionally the invention provides methods of treatment of cancer using the present HDACIs as an alternative to chemotherapy alone or radiotherapy alone where the chemotherapy or the radiotherapy has proven or can prove too toxic e.g. results in unacceptable or unbearable side effects for the subject being treated. The individual being treated can optionally be treated with another anticancer treatment modality such as chemotherapy surgery or immunotherapy depending on which treatment is found to be acceptable or bearable.

The present HDACIs can also be used in an in vitro or ex vivo fashion such as for the treatment of certain cancers including but not limited to leukemias and lymphomas such treatment involving autologous stem cell transplants. This can involve a multi step process in which the subject s autologous hematopoietic stem cells are harvested and purged of all cancer cells the subject is then administered an amount of a present HDACI effective to eradicate the subject s remaining bone marrow cell population then the stem cell graft is infused back into the subject. Supportive care then is provided while bone marrow function is restored and the subject recovers.

The present methods for treating cancer can further comprise the administration of a present HDACI and an additional therapeutic agent or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or hydrates thereof. In one embodiment a composition comprising a present HDACI is administered concurrently with the administration of one or more additional therapeutic agent s which may be part of the same composition or in a different composition from that comprising the present HDACI. In another embodiment a present HDACI is administered prior to or subsequent to administration of another therapeutic agent s .

In the present methods for treating cancer the other therapeutic agent may be an antiemetic agent. Suitable antiemetic agents include but are not limited to metoclopromide domperidone prochlorperazine promethazine chlorpromazine trimethobenzamide ondansetron granisetron hydroxyzine acethylleucine monoethanolamine alizapride azasetron benzquinamide bietanautine bromopride buclizine clebopride cyclizine dimenhydrinate diphenidol dolasetron meclizine methallatal metopimazine nabilone oxyperndyl pipamazine scopolamine sulpiride tetrahydrocannabinols thiethylperazine thioproperazine and tropisetron.

In a preferred embodiment the antiemetic agent is granisetron or ondansetron. In another embodiment the other therapeutic agent may be an hematopoietic colony stimulating factor. Suitable hematopoietic colony stimulating factors include but are not limited to filgrastim sargramostim molgramostim and epoietin alfa.

In still another embodiment the other therapeutic agent may be an opioid or non opioid analgesic agent. Suitable opioid analgesic agents include but are not limited to morphine heroin hydromorphone hydrocodone oxymorphone oxycodone metopon apomorphine normorphine etorphine buprenorphine meperidine lopermide anileridine ethoheptazine piminidine betaprodine diphenoxylate fentanil sufentanil alfentanil remifentanil levorphanol dextromethorphan phenazocine pentazocine cyclazocine methadone isomethadone and propoxyphene. Suitable non opioid analgesic agents include but are not limited to aspirin celecoxib rofecoxib diclofinac diflusinal etodolac fenoprofen flurbiprofen ibuprofen ketoprofen indomethacin ketorolac meclofenamate mefanamic acid nabumetone naproxen piroxicam and sulindac.

In still another embodiment the other therapeutic agent may be an anxiolytic agent. Suitable anxiolytic agents include but are not limited to buspirene and benzodiazepines such as diazepam lorazepam oxazapam chlorazepate clonazepam chlordiazepoxide and alprazolam.

In addition to treating cancers and sensitizing a cancer cell to the cytotoxic effects of radiotherapy and chemotherapy the present HDACIs are used in methods of treating diseases conditions and injuries to the central nervous system such as neurological diseases neurodegenerative disorders and traumatic brain injuries TBIs . In preferred embodiments a present HDACI is capable of crossing the blood brain barrier to inhibit HDAC in the brain of the individual.

It has been shown that HDAC6 inhibition protects against neuronal degeneration and stimulates neurite outgrowth in dorsal root ganglion neurons therefore indicating methods of treating CNS diseases. Accordingly present HDACI compounds were examined in a model of oxidative stress induced by homocysteic acid HCA . This model leads to depletion of glutathione the major intracellular antioxidant. HDAC6 inhibition rescues neuronal death in this model possibly by causing hyperacetylation of peroxiredoxins. Previous work reported that nonselective hydroxamic acid HDACIs displayed considerable toxicity to the primary cortical neurons. A. P. Kozikowski et al. 2007 50 3054 61. 

In the HCA induced neurodegeneration assays TSA was moderately neuroprotective at 0.5 M although protection declined at higher concentrations due to dose dependant neurotoxicity . Compounds of the present invention displayed dose dependent protection against HCA induced neuronal cell death starting at 10 M with near complete protection at 10 M . This compares well with published results showing that Tubacin induces tubulin acetylation at 5 M and protects prostate cancer LNCaP cells from hydrogen peroxide induced death at 8 M via peroxiredoxin acetylation. R. B. Parmigiani et al. 2008 105 9633 8. Importantly when tested at all of the concentrations shown the present HDACI compounds exhibited no toxicity indicating that neurotoxicity is likely a product of class I HDAC inhibition and not a property inherent to hydroxamic acids. These results demonstrate that HDAC6 inhibition provides a method for treating neurodegenerative conditions.

The data summarized in was obtained according to the following neuroprotective assay. Primary cortical neuron cultures were obtained from the cerebral cortex of fetal Sprague Dawley rats embryonic day 17 . All experiments were initiated 24 hours after plating. Under these conditions the cells are not susceptible to glutamate mediated excitotoxicity. For cytotoxicity studies cells were rinsed with warm PBS then placed in minimum essential medium Invitrogen containing 5.5 g liter glucose 10 fetal calf serum 2 mM L glutamine and 100 M cystine. Oxidative stress was induced by the addition of the glutamate analog homocysteate HCA 5 mM to the media. HCA was diluted from 100 fold concentrated solutions that were adjusted to pH 7.5. In combination with HCA neurons were treated with either TSA or a present HDACI compound at the indicated concentrations. Viability was assessed after 24 hours by the MTT assay 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyltetrazolium bromide method.

The present HDACI compounds also provide a therapeutic benefit in models of peripheral neuropathies such as CMT. HDAC6 inhibitors have been found to cross the blood nerve barrier and rescue the phenotype observed in transgenic mice exhibiting symptoms of distal hereditary motor neuropathy. Administration of HDAC6 inhibitors to symptomatic mice increased acetylated tubulin levels restored proper mitochondrial motility and axonal transport and increased muscle re innervation. Other peripheral neuropathies include but are not limited to giant axonal neuropathy and various forms of mononeuropathies polyneuropathies autonomic neuropathies and neuritis.

The present HDACI compounds also ameliorate associative memory loss following A elevation. In this test mice were infused with A 42 via cannulas implanted into dorsal hippocampus 15 minutes prior to training. The test compounds are dosed ip 25 mg kg 2 hours before training. Fear learning was assessed 24 hours later.

Contextual fear conditioning performed 24 hours after training shows a reduction of freezing in A infused mice compared to vehicle infused mice. Treatment with a present compound ameliorates deficit in freezing responses in A infused mice and has no effect in vehicle infused mice. A test compound alone does not affect the memory performance of the mice. In addition treatment had no effects on motor sensorial or motivational skills assessed using the visible platform test in which the compounds are injected twice a day for two days. During these experiments no signs of overt toxicity including changes in food and liquid intake weight loss or changes in locomotion and exploratory behavior are observed.

These results demonstrate that the HDACIs of the present invention are beneficial against impairment of associative memory following A elevation.

The present HDACIs therefore are useful for treating a neurological disease by administration of amounts of a present HDACI effective to treat the neurological disease or by administration of a pharmaceutical composition comprising amounts of a present HDACI effective to treat the neurological disease. The neurological diseases that can be treated include but are not limited to Huntington s disease lupus schizophrenia multiple sclerosis muscular dystrophy dentatorubralpallidoluysian atrophy DRRLA spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy SBMA and fine spinocerebellar ataxias SCA1 SCA2 SCA3 MJD Machado Joseph Disease SCA6 and SCA7 drug induced movement disorders Creutzfeldt Jakob disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Pick s disease Alzheimer s disease Lewy body dementia cortico basal degeneration dystonia myoclonus Tourette s syndrome tremor chorea restless leg syndrome Parkinson s disease Parkinsonian syndromes anxiety depression psychosis manic depression Friedreich s ataxia Fragile X syndrome spinal muscular dystrophy Rett syndrome Rubinstein Taybi syndrome Wilson s disease multi infarct state CMT GAN and other peripheral neuropathies.

In a preferred embodiment the neurological disease treated is Huntington s disease Parkinson s disease Alzheimer s disease spinal muscular atrophy lupus or schizophrenia.

A present HDACI also can be used with a second therapeutic agent in methods of treating conditions diseases and injuries to the CNS. Such second therapeutic agents are those drugs known in the art to treat a particular condition diseases or injury for example but not limited to lithium in the treatment of mood disorders estradiol benzoate and nicotinamide in the treatment of Huntington s disease.

The present HDACIs also are useful in the treatment of TBIs. Traumatic brain injury TBI is a serious and complex injury that occurs in approximately 1.4 million people each year in the United States. TBI is associated with a broad spectrum of symptoms and disabilities including a risk factor for developing neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer s disease.

TBI produces a number of pathologies including axonal injury cell death contusions and inflammation. The inflammatory cascade is characterized by proinflammatory cytokines and activation of microglia which can exacerbate other pathologies. Although the role of inflammation in TBI is well established no efficacious anti inflammatory therapies are currently available for the treatment of TBI.

Several known HDAC inhibitors have been found to be protective in different cellular and animal models of acute and chronic neurodegenerative injury and disease for example Alzheimer s disease ischemic stroke multiple sclerosis MS Huntington s disease HD amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS spinal muscular atrophy SMA and spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy SBMA . A recent study in experimental pediatric TBI reported a decrease in hippocampal CA3 histone H3 acetylation lasting hours to days after injury. These changes were attributed to documented upstream excitotoxic and stress cascades associated with TBI. HDACIs also have been reported to have anti inflammatory actions acting through acetylation of non histone proteins. The HDAC6 selective inhibitor 4 dimethylamino N 5 2 mercaptoacetylamino pentyl benzamide DMA PB was found to be able to increase histone H3 acetylation and reduce microglia inflammatory response following traumatic brain injury in rats which demonstrates the utility of HDACIs as therapeutics for inhibiting neuroinflammation associated with TBI.

The present HDACIs therefore also are useful in the treatment of inflammation and strokes and in the treatment of autism and autism spectrum disorders. The present HDACIs further can be used to treat parasitic infections e.g. malaria toxoplasmosis trypanosomiasis helminthiasis protozoal infections see Andrews et al. 2000 30 6 761 768 .

In certain embodiments the compound of the invention can be used to treat malaria. A present HDACI can be co administered with an antimalarial compound selected from the group consisting of aryl amino alcohols cinchona alkaloids 4 aminoquinolines type 1 or type 2 folate synthesis inhibitors 8 aminoquinolines antimicrobials peroxides naphthoquinones and iron chelating agents. The antimalarial compound can be but is not limited to quinine quinidine mefloquine halfantrine chloroquine amodiaquine proguanil chloroproquanil pyrimethamine primaquine 8 4 amino 1 methylbutyl amino 2 6 dimethoxy 4 methyl 5 3 trifluoromethyl phenoxy quinoline succinate WR238 605 tetracycline doxycycline clindamycin azithromycin fluoroquinolones artemether areether artesunate artelinic acid atovaquone and deferrioxamine. In a preferred embodiment the antimalarial compound is chloroquine.

The present HDACIs also can be used as imaging agents. In particular by providing a radiolabeled isotopically labeled or fluorescently labeled HDACI the labeled compound can image HDACs tissues expressing HDACs and tumors. Labeled HDACIs of the present invention also can image patients suffering from a cancer or other HDAC mediated diseases e.g. stroke by administration of an effective amount of the labeled compound or a composition containing the labeled compound. In preferred embodiments the labeled HDACI is capable of emitting positron radiation and is suitable for use in positron emission tomography PET . Typically a labeled HDACI of the present invention is used to identify areas of tissues or targets that express high concentrations of HDACs. The extent of accumulation of labeled HDACI can be quantified using known methods for quantifying radioactive emissions. In addition the labeled HDACI can contain a fluorophore or similar reporter capable of tracking the movement of particular HDAC isoforms or organelles in vitro.

The present HDACIs useful in the imaging methods contain one or more radioisotopes capable of emitting one or more forms of radiation suitable for detection by any standard radiology equipment such as PET SPECT gamma cameras MRI and similar apparatus. Preferred isotopes including tritium H and carbon C . Substituted HDACIs of the present invention also can contain isotopes of fluorine F and iodine I for imaging methods. Typically a labeled HDACI of the present invention contains an alkyl group having a C label i.e. a C methyl group or an alkyl group substituted with F I I I or a combination thereof.

Fluorescently labeled HDACIs of the present invention also can be used in the imaging method of the present invention. Such compounds have an FITC carbocyamine moiety or other fluorophore which will allow visualization of the HDAC proteins in vitro.

The labeled HDACIs and methods of use can be in vivo and particularly on humans and for in vitro applications such as diagnostic and research applications using body fluids and cell samples. Imaging methods using a labeled HDACI of the present invention are discussed in WO 03 060523 designating the U.S. and incorporated in its entirety herein. Typically the method comprises contacting cells or tissues with a radiolabeled isotopically labeled fluorescently labeled or tagged such as biotin tagged compound of the invention and making a radiographic fluorescent or similar type of image depending on the visualization method employed i.e. in regard to radiographic images a sufficient amount to provide about 1 to about 30 mCi of the radiolabeled compound.

Preferred imaging methods include the use of labeled HDACIs of the present invention which are capable of generating at least a 2 1 target to background ratio of radiation intensity or more preferably about a 5 1 about 10 1 or about 15 1 ratio of radiation intensity between target and background.

In preferred methods the labeled HDACIs of the present invention are excreted from tissues of the body quickly to prevent prolonged exposure to the radiation of the radiolabeled compound administered to the individual. Typically labeled HDACIs of the present invention are eliminated from the body in less than about 24 hours. More preferably labeled HDACIs are eliminated from the body in less than about 16 hours 12 hours 8 hours 6 hours 4 hours 2 hours 90 minutes or 60 minutes. Typically preferred labeled HDACIs are eliminated in about 60 to about 120 minutes.

In addition to isotopically labeled and fluorescently labeled derivatives the present invention also embodies the use of derivatives containing tags such as biotin for the identification of biomolecules associated with the HDAC isoforms of interest for diagnostic therapeutic or research purposes.

The present HDACIs also are useful in the treatment of autoimmune diseases and inflammations. Compounds of the present invention are particularly useful in overcoming graft and transplant rejections and in treating forms of arthritis.

Despite successes of modern transplant programs the nephrotoxicity cardiovascular disease diabetes and hyperlipidemia associated with current therapeutic regimens plus the incidence of post transplant malignancies and graft loss from chronic rejection drive efforts to achieve long term allograft function in association with minimal immunosuppression Likewise the incidence of inflammatory bowel disease IBD including Crohn s disease and ulcerative colitis is increasing. Animal studies have shown that T regulatory cells Tregs expressing the forkhead transcription family member Foxp3 are key to limiting autoreactive and alloreactive immunity. Moreover after their induction by costimulation blockade immunosuppression or other strategies Tregs may be adoptively transferred to na ve hosts to achieve beneficial therapeutic effects. However attempts to develop sufficient Tregs that maintain their suppressive functions post transfer in clinical trials have failed. Murine studies show that HDACIs limit immune responses at least in significant part by increasing Treg suppressive functions R. Tao et al. 13 1299 1307 2007 and that selective targeting of HDAC6 is especially efficacious in this regard.

With organ transplantation rejection begins to develop in the days immediately post transplant such that prevention rather than treatment of rejection is a paramount consideration. The reverse applies in autoimmunity wherein a patient presents with the disease already causing problems. Accordingly HDAC6 mice treated for 14 days with low dose RPM rapamycin are assessed for displaying signs of tolerance induction and resistance to the development of chronic rejection a continuing major loss of graft function long term in the clinical transplant population. Tolerance is assessed by testing whether mice with long surviving allografts reject a subsequent third party cardiac graft and accept additional donor allografts without any immunosuppression as can occur using a non selective HDACI plus RPM. These in vivo sutides are accompanied by assessment of ELISPOT and MLR activities using recipient lymphocytes challenged with donor cells. Protection against chronic rejection is assessed by analysis of host anti donor humoral responses and analysis of graft transplant arteriosclerosis and interstitial fibrosis in long surviving allograft recipients.

The importance of HDAC6 targeting is assessed in additional transplant models seeking readouts of biochemical significance as is monitored clinically. Thus the effects of HDAC6 in targeting in renal transplant recipients monitoring BUN proteinuria and islet allografts monitoring blood glucose levels are assessed. Renal transplants are the most common organ transplants performed and the kidney performs multiple functions e.g. regulating acid base metabolism blood pressure red cell production such that efficacy in this model indicates the utility of HDAC6 targeting. Likewise islet transplantation is a major unmet need given that clinical islet allografts are typically lost after the first one or two years post transplant. Having a safe and non toxic means to extend islet survival without maintenance CNI therapy would be an important advance. Transplant studies also are strengthened by use of mice with floxed HDAC6. Using existing Foxp3 Cre mice for example the effects of deletion of HDAC6 just in Tregs is tested. This approach can be extended to targeting of HDAC6 in T cells CD4 Cre and dendritic cells CD11c Cre for example. Using tamoxifen regulated Cre the importance of HDAC6 in induction vs. maintenance of transplants with implications for short term vs. maintenance HDAC6I therapy is assessed by administering tamoxifen and inducing HDAC6 deletion at varying periods post transplant.

Studies of autoimmunity also are undertaken. In this case interruption of existing disease is especially important and HDAC6 targeting can be efficacious without any requirement for additional therapy in contrast to a need for brief low dose RPM in the very aggressive fully MHC mismatched transplant models . Studies in mice with colitis indicated that HDAC6 Tregs were more effective than WT Tregs in regulating disease and tubacin was able to rescue mice if treatment was begun once colitis had developed. These studies are extended by assessing whether deletion of HDAC6 in Tregs Foxp3 Cre vs. T cells CD4 Cre vs. DC CD11c Cre differentially affect the development and severity of colitis. Similarly control of colitis is assessed by inducing HDAC6 deletion at varying intervals after the onset of colitis with tamoxifen regulated Cre.

The present compounds are envisioned to demonstrate anti arthritic efficacy in a collagen induced arthritis model in DBA1 J mice. In this test DBA1 J mice male 7 8 weeks are used with 8 animals per group. Systemic arthritis is induced with bovine collagen type II and CFA plus an IFA booster injection on day 21. A present HDACI is dosed at 50 mg kg and 100 mg kg on day 28 for 2 consecutive weeks and the effects determined from the Average Arthritic Score vs. Days of Treatment data.

Despite efforts to avoid graft rejection through host donor tissue type matching in the majority of transplantation procedures immunosuppressive therapy is critical to the viability of the donor organ in the host. A variety of immunosuppressive agents have been employed in transplantation procedures including azathioprine methotrexate cyclophosphamide FK 506 rapamycin and corticosteroids.

The present HDACIs are potent immunosuppressive agents that suppress humoral immunity and cell mediated immune reactions such as allograft rejection delayed hypersensitivity experimental allergic encephalomyelitis Freund s adjuvant arthritis and graft versus host disease. HDACIs of the present invention are useful for the prophylaxis of organ rejection subsequent to organ transplantation for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis for the treatment of psoriasis and for the treatment of other autoimmune diseases such as type I diabetes Crohn s disease and lupus.

A therapeutically effective amount of a present HDACI can be used for immunosuppression including for example to prevent organ rejection or graft vs. host disease and to treat diseases and conditions in particular autoimmune and inflammatory diseases and conditions. Examples of autoimmune and inflammatory diseases include but are not limited to Hashimoto s thyroiditis pernicious anemia Addison s disease psoriasis diabetes rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus dermatomyositis Sjogren s syndrome dermatomyositis lupus erythematosus multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis Reiter s syndrome arthritis rheumatoid arthritis arthritis chronic progrediente and arthritis deformans and rheumatic diseases autoimmune hematological disorder hemolytic anaemia aplastic anaemia pure red cell anaemia and idiopathic thrombocytopaenia systemic lupus erythematosus polychondritis sclerodoma Wegener granulamatosis dermatomyositis chronic active hepatitis psoriasis Steven Johnson syndrome idiopathic sprue autoimmune inflammatory bowel disease ulcerative colitis and Crohn s disease endocrine opthalmopathy Graves disease sarcoidosis primary biliary cirrhosis juvenile diabetes diabetes mellitus type I uveitis anterior and posterior keratoconjunctivitis sicca and vernal keratoconjunctivitis interstitial lung fibrosis psoriatic arthritis and glomerulonephritis.

A present HDACI can be used alone or in conjunction with a second therapeutic agent known to be useful in the treatment of autoimmune diseases inflammations transplants and grafts such as cyclosporin rapamycin methotrexate cyclophosphamide azathioprine corticosteroids and similar agents known to persons skilled in the art.

Additional diseases and conditions mediated by HDACs and particularly HDAC6 include but are not limited to asthma cardiac hypertrophy giant axonal neuropathy mononeuropathy mononeuritis polyneuropathy autonomic neuropathy neuritis in general and neuropathy in general. These disease and conditions also can be treated by a method of the present invention.

In the present method a therapeutically effective amount of one or more HDACI of the present invention typically formulated in accordance with pharmaceutical practice is administered to a human being in need thereof. Whether such a treatment is indicated depends on the individual case and is subject to medical assessment diagnosis that takes into consideration signs symptoms and or malfunctions that are present the risks of developing particular signs symptoms and or malfunctions and other factors.

A present HDACI can be administered by any suitable route for example by oral buccal inhalation topical sublingual rectal vaginal intracisternal or intrathecal through lumbar puncture transurethral nasal percutaneous i.e. transdermal or parenteral including intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous intracoronary intradermal intramammary intraperitoneal intraarticular intrathecal retrobulbar intrapulmonary injection and or surgical implantation at a particular site administration. Parenteral administration can be accomplished using a needle and syringe or using a high pressure technique.

Pharmaceutical compositions include those wherein a present HDACI is present in a sufficient amount to be administered in an effective amount to achieve its intended purpose. The exact formulation route of administration and dosage is determined by an individual physician in view of the diagnosed condition or disease. Dosage amount and interval can be adjusted individually to provide levels of a present HDACI that is sufficient to maintain therapeutic effects.

Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of the present HDACI compounds can be determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals e.g. for determining the LD the dose lethal to 50 of the population and the ED the dose therapeutically effective in 50 of the population . The dose ratio between toxic and therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index which is expressed as the ratio between LDand ED. Compounds that exhibit high therapeutic indices are preferred. The data obtained from such procedures can be used in formulating a dosage range for use in humans. The dosage preferably lies within a range of circulating compound concentrations that include the EDwith little or no toxicity. The dosage can vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of administration utilized. Determination of a therapeutically effective amount is well within the capability of those skilled in the art especially in light of the detailed disclosure provided herein.

A therapeutically effective amount of a present HDACI required for use in therapy varies with the nature of the condition being treated the length of time that activity is desired and the age and the condition of the patient and ultimately is determined by the attendant physician. Dosage amounts and intervals can be adjusted individually to provide plasma levels of the HDACI that are sufficient to maintain the desired therapeutic effects. The desired dose conveniently can be administered in a single dose or as multiple doses administered at appropriate intervals for example as one two three four or more subdoses per day. Multiple doses often are desired or required. For example a present HDACI can be administered at a frequency of four doses delivered as one dose per day at four day intervals q4d 4 four doses delivered as one dose per day at three day intervals q3d 4 one dose delivered per day at five day intervals qd 5 one dose per week for three weeks qwk3 five daily doses with two days rest and another five daily doses 5 2 5 or any dose regimen determined to be appropriate for the circumstance.

The dosage of a composition containing a present HDACI or a composition containing the same can be from about 1 ng kg to about 200 mg kg about 1 g kg to about 100 mg kg or about 1 mg kg to about 50 mg kg of body weight. The dosage of a composition may be at any dosage including but not limited to about 1 g kg 10 g kg 25 g kg 50 g kg 75 g kg 100 g kg 125 g kg 150 g kg 175 g kg 200 g kg 225 g kg 250 g kg 275 g kg 300 g kg 325 g kg 350 g kg 375 g kg 400 g kg 425 g kg 450 g kg 475 g kg 500 g kg 525 g kg 550 g kg 575 g kg 600 g kg 625 g kg 650 g kg 675 g kg 700 g kg 725 g kg 750 g kg 775 g kg 800 g kg 825 g kg 850 g kg 875 g kg 900 g kg 925 g kg 950 g kg 975 g kg 1 mg kg 5 mg kg 10 mg kg 15 mg kg 20 mg kg 25 mg kg 30 mg kg 35 mg kg 40 mg kg 45 mg kg 50 mg kg 60 mg kg 70 mg kg 80 mg kg 90 mg kg 100 mg kg 125 mg kg 150 mg kg 175 mg kg or 200 mg kg. The above dosages are exemplary of the average case but there can be individual instances in which higher or lower dosages are merited and such are within the scope of this invention. In practice the physician determines the actual dosing regimen that is most suitable for an individual patient which can vary with the age weight and response of the particular patient.

A present HDACI used in a method of the present invention typically is administered in an amount of about 0.005 to about 500 milligrams per dose about 0.05 to about 250 milligrams per dose or about 0.5 to about 100 milligrams per dose. For example a present HDACI can be administered per dose in an amount of about 0.005 0.05 0.5 5 10 20 30 40 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 or 500 milligrams including all doses between 0.005 and 500 milligrams.

The HDACIs of the present invention typically are administered in admixture with a pharmaceutical carrier selected with regard to the intended route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice. Pharmaceutical compositions for use in accordance with the present invention are formulated in a conventional manner using one or more physiologically acceptable carriers comprising excipients and auxiliaries that facilitate processing of the present HDACIs.

The term carrier refers to a diluent adjuvant or excipient with which a present HDACI is administered. Such pharmaceutical carriers can be liquids such as water and oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin such as peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil and the like. The carriers can be saline gum acacia gelatin starch paste talc keratin colloidal silica urea and the like. In addition auxiliary stabilizing thickening lubricating and coloring agents can be used. The pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are sterile. Water is a preferred carrier when a present HDACI is administered intravenously. Saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions can also be employed as liquid carriers particularly for injectable solutions. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers also include excipients such as starch glucose lactose sucrose gelatin malt rice flour chalk silica gel sodium stearate glycerol monostearate talc sodium chloride dried skim milk glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol and the like. The present compositions if desired can also contain minor amounts of wetting or emulsifying agents or pH buffering agents.

These pharmaceutical compositions can be manufactured for example by conventional mixing dissolving granulating dragee making emulsifying encapsulating entrapping or lyophilizing processes. Proper formulation is dependent upon the route of administration chosen. When a therapeutically effective amount of a present HDACI is administered orally the composition typically is in the form of a tablet capsule powder solution or elixir. When administered in tablet form the composition additionally can contain a solid carrier such as a gelatin or an adjuvant. The tablet capsule and powder contain about 0.01 to about 95 and preferably from about 1 to about 50 of a present HDACI. When administered in liquid form a liquid carrier such as water petroleum or oils of animal or plant origin can be added. The liquid form of the composition can further contain physiological saline solution dextrose or other saccharide solutions or glycols. When administered in liquid form the composition contains about 0.1 to about 90 and preferably about 1 to about 50 by weight of a present compound.

When a therapeutically effective amount of a present HDACI is administered by intravenous cutaneous or subcutaneous injection the composition is in the form of a pyrogen free parenterally acceptable aqueous solution. The preparation of such parenterally acceptable solutions having due regard to pH isotonicity stability and the like is within the skill in the art. A preferred composition for intravenous cutaneous or subcutaneous injection typically contains an isotonic vehicle. A present HDACI can be infused with other fluids over a 10 30 minute span or over several hours.

The present HDACIs can be readily combined with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art. Such carriers enable the active agents to be formulated as tablets pills dragees capsules liquids gels syrups slurries suspensions and the like for oral ingestion by a patient to be treated. Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by adding a present HDACI to a solid excipient optionally grinding the resulting mixture and processing the mixture of granules after adding suitable auxiliaries if desired to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients include for example fillers and cellulose preparations. If desired disintegrating agents can be added.

A present HDACI can be formulated for parenteral administration by injection e.g. by bolus injection or continuous infusion. Formulations for injection can be presented in unit dosage form e.g. in ampules or in multidose containers with an added preservative. The compositions can take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and can contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents.

Pharmaceutical compositions for parenteral administration include aqueous solutions of the active agent in water soluble form. Additionally suspensions of a present HDACI can be prepared as appropriate oily injection suspensions. Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles include fatty oils or synthetic fatty acid esters. Aqueous injection suspensions can contain substances which increase the viscosity of the suspension. Optionally the suspension also can contain suitable stabilizers or agents that increase the solubility of the compounds and allow for the preparation of highly concentrated solutions. Alternatively a present composition can be in powder form for constitution with a suitable vehicle e.g. sterile pyrogen free water before use.

A present HDACI also can be formulated in rectal compositions such as suppositories or retention enemas e.g. containing conventional suppository bases. In addition to the formulations described previously a present HDACI also can be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations can be administered by implantation for example subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by intramuscular injection. Thus for example a present HDACI can be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials for example as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins.

In particular a present HDACI can be administered orally buccally or sublingually in the form of tablets containing excipients such as starch or lactose or in capsules or ovules either alone or in admixture with excipients or in the form of elixirs or suspensions containing flavoring or coloring agents. Such liquid preparations can be prepared with pharmaceutically acceptable additives such as suspending agents. The present HDACIs also can be injected parenterally for example intravenously intramuscularly subcutaneously or intracoronarily. For parenteral administration the present HDACIs are best used in the form of a sterile aqueous solution which can contain other substances for example salts or monosaccharides such as mannitol or glucose to make the solution isotonic with blood.

As an additional embodiment the present invention includes kits which comprise one or more compounds or compositions packaged in a manner that facilitates their use to practice methods of the invention. In one simple embodiment the kit includes a compound or composition described herein as useful for practice of a method e.g. a composition comprising a present HDACI and an optional second therapeutic agent packaged in a container such as a sealed bottle or vessel with a label affixed to the container or included in the kit that describes use of the compound or composition to practice the method of the invention. Preferably the compound or composition is packaged in a unit dosage form. The kit further can include a device suitable for administering the composition according to the intended route of administration for example a syringe drip bag or patch. In another embodiment the present compounds is a lyophilate. In this instance the kit can further comprise an additional container which contains a solution useful for the reconstruction of the lyophilate.

Prior HDACIs possessed properties that hindered their development as therapeutic agents. In accordance with an important feature of the present invention the present HDACIs were synthesized and evaluated as inhibitors for HDAC. The present compounds demonstrate an increased HDAC6 potency and selectivity against HDAC1 and HDAC8 with improvements in BEI relative to prior compounds. The improved properties of the present compounds particularly the increase in BEI and reduced potency at HDAC8 indicate that the present compounds are useful for applications such as but not limited to immunosuppressive and neuroprotective agents. For example compounds of the present invention typically have a bonding affinity IC to HDAC6 of less than 100 M less than 25 M less than 10 M less than 1 M less than 0.5 M and less than 0.2 M.

