---

title: Stimulation of the urinary system
abstract: Apparatus and methods are described including identifying a subject as suffering from an impaired body system, the body system being selected from the group consisting of: a cardiovascular system and a renal system. In response thereto, a structure is inserted inside a bladder of the subject, and the bladder is mechanically stimulated with the structure. Other applications are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08725249&OS=08725249&RS=08725249
owner: Nephera Ltd.
number: 08725249
owner_city: Caesarea
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20120308
---
Some applications of the present invention generally relate to apparatus and methods for modifying bodily functions. Specifically some applications of the present invention relate to stimulating the urinary system.

The kidneys are organs that have numerous biological roles. Their primary role is to maintain the homeostatic balance of bodily fluids by filtering and secreting metabolites and minerals from the blood and excreting them along with water as urine. The ureters are muscular ducts that propel urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. In the adult the ureters are usually 25 30 cm 10 12 inches long.

Congestive heart failure CHF is a very common disorder affecting 6 million Americans and more than 22 million worldwide. CHF is the leading hospital discharge diagnosis in individuals aged 65 years or older. Renal impairment is an independent and significant predictor of morbidity and mortality in CHF patients. Mortality increases incrementally across the range of renal function with 7 increased risk for every 10 mL min decrease in glomerular filtration rate GFR . CHF triggers kidney dysfunction by a pathological process dubbed the cardio renal syndrome. The cardio renal syndrome can be acute characterized by a rapid decrease in cardiac output together with worsening renal function or chronic in which gradual worsening of heart and or kidney function develops over months.

The cardio renal syndrome is a common condition. In the US more than 500 000 patients are admitted to hospital every year with acute heart failure and up 80 of these patients suffer from deteriorating renal functions. High renal sympathetic activity constitutes a link between CHF and renal dysfunction. Signals of shock and hypoperfusion present in CHF patients activate a number of compensation systems to increase the blood pressure and prevent fluid losses. Of these the renal sympathetic system is one of the most important ones. The renal sympathetic system effectively reduces renal blood flow and kidney functions including sodium and water excretion to urine. In addition the renal sympathetic system activates the renin angiotensin aldosterone axis and therefore leads to hypertension fluid retention and kidney dysfunction. Increased renal sympathetic drive has been described as being a factor in causing progressive deterioration of renal function and adverse outcome in CHF patients in an article by Petersson et al. entitled Long term outcome in relation to renal sympathetic activity in patients with chronic heart failure European Heart Journal 2005 26 906 913 .

Hypertension is one of the most common worldwide diseases afflicting humans. In the US forty three million people are estimated to have hypertension the age adjusted prevalence of hypertension varying from 18 32 . Abnormal renal excretory function is a mechanism associated with the initiation and progression of hypertension. Variations of arterial pressure signals the kidney to alter urinary sodium and water excretion. In the long term maintenance of sodium and water balance by the kidneys is believed to be an important factor in the long term control of arterial pressure. Thus factors that decrease renal excretory function lead to an increase in arterial pressure which is required to reestablish and maintain sodium and water balance.

Chronic kidney disease CKD is a major cause of morbidity and mortality particularly at later stages of the disease. There is evidence to indicate the presence of functional abnormalities of the sympathetic nervous system in uremic animals and humans. In patients with bilateral nephrectomy the rate of sympathetic discharge is lower than in patients with their native kidneys and this increased rate is accompanied by lower mean arterial pressure and regional vascular resistance.

Sympathetic activation contributes to progressive kidney damage by elevation of blood pressure and by promoting atherosclerosis. Increased sympathetic activity progressive atherosclerosis and elevated blood pressure contribute to the development of cardiac remodeling and functional alterations. These conditions are highly prevalent in patients with CKD.

Causes of acute renal failure ARF can be broadly divided into three clinical categories a Prerenal which is an adaptive response to severe volume depletion b renal or intrinsic in response to kidney insult including contrast material and c postrenal.

Prerenal ARF is the most common cause of ARF. It often leads to intrinsic ARF if it is not promptly corrected. Acute reduction of renal blood flow RBF either because of blood loss or hypotension can result in this syndrome. The hallmark of intrinsic ARF and the most common form is acute tubular injury ATN . Prerenal ARF and ATN occur on a continuum of the same pathophysiological process and together account for 75 of the cases of ARF.

Mortality rate estimates in ARF patients vary from 25 90 . The in hospital mortality rate is 40 50 in intensive care settings the rate is 70 80 . The mortality in patients requiring dialysis is about 50 . Mortality rates have changed little over the last two decades reflecting the fact that there is no adequate treatment for this condition.

For some applications of the present invention a structure is inserted inside a subject s bladder. The bladder is mechanically stimulated by moving the structure with respect to an inner wall of the bladder while at least a portion of the structure is contacting the inner wall.

For some applications a device having an expandable distal portion thereof is inserted into the bladder and or into a different portion of the subject s body. For example a transurethral catheter having a balloon disposed on a distal portion thereof may be inserted into the subject s bladder via the subject s urethra. At least one protruding member is disposed on the distal portion of the device e.g. on the balloon . For example mechanical protruding members and or electrical contacts may protrude from the balloon. A protruding member protection layer is disposed at the distal portion of the device. For example an outer balloon a patch and or a covering sheath may be disposed on at least a portion of the outer surface of the balloon.

When the distal portion of the device is in a contracted state thereof e.g. when the balloon is in a deflated state the protruding member does not protrude from the protruding member protection layer. When the distal portion is in an expanded state thereof e.g. when the balloon is in an inflated state the protruding member at least partially protrudes from the protruding member protection layer.

For some applications when the balloon is deflated the outer surfaces of the protruding members are flush with the outer surface of the protruding member protection layer. Alternatively the protruding member protection layer covers at least a portion of or the whole of the outer surface of the protruding member when the inner balloon is in the deflated state. Thus during insertion of the catheter via the subject s urethra the protruding member protection layer reduces damage and or discomfort to the subject s urethra resulting from the protruding member rubbing and or scratching the urethra. Alternatively or additionally during insertion of the catheter via the subject s urethra the protruding member protection layer protects the protruding member from being damaged and or from becoming decoupled from the balloon.

For some applications apparatus is provided for stimulating the urinary system including a at least one elongate element configured to lie within the ureter allowing free urine flow within the ureter and configured to not interfere with operation of ureter valves b at least one stimulator element mechanically coupled to the elongate element and c a controller configured to stimulate the at least one stimulator element with a stimulation sequence suitable to modify a function of at least one kidney or a cardiovascular system. Optionally the stimulator element includes an expandable element and or the stimulator element is configured to expand past a resting diameter of a ureter. For some applications the stimulator element includes one or more of a mechanical stimulator a chemical stimulator and a thermal stimulator. For some applications the element is thin enough and soft enough to not interfere with operation of ureter valves. For some applications the stimulator contact is in the form of a tubular element of at least 3 mm in length mounted on an elongate element of at least 20 cm in length which apparatus lodges in a ureter or renal pelvis. Alternatively or additionally the stimulator contact is in the form of a conical element that lodges in a renal pelvis. For some applications the elongate element is adapted for an insertion via a nephrostomic route.

There is therefore provided in accordance with some applications of the present invention apparatus including 

For some applications the protruding member protection layer includes a covering sheath that is placed over a portion of an outer surface of the expandable distal portion the outer surface of the expandable distal portion is shaped to define an indentation that conforms with a shape of the covering sheath and the covering sheath is configured such that when the covering sheath is placed inside the indentation an outer surface of the covering sheath is flush with the outer surface of the expandable distal portion adjacent to the covering sheath.

For some applications the protruding member protection layer includes a patch that is placed over a portion of an outer surface of the expandable distal portion.

For some applications when the distal portion is in the contracted state thereof the protruding member protection layer is configured to be flush with outer surfaces of the protruding member.

For some applications when the distal portion is in the contracted state thereof the protruding member protection layer is configured to at least partially cover the protruding member.

For some applications the protruding member protection layer defines a hole through which the protruding member protrudes when the distal portion is in the expanded state thereof and edges of the protruding member protection layer that are adjacent to the hole are thickened with respect to other portions of the protruding member protection layer.

For some applications even when the distal portion is in the expanded state the protruding member protection layer partially covers the protruding member.

For some applications the protruding member is shaped to define an outer rim and an inner thickened region and when the distal portion is in the expanded state the protruding member protection layer at least partially covers the outer rim of the protruding member.

For some applications the protruding member protection layer includes an outer balloon disposed over the inflatable balloon the outer balloon being configured to be stretched by the inner balloon when the inner balloon is in the expanded state such that the protruding member protrudes from the outer balloon.

For some applications at least a portion of the inflatable balloon includes inner and outer layers the inner and outer layers defining a slit therebetween the protruding member is disposed inside the slit and the outer layer includes the protruding member protection layer.

For some applications the inner and outer layers are configured to fixate the protruding member with respect to the balloon by squeezing the protruding member therebetween.

For some applications the distal portion of the device is configured to be inserted into a body of a subject via a lumen of the subject and 

during the insertion the distal portion of the device is configured to be in the contracted state and

when the distal portion of the device is inside the subject s body the distal portion is configured to be expanded.

For some applications the device includes a transurethral catheter and the distal portion of the device is configured to be inserted into a bladder of the subject via a urethra of the subject.

For some applications the catheter includes a catheter shaft a length of the catheter shaft being between 5 cm and 150 cm.

For some applications the catheter defines a urine drainage port at the distal portion the port being configured to facilitate drainage of urine from the bladder via the catheter.

For some applications the protruding member includes an electrical contact the apparatus further including a control unit configured to electrically stimulate the subject s bladder by driving a current into the subject s bladder via the electrical contact.

For some applications the protruding member includes a mechanical member configured to mechanically stimulate the subject s bladder by being moved with respect to an inner wall of the bladder.

There is further provided in accordance with some applications of the present invention apparatus including 

at least one protruding member configured to protrude from an outer surface of the balloon when the balloon is in an inflated state thereof the protruding member being shaped to define a hollow space therein 

the protruding member being coupled to the balloon by a portion of the balloon material being molded within the hollow space.

For some applications the protruding member is shaped to define anchoring portions that are embedded within the balloon material.

For some applications the protruding member is shaped to define at least one hole therethrough the protruding member being coupled to the balloon by a portion of the balloon material being molded through the hole.

For some applications the protruding member is shaped to define at least two holes therethrough the holes crossing with one another the protruding members being coupled to the balloon by a portion of the balloon material being molded through the holes.

There is additionally provided in accordance with some applications of the present invention apparatus including 

For some applications the balloon is configured to be inserted inside a subject s bladder and to mechanically stimulate the subject s bladder by moving with respect to an inner wall of the subject s bladder.

For some applications the balloon is configured such that in the inflated state the outer surface of the balloon is ridged.

For some applications the balloon includes a silicone balloon and the first and second set of regions include silicone having respective durometers.

For some applications the second set of regions includes two to twenty non contiguous regions that are configured to protrude from the outer surface of the balloon defined by the first set of regions when the balloon is in the inflated state thereof.

For some applications when the balloon is in the inflated state each of the regions of the second set of regions is separated from an adjacent region of the second set of regions by a distance of at least 1 mm.

There is further provided in accordance with some applications of the present invention a method including 

For some applications inserting the structure into the bladder includes inserting a balloon into the bladder.

For some applications inserting the structure into the bladder includes inserting a stiff mechanical element into the bladder.

For some applications mechanically stimulating the bladder with the structure includes moving the structure using an engine.

For some applications mechanically stimulating the bladder with the structure includes moving the structure magnetically.

For some applications mechanically stimulating the bladder includes controlling a kidney function of the subject selected from the group consisting of glomerular filtration rate urine flow rate urine composition urine density and renal hormone secretion.

For some applications mechanically stimulating the bladder includes controlling a cardiovascular function of the subject selected from the group consisting of blood pressure portal pressure pulmonary pressure organ blood flow cardiac output heart rate intravascular fluid volume extravascular fluid volume pulmonary edema level and body edema level.

For some applications inserting the structure inside the subject s bladder includes inserting a catheter into the bladder the structure being disposed at a distal end of a catheter and inserting the catheter includes facilitating outflow of urine from the bladder via a urine drainage lumen of the catheter.

For some applications the method further includes detecting a parameter of the subject and mechanically stimulating the bladder includes mechanically stimulating the bladder responsively to the detected parameter.

For some applications detecting the parameter includes detecting a parameter selected from the group consisting of glomerular filtration rate urine flow urine composition secretion of hormones from the kidney a creatinine level and an insulin level.

For some applications detecting the parameter includes detecting a parameter selected from the group consisting of a urinary parameter urinary peristalsis and urinary pressure.

For some applications detecting the parameter includes detecting a parameter selected from the group consisting of blood chemistry blood pressure heart rate breathing rate lung fluid volume and ECG.

For some applications mechanically stimulating the bladder with the structure includes moving the structure with respect to an inner wall of the bladder while at least a portion of the structure is contacting the inner wall.

For some applications the structure includes a structure disposed at an end of a transurethral catheter and moving the structure includes performing an action selected from the group consisting of vibrating the catheter pushing the catheter pulling the catheter and modulating a length of the catheter.

For some applications the structure includes a device that is configured to remain inside the subject s bladder in the absence of a transurethral catheter and moving the structure includes moving the device.

For some applications moving the structure includes directing energy toward the structure from a location outside a body of the subject.

For some applications directing energy toward the structure includes directing a magnetic field toward the structure.

For some applications directing energy toward the structure includes directing waves toward the structure the waves being selected from the group consisting of sonic waves and ultrasonic waves.

For some applications the structure includes a balloon and moving the structure with respect to the inner wall of the bladder includes moving the balloon with respect to the inner wall of the bladder.

For some applications the balloon includes protruding members that protrude therefrom and mechanically stimulating the bladder includes moving the protruding members with respect to the inner wall of the bladder.

For some applications moving the balloon with respect to the inner wall of the bladder includes modulating a volume of the balloon.

For some applications modulating the volume of the balloon includes modulating the volume of the balloon at a frequency of 0.1 Hz to 1 Hz.

For some applications mechanically stimulating the bladder includes inflating the balloon to a volume of more than 30 cc.

For some applications mechanically stimulating the bladder includes inflating the balloon to a volume of more than 50 cc.

For some applications mechanically stimulating the bladder includes inflating the balloon to a volume of more than 100 cc.

There is additionally provided in accordance with some applications of the present invention a method including 

The present invention will be more fully understood from the following detailed description of embodiments thereof taken together with the drawings in which 

Reference is now made to which are schematic illustrations of a catheter that includes protruding members at a distal portion thereof in accordance with some applications of the present invention. In accordance with some applications of the present invention techniques are provided for at least partially covering the protruding members during insertion of the distal portion of the catheter into a subject s body via a lumen of the subject s body. Typically when the distal portion of the catheter is inside the subject s body the protruding members are at least partially uncovered in accordance with the techniques described hereinbelow and are used to stimulate e.g. mechanically and or electrically stimulate a portion of the subject s body and or to sense a parameter of a portion of the subject s body. For example protruding members may include electrical contacts mechanical elements an electrical sensor a thermal energy source an ultrasound probe a thermal sensor a pressure gauge a drug eluting structure a degradable structure and or any type of sensor.

Typically catheter is used for stimulating a portion of a subject s bladder by being inserted into the bladder via the subject s urethra. For some applications catheter stimulates the subject s bladder in order control bodily functions such as kidney function e.g. to control glomerular filtration rate GFR urine flow rate urine composition urine density and or renal hormone secretion. Alternatively or additionally catheter stimulates the subject s bladder in order to control cardiovascular functions such as blood pressure portal pressure pulmonary pressure organ including renal blood flow cardiac output heart rate intravascular and extravascular fluid volume and or pulmonary or body edema levels. For some applications the catheter stimulates the subject s bladder in accordance with techniques described in PCT Application Publication WO 10 067360 to Bar Yoseph which is incorporated herein by reference. For some applications the catheter stimulates the subject s bladder electrically and or mechanically.

Typically catheter is placed inside the subject s bladder in order to provide an acute treatment while the subject is hospitalized e.g. while the subject is suffering from CHF hypertension chronic kidney disease and or acute renal failure. For example the catheter may be placed inside the subject s bladder for a period of more than one hour e.g. more than five hours and or less than one month e.g. less than one week . The catheter shaft is typically flexible the length of the catheter shaft typically being more than 5 cm e.g. more than 30 cm and or less than 150 cm e.g. less than 50 cm .

For some applications catheter is inserted into a portion of the subject s body other than the bladder and or is inserted into the subject s body via a bodily lumen of the subject or via a different portion of the subject s body other than the urethra. For example the catheter may be inserted into the subject s bladder via a suprapubic or a laparoscopic approach.

Typically catheter is an indwelling catheter. For example the catheter may be generally similar to a Foley catheter. The catheter typically defines a drainage port for draining urine from the subject s bladder. Urine flows into the drainage port from the subject s bladder. The urine typically drains out of the subject s body via a urine drainage lumen that is defined by the catheter shaft as described hereinbelow. An inner balloon is disposed at the distal end of the catheter. For some applications the inner balloon is generally similar to the distal balloon of an indwelling bladder catheter such as a Foley catheter. For some applications balloon is inflated to a maximum volume of more than 30 cc e.g. more than 50 cc more than 100 cc or more than 250 cc e.g. in order to facilitate mechanical stimulation of the bladder as described hereinbelow . For some applications a different expandable structure such as a foam structure or a mechanical structure e.g. as described with reference to is used instead of balloon .

Typically one or more protruding members protrude from the inner balloon. For example the protruding members may include electrical contacts via which the subject s bladder is electrically stimulated. Typically for such applications a control unit is disposed outside the subject s body e.g. control unit shown in and or is disposed inside the catheter shaft the control unit electrically stimulating the bladder by driving a current into the inner wall of the bladder via the electrical contacts. Alternatively or additionally the protruding members may be mechanical elements configured to mechanically stimulate the subject s bladder e.g. by being pressed or rubbed against the subject s bladder. Further alternatively or additionally protruding members may include an electrical sensor a thermal energy source an ultrasound probe a thermal sensor a pressure gauge a drug eluting structure a degradable structure and or any type of sensor. In accordance with respective applications protruding members are portions of inner balloon that are shaped so as to protrude e.g. as described with reference to and or are separate members that are coupled to the inner balloon e.g. in accordance with the coupling techniques described herein.

A protruding member protection layer is disposed on the outside of the inner balloon. For example an outer balloon may be disposed around inner balloon and or the inner balloon or a portion thereof may define a layer configured to act as the protruding member protection layer. The protruding member protection layer is configured to protect the subject s urethra during insertion of the catheter into the subject s bladder by the protruding members not protruding from the layer during the insertion. For example during the insertion the protruding member protection layer may at least partially cover the protruding members or may form a surface that is flush with outer surfaces of the protruding members. For some applications the protruding member protection layer protects the protruding members from being damaged and or from becoming decoupled from balloon during insertion of the catheter into the subject s bladder.

As shown in when inner balloon is in an inflated state outer balloon stretches such that the outer surface of the outer balloon is no longer flush with the outer surfaces of the protruding members and or such that the outer balloon no longer covers the protruding members. Therefore when the inner balloon is in an inflated state protruding members protrude from the outer surface of the outer balloon. Thus the protruding members may be placed against the inner wall of the subject s bladder in order to stimulate bladder wall e.g. electrically or mechanically.

Typically upon deflating inner balloon outer balloon again forms a surface that is flush with outer Surfaces of protruding members or that at least partially covers the protruding members such that the protruding members do not protrude from the outer balloon. In this manner the outer balloon reduces damage and or discomfort to the subject s urethra resulting from the protruding member rubbing and or scratching the urethra during removal of the catheter from the subject s bladder via the subject s urethra. Alternatively or additionally the outer balloon protects the protruding member from being damaged and or from becoming decoupled from balloon during removal of the catheter from the subject s bladder via the subject s urethra.

For some applications protruding members are used to apply stimulation e.g. electrical or mechanical stimulation to the trigone area of the subject s bladder. Alternatively the protruding members are used to apply stimulation e.g. electrical or mechanical stimulation to a different area of the subject s bladder. For some applications the protruding members are placed against the bladder wall and used to stimulate the bladder wall irrespective of the location of the protruding members with respect to the bladder wall. Typically the number of protruding members that are used and the placement of the protruding members with respect to inner balloon are in accordance with the portion of the bladder wall that is to be stimulated. For some applications two to twenty protruding members protrude from the balloon. Typically when the balloon is in an inflated state each of the protruding members is spaced from an adjacent protruding member by a distance of at least 1 mm.

For some applications the techniques described herein for covering or otherwise protecting protruding members that protrude from a balloon during insertion of the balloon into the subject s body via a bodily lumen are applied to a balloon that is inserted into a portion of the subject s body other than the bladder and or is inserted into the subject s body via a bodily lumen of the subject or via a different portion of the subject s body other than the urethra. For some applications the techniques described herein for covering or otherwise protecting protruding members that protrude from a medical instrument during insertion of the instrument into the subject s body via a bodily lumen are applied to medical instruments other than a balloon.

For example the techniques described herein may be applied to a catheter that is inserted into a subject s heart and that defines protruding members at a distal portion thereof. The protruding members may include sensors for sensing parameters of the subject s cardiac tissue and or electrical contacts for stimulating the subject s cardiac tissue. The protruding members do not protrude from protruding member protection layer during insertion of the catheter via a blood vessel of the subject. The protruding member protection layer facilitates protrusion of the protruding members from the distal portion of the catheter when the distal portion of the catheter is disposed inside the subject s heart. Alternatively or additionally the techniques described herein may be applied to a different medical instrument that defines protruding members at a distal portion thereof and that is configured to be inserted into the subject s body via the subject s esophagus trachea vagina anus cervix blood vessel and or another bodily lumen.

Reference is now made to which are schematic illustrations of outer balloon of catheter the outer balloon defining holes via which protruding members protrude through the outer balloon in accordance with some applications of the present invention. Typically inner balloon shown in and outer balloon are made of silicone and or another stretchable material such as polyurethane or a different flexible thermoplastic. As shown in the outer balloon defines holes through which the protruding members protrude when the inner balloon is in an inflated state. Edges of the outer balloon that define holes are thickened with respect to portions of the outer balloon that are not adjacent to the protruding members e.g. by the edges being made of silicone of a higher durometer than the other portions of the balloon . For example the edges may be thickened in order to reduce the likelihood of the edges tearing when the outer balloon is stretched by inner balloon being inflated. Alternatively or additionally the thickened edges may be such as to raise the outer surface of the outer balloon in the regions of the outer balloon adjacent to the protruding members such that the regions of the outer balloon adjacent to the protruding members are flush with the protruding members when the inner balloon is in a deflated state. For some applications when the inner balloon is in a deflated state edges of hole are above the outer surface of protruding member .

For some applications when the outer balloon is not stretched holes are non circular e.g. elliptical or the shape of a racetrack as shown in . Typically when the outer balloon is stretched by the inner balloon being inflated the outer balloon stretches circumferentially more than the balloon stretches longitudinally. Thus when the outer balloon is stretched by the inner balloon being inflated holes become generally circular as shown in . The generally circular shape of the holes when balloon is in an inflated state is typically such as to facilitate protrusion of the protruding members through the holes. In general holes are shaped such as to facilitate protrusion of the protruding members through the holes when balloon is in an inflated state.

Reference is now made to which are schematic illustrations of a protruding member that facilitates at least partial covering of the protruding member by outer balloon even when inner balloon is inflated in accordance with some applications of the present invention. Protruding member as shown in defines a central thick portion and a thin outer rim . For some applications a ring shaped film of kapton or a similar material surrounds the protruding member.

For some applications ring shaped film is electrically non conductive and is placed around protruding member in order to electrically isolate the protruding member e.g. when the protruding member is an electrical contact . Alternatively or additionally the ring shaped film reduces the likelihood of edges of the outer balloon adjacent to the protruding members sliding underneath the protruding members during deflation of the inner balloon.

Reference is now made to which are schematic illustrations of protruding member the protruding member being coupled to inner balloon in accordance with some applications of the present invention. It is noted that for some applications protruding members are coupled to inner balloon using an adhesive such as a cyanoacrylate adhesive and or silicone adhesive. Alternatively or additionally the protruding members are coupled to inner balloon using techniques that do not require the use of an adhesive e.g. using the techniques described with reference to . For some applications the techniques described with reference to are used to couple protruding members to a balloon in addition to using an adhesive to facilitate the coupling.

For some applications coupling the protruding members to inner balloon using coupling techniques in addition to or as an alternative to using an adhesive reduces the likelihood of the protruding members becoming decoupled from the inner balloon when the inner balloon is inflated relative to if the protruding members are coupled to the inner balloon using only an adhesive. For some applications not using adhesive to couple the protruding members to the balloon reduces the overall thickness of the balloon and the protruding members.

Reference is now made to which are schematic illustrations of protruding member the protruding member being coupled to outer balloon using a coupling technique in accordance with some alternative applications of the present invention. It is noted that for some applications protruding member as shown in is coupled to inner balloon . For such applications an outer balloon may or may not be used with the inner balloon. For some applications protruding member defines hollow portions e.g. holes as shown in that traverse the protruding member. For example the protruding member may define two holes that cross with one another or a different number of holes e.g. between one and three holes . During molding of the outer balloon silicone or a different balloon material flows through holes and fills up the holes defined by the protruding member.

Typically the protruding members described with reference to are used in conjunction with the techniques described herein for protecting the protruding members during the insertion of catheter into the subject s body e.g. by using a protruding member protection layer such as outer balloon as described hereinabove .

Reference is now made to which are schematic illustrations of balloon the balloon being configured for coupling protruding member thereto in accordance with some further alternative applications of the present invention. For some applications rather than using an outer balloon to facilitate coupling of the protruding member to the inner balloon and or to protect the urethra during insertion of balloon and protruding member via the urethra a portion of balloon is double layered the two layers of the balloon defining a slit therebetween. Typically protruding member is inserted inside slit as shown in .

For some applications an outer layer of double layered portion of the balloon acts as protruding member protection layer as described hereinabove. The outer layer protects the urethra during insertion of balloon via the urethra by at least partially covering the protruding member and or by the outer surface of the outer layer being flush with the outer surface of the protruding member such that the protruding member does not protrude from the outer layer. Alternatively or additionally outer layer protects the protruding member from being damaged and or from becoming decoupled from balloon during insertion of the catheter into the subject s bladder.

For some applications protruding member is squeezed into slit between the inner and outer layers of the double layered portion of the balloon. The inner and outer layers of the balloon squeeze the protruding member therebetween thereby facilitating coupling of the protruding member to the balloon. For some applications the squeezing of the protruding member between the inner and outer layers facilitates fixating the protruding member with respect to the balloon e.g. such that the protruding member is disposed underneath hole via which hole the protruding member protrudes when the balloon is inflated.

Typically the catheter shaft of catheter defines a urine drainage lumen to facilitate outflow of urine from the subject s bladder. The catheter shaft also defines an inflation lumen to facilitate inflation of balloon . For some applications protruding members include electrical contacts that are connected to a control unit at the proximal end of the catheter via electrodes that pass through an electrode lumen defined by the catheter shaft.

It is noted with respect to the techniques described with reference to that for some applications the techniques are used for coupling a protruding member to a balloon that is inserted into portions of a subject s body other than a subject bladder and or that is inserted via bodily lumens or other portions of the subject s body other than the subject s urethra such as the subject s esophagus trachea vagina anus and or blood vessel e.g. as described hereinabove with reference to .

Reference is now made to which are schematic illustrations of a malecot catheter for stimulating a portion of a subject s bladder in accordance with some applications of the present invention. Catheter is inserted into the subject s bladder via the subject s urethra in a contracted state as shown in . The distal end of the catheter defines a plurality of radially extendable elements . When the catheter is in the contracted state the radially extendable elements do not extend from the catheter. When the distal end of catheter is disposed inside the subject s bladder the radially extendable elements are extended radially such that catheter is configured as shown in .

Typically when the radially extendable elements are in extended states the elements are shaped so as to define angular portions . For some applications the angular portions perform one or more of the functions described hereinabove with reference to protruding members . For example the angular portions may be electrical contacts which are used to provide electrical stimulation to the subject s bladder. Alternatively or additionally the angular portions may be used to provide mechanical stimulation to the subject s bladder.

Reference is now made to which are schematic illustrations of outer balloon the outer balloon being shaped to define protruding portions therefrom in an inflated state thereof in accordance with some applications of the present invention. It is noted that for some applications inner balloon is configured to define protruding portions therefrom. For such applications an outer balloon may or may not be used with the inner balloon.

For some applications when the outer balloon or inner balloon is molded portions are formed from a generally similar material to that of the remainder of the balloon but the material from which portions is formed is less stretchable than the remainder of the balloon. For example the balloon may be formed from silicone and the silicone that is used for portions is silicone having a greater durometer than that of the remainder of the balloon. The balloon is typically formed such that in a non stretched state of the balloon the outer surfaces of portions are flush with the outer surface of the remainder of the balloon as shown in . The balloon is inserted into the subject s bladder in the deflated state such that the protruding portions do not cause discomfort and or damage to the subject s urethra during insertion therethrough.

When balloon is stretched e.g. by inner balloon being inflated the remainder of balloon stretches more than portions . Therefore portions protrude from the portions of the balloon that surround portions . Typically inner balloon is inflated when the balloons are disposed inside the subject s bladder as described hereinabove.

For some applications protruding portions from balloon perform one or more of the functions described hereinabove with reference to protruding members . For example the protruding portions may be used to provide mechanical stimulation the subject s bladder e.g. the trigone area and or a different area of the subject s bladder . For some applications balloon is used for inserting into a portion of the subject s body other than the bladder and or inserting into the subject s body via a bodily lumen of the subject or a different portion of the subject s body other than the urethra e.g. as described hereinabove.

For some applications balloon comprises more than two and or less than twenty non contiguous protruding portions. Each of the protruding portions is typically separated from an adjacent protruding portion by a distance of at least 1 mm.

For some applications a balloon is used to stimulate the bladder the balloon comprising portions thereof that have respective characteristics. The balloon is configured such that in an inflated state of the balloon the balloon defines a non uniform outer surface. For example the balloon may be configured to assume a ridged outer surface or a waved outer surface in an inflated state thereof. Typically for such applications the balloon is molded such that respective portions of the balloon are made of respective materials and or the respective portions are made of the same material the material having respective levels of flexibility and or hardness. For some applications the outer surface of the balloon is abrasive in order to facilitate mechanical stimulation of the bladder by the outer surface.

Reference is now made to which are schematic illustrations of catheter the catheter being configured to facilitate stimulation of the subject s bladder in accordance with some applications of the present invention. As shown in a control unit is disposed outside the subject s body. For some applications the control unit drives an electrical current into the inner wall of bladder as described hereinabove. Alternatively or additionally the control unit facilitates mechanical stimulation of the subject s bladder. For some applications the subject s bladder is mechanically stimulated by catheter in the absence of a control unit in accordance with the techniques described hereinbelow. For some applications protruding members protrude from balloon which is disposed at the distal end of catheter the protruding members being configured to facilitate electrical and or mechanical stimulation of the bladder as described hereinabove. Alternatively or additionally a balloon at the distal end of the catheter is configured to define protruding portions the protruding portions being configured to facilitate mechanical stimulation of the bladder as described with reference to .

For some applications catheter is used to apply stimulation e.g. electrical or mechanical stimulation to the trigone area of the subject s bladder. Alternatively catheter is used to apply stimulation e.g. electrical or mechanical stimulation to a different area of the subject s bladder. For some applications catheter is placed against the bladder wall and used to stimulate the bladder wall irrespective of the location of catheter with respect to the bladder wall.

For some applications control unit facilitates mechanical stimulation of the subject s bladder by controlling the level of inflation of balloon which is disposed at the distal end of the bladder. In accordance with respective applications the volume of the balloon is varied with time in accordance with a sinusoidal wave pattern a square wave pattern a trapezoidal wave pattern and or another wave pattern. For some applications the frequency with which the volume of the balloon is modulated is more than 0.1 Hz and or less than 1 Hz. Alternatively the frequency with which the volume of the balloon is modulated is less than 0.1 Hz e.g. less frequently than once an hour . Typically even when the volume of the balloon is being modulated the volume of the balloon does not fall below 5 cc and the diameter of the balloon does not fall below 1 cm. As described hereinabove for some applications balloon is inflated to a maximum volume of more than 30 cc e.g. more than 50 cc more than 100 cc or more than 250 cc.

For some applications when modulating the volume of the balloon the control unit accounts for fluid that leaks from the balloon such that the maximum volume of the balloon remains constant. For some applications the control unit electrically stimulates the bladder when balloon is maximally inflated and or otherwise coordinates electrical and mechanical stimulation cycles. Alternatively the control unit provides electrical and mechanical stimulation the electrical and mechanical stimulation not being coordinated with one another.

For some applications a reservoir of inflation fluid e.g. saline or air is disposed outside the subject s body e.g. in the vicinity of the control unit . The control unit controls a transfer of fluid from the external reservoir to balloon for example using a piston at proximal end of the catheter a pump disposed within catheter a peristaltic pump and or a different sort of pump. For some applications a level of inflation of balloon is controlled manually for example via a manually controlled pump disposed outside the subject s body e.g. in the vicinity of the control unit . For some applications the balloon is inflated using ambient air.

As described hereinabove and as shown in typically the shaft of catheter defines urine drainage lumen to facilitate outflow of urine from the subject s bladder. For some application lumen is blocked periodically in order to allow the bladder to fill with urine thereby mechanically stimulating the bladder by causing the bladder wall to be stretched.

For some applications control unit facilitates mechanical stimulation of the subject s bladder by vibrating a portion of catheter . For some applications the control unit vibrates a distal portion of the catheter e.g. balloon . For example wires may be disposed in the shaft of catheter and coupled to balloon and control unit at respective ends of the wires. The control unit vibrates balloon by controlling movement of the wires. Alternatively a pendulum not shown may be disposed inside the balloon and the balloon is vibrated by the pendulum moving e.g. by the pendulum passively moving due to movement of the subject or by the pendulum being actively moved by the control unit . For some applications a pendulum disposed inside balloon is left inside the bladder in the absence of catheter .

For some applications the control unit vibrates the shaft of the catheter. For some applications control unit vibrates balloon and or a different portion of catheter by directing ultrasound waves toward the catheter e.g. toward the catheter shaft.

For some applications a device is placed inside bladder and remains inside the subject s bladder in the absence of a catheter in order to provide mechanical stimulation to the subject s bladder. For example an expandable structure e.g. a balloon may be inserted into the subject s bladder e.g. via a catheter and left inside the subject s bladder in the absence of a catheter for more than one hour e.g. for more than one day. Alternatively a non expandable structure for example a hard structure such as a ball may be inserted into the subject s bladder e.g. via a catheter and left inside the subject s bladder in the absence of a catheter for more than one hour e.g. for more than one day. The expandable or non expandable structure provides mechanical stimulation to the subject s bladder by passively moving inside the bladder.

For some applications the expandable or non expandable structure is biodegradable and is left inside the subject s bladder to biodegrade. Alternatively subsequent to being placed in the bladder and being left in the bladder for a given period of time the structure is removed from the subject s bladder e.g. via a catheter and or using a different extraction device such as a thread that is coupled to the structure .

For some applications bladder and or a device that is placed inside the bladder is vibrated using an extracorporeal device. For example sonic or ultrasonic waves may be directed toward the bladder and or toward a device disposed inside the bladder. For some applications sonic or ultrasonic waves are directed toward the bladder from a location e.g. a suprapubic location outside the subject s body in order to mechanically stimulate the bladder by vibrating the bladder. Alternatively or additionally the sonic or ultrasonic waves are directed toward the bladder in order to stimulate the bladder by heating tissue of the bladder.

Alternatively or additionally a metallic device e.g. a catheter having a metallic tip or a metallic ball is placed inside the subject s bladder and is vibrated by directing a magnetic field toward the subject s bladder from a location e.g. a suprapubic location outside the subject s body.

For some applications mechanical stimulation is applied to the subject s bladder from a location of the subject s body that is outside of the subject s bladder. For example a location within the subject s vagina or anus may be vibrated in order to provide mechanical stimulation to the subject s bladder.

For some applications balloon is placed inside the subject s bladder the balloon being disposed at the distal end of catheter as shown in . The subject s bladder is mechanically simulated by pushing and or pulling the balloon and or the catheter shaft. For example the catheter shaft may be pulled manually or by control unit . Alternatively or additionally the catheter shaft may be pushed distally manually or by control unit such that balloon is pushed against the distal wall of the bladder. For some applications control unit varies the length of the catheter shaft for example by varying the length of wires which are disposed inside the shaft thereby causing balloon and or protrusions therefrom to rub against the wall of bladder .

For some applications a parameter of the subject s body e.g. a parameter of the subject s urine such as urine flow rate or urine impedance is measured. For example electrodes disposed on catheter may be configured to detect the impedance of the subject s urine. For some applications urine impedance is interpreted by the control unit as being indicative of urine osmolarity since urine impedance is typically correlated with urine osmolarity. For some applications urine impedance is interpreted by the control unit as being indicative of urine flow since urine impedance is typically correlated with urine osmolarity and in turn urine osmolarity is typically correlated with urine flow.

Responsively to the measured parameter control unit controls a parameter of a stimulation that is applied to the subject s bladder. For example the control unit may vary a parameter of an electrical current that is applied to the subject s bladder. Alternatively or additionally the control unit may vary a parameter of mechanical stimulation that is applied to the subject s bladder e.g. a frequency with which the volume of balloon is modulated a frequency with which catheter is vibrated and or a different parameter .

For some applications closed loop feedback techniques as described in PCT Application Publication WO 10 067360 to Bar Yoseph which is incorporated herein by reference may be used in conjunction with techniques for stimulating the bladder that are described herein. For example the stimulation may be provided responsively to an input from at least one internal or external sensor that generates an indication of a body function and or responsively to an input from another device such as a pacemaker or a urine analysis system. Alternatively or additionally input may be provided by a user e.g. in response to a subjective feeling.

For some applications the sensor includes a sensor that senses a urinary parameter such as urine chemistry urine volume and or urine flow. Alternatively or additionally the sensor includes a sensor that senses a parameter related to kidney function such as GFR urine flow urine composition secretion of hormones from the kidney in blood and or urine creatinine levels and or insulin levels. Further alternatively or additionally the sensor includes a sensor that senses a function of the urinary system for example urinary parameters peristalsis and or pressure. Still further alternatively or additionally the sensor includes a physiological sensor for measuring non urinary parameters of the body for example blood chemistry blood pressure heart rate breathing rate lung fluid volume and or ECG.

For some applications stimulation is provided responsively to an input from the subject and or a healthcare professional. For some applications stimulation is provided responsively to an environmental sensor. For example an acceleration sensor may be used to detect movement which may be indicative of blood pressure changes of the subject and or body posture of the subject. For example the sensor may detect that the subject is supine which may indicate that the subject is undergoing a rest period during which cardiac demand is low relative to cardiac demand during active periods of the subject. Alternatively or additionally a temperature sensor may be used to detect the ambient temperature and the bladder stimulation is provided responsively thereto.

Reference is now made to which are schematic illustrations of a covering sheath that is placed on inner balloon and that acts as a protrusion member protection layer in accordance with some applications of the present invention. Covering sheath is placed over balloon such that the covering sheath acts a protrusion member protection layer in a generally similar manner to that described hereinabove for example with reference to outer balloon .

Typically covering sheath is configured to protect the subject s urethra during insertion of the catheter into the subject s bladder when balloon is in a deflated state by the protruding members not protruding from the sheath during the insertion. For example during the insertion the covering sheath may at least partially cover the protruding members or may form a surface that is flush with outer surfaces of the protruding members. For some applications the covering sheath protects the protruding members from being damaged and or from becoming decoupled from balloon during insertion of the catheter into the subject s bladder. Typically when the balloon is disposed inside the subject s bladder the balloon is inflated. Covering sheath is shaped to define holes through which protruding members protrude when balloon is in an inflated state. For some applications edges of the covering sheath that define holes are thickened with respect to other portions of the covering sheath. For some applications the covering sheath covers electrical leads that are coupled to the protruding members.

It is noted that although a covering sheath having a specific shape is shown in the scope of the present invention includes having a generally similar covering sheath to that described hereinabove but with the covering sheath having a different shape from the specific shape shown in . For example the covering sheath may be shaped as a ring a belt a strip in a serpentine shape and or in any other shape.

For some applications covering sheath is made of the same material as balloon . For example the covering sheath may comprise a portion of balloon that has been cut from the rest of the balloon. Alternatively the covering sheath and the balloon may be molded separately and or may be made of different materials.

Reference is now made to which are schematic illustrations of a patch e.g. a silicone patch that is placed on a portion of balloon in accordance with some applications of the present invention. Patch is placed over balloon such that the patch acts a protrusion member protection layer in a generally similar manner to that described hereinabove for example with reference to outer balloon .

Typically patch is configured to protect the subject s urethra during insertion of the catheter into the subject s bladder when balloon is in a deflated state by the protruding members not protruding from the patch during the insertion. For example during the insertion the patch may at least partially cover the protruding members or may form a surface that is flush with outer surfaces of the protruding members. For some applications the patch protects the protruding members from being damaged and or from becoming decoupled from balloon during insertion of the catheter into the subject s bladder.

Typically when the balloon is disposed inside the subject s bladder the balloon is inflated. Patch is shaped to define holes through which protruding members protrude when balloon is in an inflated state. For some applications edges of the patch that define holes are thickened with respect to other portions of the patch. For some applications the patch covers electrical leads that are coupled to the protruding members.

For some applications the patch is shaped as a figure of eight and is configured to cover two protruding members as shown in . However it is noted that although a patch having a specific shape is shown in the scope of the present invention includes having a generally similar patch to that described hereinabove but with the patch having a different shape from the specific shape shown in . For example the patch may be shaped as a ring a belt a strip in a serpentine shape and or in any other shape.

For some applications the thickness of the patch decreases from a central portion of the patch to the edges of the patch. For example the decrease in the thickness of the patch may be such that the outer surface of the balloon and the outer surface of the patch form a generally smooth interface as shown in .

It is noted that techniques described with reference to and those described with reference to may be practiced in combination with each other.

Reference is now made to which shows the results of an experiment conducted in accordance with some applications of the present invention. Electrical stimulation was applied to the trigone area of the bladders of several sheep. The electrical stimulation was applied via two electrical contacts that protruded from a balloon disposed on a distal portion of a catheter as described hereinabove. The electrical stimulation was applied during stimulation periods lasting 15 minutes each. The stimulation was applied at 100 Hz and 10 mA with a 0.7 msec pulse width and with a biphasic rectangular waveform. The graphs shown in show the results of the stimulation one of the sheep.

The upper graph of shows the urine flow cc min that was measured in the sheep. The dashed vertical lines in the upper graph with the word ON therebetween indicate the period during which the stimulation was turned on. It may be observed that for two of the periods in which the stimulation was applied between approximately 140 min. and 155 min. and between approximately 220 min. and 235 min. the urine flow increased and the flow of urine remained elevated for a time period following the stimulation.

The middle graph of presents the percentage change in average urine flow a during the 15 minutes of stimulation versus 15 minutes preceding the stimulation period and b for the 15 minutes following the stimulation versus the 15 minutes preceding the stimulation period for each of the stimulation periods. It may be observed that for two of the periods in which the stimulation was applied between approximately 140 min. and 155 min. and between approximately 220 min. and 235 min. the urine flow increased and the flow of urine remained elevated for a time period following the stimulation.

The bottom graph of shows the pulse of the sheep as measured during the experiment. It may be observed that the sheep s pulse remained substantially unchanged during the stimulation of the sheep s bladder indicating that the stimulation did not cause stress to the sheep.

The results shown in indicate that electrical stimulation of a subject s bladder in accordance with the techniques described herein may cause an increase in the subject s urine flow without causing a substantial change to the subject s pulse. It is noted that although electrical stimulation was applied to several sheep the stimulation did not result in a substantial increase in urine flow in all of the sheep. Nevertheless the results shown in indicate that for at least some subjects electrical stimulation of the bladder may be effective at increasing urine flow.

Reference is now made to which shows the results of an experiment conducted in accordance with some applications of the present invention. Mechanical stimulation was applied to several sheep by inserting a distal portion of a catheter into the sheep s bladders. Two protrusions from a balloon at the distal portion of the catheter were oriented toward the trigone area of the sheep s bladders. An 88 gram weight was tied to the proximal end of the catheter for a period of 60 minutes to facilitate the mechanical stimulation. The graphs shown in show the results of the stimulation one of the sheep.

The upper graph of shows the urine flow that was measured in the sheep. The dashed vertical lines in the upper graph with the word ON therebetween indicate the period during which the stimulation was applied. It may be observed that during the stimulation period the urine flow increased.

The middle graph of presents the average urine flow rate a for a 60 minute period before the stimulation was applied b during the 60 minutes of stimulation and c for the 60 minutes following the stimulation period. It may be observed that during the stimulation period the urine flow increased substantially and remained somewhat elevated for the period that followed the stimulation period.

The bottom graph of shows the pulse of the sheep as measured during the experiment. It may be observed that the sheep s pulse remained substantially unchanged during the stimulation of the sheep s bladder indicating that the stimulation did not cause stress to the sheep.

The results shown in indicate that mechanical stimulation of a subject s bladder in accordance with the techniques described herein may cause an increase in the subject s urine flow without causing a substantial change to the subject s pulse. It is noted that although mechanical stimulation was applied to several sheep the mechanical stimulation did not result in a substantial increase in urine flow in all of the sheep. Nevertheless the results shown in indicate that for at least some subjects mechanical stimulation of the bladder may be effective at increasing urine flow.

Reference is now made to which shows the results of an experiment conducted in accordance with some applications of the present invention. Mechanical stimulation was applied to several sheep by inserting a distal portion of a catheter into the sheep s bladders. Two protrusions from a balloon at the distal portion of the catheter were oriented toward the trigone area of the sheep s bladders. During stimulation periods lasting 30 minutes each the volume of the balloon was modulated between 20 cc and 40 cc the modulation cycle being repeated two to three times a minute.

The upper graph of shows the urine flow that was measured in the sheep. The dashed vertical lines in the upper graph with the word ON therebetween indicate the period during which the stimulation was applied. It may be observed that during the stimulation periods the urine flow increased.

The middle graph of presents the percentage change in average urine flow a during the 30 minutes of stimulation versus 30 minutes preceding the stimulation period and b for the 30 minutes following the stimulation versus the 30 minutes preceding the stimulation period for each of the stimulation periods. It may be observed that for both of the periods in which the stimulation was applied the urine flow increased.

The bottom graph of shows the pulse of the sheep as measured during the experiment. It may be observed that the sheep s pulse remained substantially unchanged during the stimulation of the sheep s bladder indicating that the stimulation did not cause stress to the sheep.

The results shown in indicate that mechanical stimulation of a subject s bladder in accordance with the techniques described herein e.g. by modulating the volume of a balloon that is placed inside the bladder may cause an increase in the subject s urine flow without causing a substantial change to the subject s pulse. It is noted that although mechanical stimulation was applied to several sheep the mechanical stimulation did not result in a substantial increase in urine flow in all the sheep. Nevertheless the results shown in indicate that for at least some subjects mechanical stimulation of the bladder may be effective at increasing urine flow.

Reference is now made to which shows the results of an experiment conducted in accordance with some applications of the present invention. Mechanical stimulation was applied to several sheep by inserting a distal portion of a catheter into the sheep s bladders. Two protrusions from a balloon at the distal portion of the catheter were oriented toward the trigone area of the sheep s bladders. During stimulation periods lasting 30 minutes each an 88 gram weight was tied to the proximal end of the catheter to facilitate the mechanical stimulation. During the stimulation periods the volume of the balloon was modulated between 20 cc and 40 cc the modulation cycle being repeated two to three times a minute. The graphs shown in show the results of the stimulation one of the sheep.

The upper graph of shows the urine flow that was measured in the sheep. The dashed vertical lines in the upper graph with the word ON therebetween indicate the period during which the stimulation was applied. It may be observed that during the first stimulation period the urine flow increased. The urine flow remained elevated until after the second stimulation period there having been an interval of more than 50 minutes between the first and second stimulation periods.

The middle graph of presents the percentage change in average urine flow a during the 30 minutes of stimulation versus 30 minutes preceding the stimulation period and b for the 30 minutes following the stimulation versus the 30 minutes preceding the stimulation period for each of the stimulation periods. It may be observed that during the first stimulation period the urine flow increased. The urine flow continued to increase subsequent to the first stimulation period. The urine flow decreased slightly during the second stimulation period and decreased more during the period following the second stimulation period.

The bottom graph of shows the pulse of the sheep as measured during the experiment. It may be observed that the sheep s pulse remained substantially unchanged during the stimulation of the sheep s bladder indicating that the stimulation did not cause stress to the sheep.

The results shown in indicate that mechanical stimulation of a subject s bladder in accordance with the techniques described herein e.g. by modulating the volume of a balloon that is placed inside the bladder may cause an increase in the subject s urine flow without causing a substantial change to the subject s pulse. It is noted that although mechanical stimulation was applied to several sheep the mechanical stimulation did not result in a substantial increase in urine flow in all the sheep. Nevertheless the results shown in indicate that for at least some subjects mechanical stimulation of the bladder may be effective at increasing urine flow.

Reference is now made to which shows the results of a control experiment conducted in accordance with some applications of the present invention. A distal portion of a catheter was inserted into a sheep s bladders. Two protrusions from a balloon at the distal portion of the catheter were oriented toward the trigone area of the sheep s bladders. Electrical stimulation was not provided to the bladder via the contacts the volume of the balloon was not modulated and a weight was not placed on the catheter.

The upper graph of shows the urine flow that was measured in the sheep over a period of more than 300 minutes during which the catheter was inserted into the sheep s bladder. The lower graph shows the pulse of the sheep as measured during the experiment. It may be observed that sheep s urine flow and pulse remained substantially unchanged during the experiment. These results indicate that for at least some subjects it may be desirable to apply electrical stimulation to the bladder via the protrusions from the balloon and or to move the protrusions or cause the protrusions to move with respect to the inner bladder wall in order to cause an increase in urine flow. Alternatively for some subjects placing a catheter inside the bladder a balloon being disposed at the distal end of the catheter and the balloon defining protrusions therefrom as described herein even without applying electrical stimulation to the bladder via the protrusions from the balloon and or moving the protrusions or causing the protrusions to move with respect to the inner bladder wall may cause an increase in urine flow.

For some applications the techniques described herein are combined with techniques described in PCT Application Publication WO 10 067360 to Bar Yoseph and or in U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 355 522 filed Jun. 16 2010 both of which applications are incorporated herein by reference.

For example for some applications apparatus and methods are provided for controlling body functions using stimulation of the urinary system. Typically the body functions include kidney functions such as glomerular filtration rate GFR urine flow rate urine composition urine density and renal hormone secretion. Optionally or alternatively the body functions include cardiovascular functions such as blood pressure portal pressure pulmonary pressure organ including renal blood flow cardiac output heart rate intravascular and extravascular fluid volume pulmonary and body edema levels. Optionally or alternatively the functions are bodywide systems such as blood chemistry or sympathetic nerve activity.

For some applications body functions are affected by modifying kidney function. For example kidney function is modified by controlling a renal reflex such as the reno renal reflex or the vesico vascular reflex. Optionally kidney function is modified by changing a parameter of peristalsis e.g. by overpacing with sensing of self pacing or at an enforced frequency of one or both ureters. For some applications such stimulation modulates a reno renal reflex mediated by the ureter and or affects urine pressure in the kidney.

For some applications the parts of the urinary system stimulated are parts which are adapted to carry urine such as the kidney pelvis the ureter and or the bladder. Optionally the stimulated part includes afferent nerves which are affected by the stimulation. Optionally stimulation in accordance with applications of the present invention is provided in conjunction with other treatment such as administration of medication and or stimulation of other parts of the body. For some applications the treatment s control compensate for force manage modulate and or stand in for natural body feedback cycles e.g. damaged and or healthy natural body feedback cycles. Optionally the stimulation and or control of body physiology are used as a long term treatment optionally with a goal of treating preventing degradation and or maintaining a state of a patient.

Some applications of the invention are based on experimental data obtained by the inventors that indicates that stimulation of the urinary system can affect kidney function and or other bodywide functions rather than merely affecting local function such as peristalsis or bladder voiding. In particular the inventors obtained experimental data that indicates that stimulating the bladder bladder trigone the ureters as well as other parts of the urinary system affects kidney and or other body functions including functions not directly related to urinary functioning such as cardiovascular functions for example blood pressure . While not limiting the scope of the present invention the inventors hypothesize that such stimulation affects existing feedback cycles in the body possibly by affecting the source of feedback signals e.g. the afferent nerves and or by causing activity of the stimulated portions which then modulates existing reflex feedback cycles.

In accordance with respective applications of the invention the stimulation that is provided includes electrical stimulation chemical stimulation thermal stimulation and or mechanical stimulation.

For some applications an implanted device is used for stimulating the urinary system. Alternatively or additionally the device includes a transurethrally or transcutaneously inserted stimulator which may optionally extend out of the urethra to an external stimulator controller and or power source. Optionally the device includes a stimulator inside the bladder inside the kidney and or inside the ureter. Optionally the device operates by expanding the ureter.

For some applications of the invention an intraureteral stimulator is provided that is thin and or soft enough such that the stimulator allows urine flow past the stimulator and or does not interfere with valves of the urinary tract. Optionally the stimulator is equipped with an anchoring mechanism such as a curved element at an end of the stimulator. For example a pig tail may be provided on one or both sides of the stimulator. Alternatively or additionally the stimulator may define a widening form for example radially extending arms or a conical coil which lodges in the urinary system for example in the kidney pelvis and or bladder. For some applications the stimulator is configured to stimulate the urinary system at the widening form.

Some applications of the present invention relate to treating modifying and or maintaining body functions using a urinary system stimulator device or system . While in some applications of the invention a device may apply an open loop treatment whereby a therapy is set for a desired effect for alternative applications of the invention the device is configured to receive an input. For example the device may be configured to receive an input from an internal or external sensor or more than one sensor which generates an indication of body function or to receive an input from other devices such as a pacemaker or urine analysis system and or input from a user e.g. in response to a subjective feeling of the user . Optionally or alternatively the stimulation device is used in a manner in which a closed feedback loop is applied.

In some applications of the invention the sensor includes a sensor of kidney function and urinary parameters such as one or more of urine chemistry urine volume and urine flow. Optionally or alternatively the sensor includes a sensor that senses a parameter associated with kidney function for example GFR urine flow urine composition secretion of hormones from the kidney in blood and or urine creatinine levels and or insulin levels. Optionally or alternatively the sensor includes a sensor that senses a parameter associated with urinary systems function for example urinary parameters peristalsis and or pressure. Optionally or alternatively the sensor includes a physiological a sensor that senses a parameter associated with non urinary systems for example blood chemistry blood pressure heart rate breathing rate lung fluid volume and or ECG. Optionally or alternatively the sensor includes an input for user entry of a command or of a physiological parameter. Optionally or alternatively to a physiological sensor an environmental sensor is used. For example an acceleration sensor may be used to sense movement which may be indicative of blood pressure changes for example or body posture which may be indicative of the subject undergoing a rest period e.g. if the subject is supine during which cardiac demand is lower. Alternatively or additionally a temperature sensor may be used to indicate environmental temperature which may be indicative of sweating rate for example .

Some applications of the invention relate to non electrical stimulation of the urinary system for example thermal mechanical and or chemical stimulation of the ureter trigone and or kidney. For some applications a device for mechanical stimulation includes an element which expands inside the ureter and thereby simulates a blockage. Optionally the element does not block urine flow. Alternatively the element does block urine flow.

Some applications of the invention relate to an integrated bladder dwelling stimulation system. Optionally the system is adapted to be inserted through a urethra. Optionally or alternatively the system is adapted to be inserted via the pubic area. Optionally the system includes in a single unit sensing control and power functionalities. Optionally the system is designed to specifically stimulate the trigone.

For some applications mechanical receptors are triggered by stretching pressure or vibration. For example expanding an object in a ureter can simulate blockage of the ureter by a reno renal reflex. Such expansion need not block the ureter but can be used to selectively reduce output from the partially blocked kidney and or increase output from an opposite kidney.

For some applications mechanical stimulation in the ureter is provided intermittently since chronic dilatation of the ureter may result in refractoriness with the ureter possibly expanding to a larger volume.

Optionally the ureter is expanded by a balloon. Optionally or alternatively the trigone is mechanically activated by one or both of a balloon and or a stiff mechanical element that is moved by an external or an internal engine or by magnetism.

It is noted with respect to that for some applications two or more of the following techniques are used in conjunction with each other 

It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited to what has been particularly shown and described hereinabove. Rather the scope of the present invention includes both combinations and subcombinations of the various features described hereinabove as well as variations and modifications thereof that are not in the prior art which would occur to persons skilled in the art upon reading the foregoing description.

