---

title: Monetizing service calls through advertising
abstract: A platform service that is used by an application may be linked to an advertising service. A cost of using the platform service may be reduced based on the linking.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08849696&OS=08849696&RS=08849696
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08849696
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120618
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 394 197 filed Mar. 31 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 224 695 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Implementations consistent with the principles of the invention relate generally to communication systems and more particularly to monetizing calls to a platform service through advertising.

Developers of desktop and network based applications may incorporate services such as e mail services mapping services search services etc. into their applications that are provided by a third party. Two common approaches to providing a service to an application developer include charging the application developer a per transaction fee for the use of the service and making the service completely free to the application developer. Problems exist in both of these approaches.

For example charging the application developer a per transaction fee for using the service holds back the application developer from even creating the application since no developer wants to get stuck with fees they cannot pay forces the application developer to think about money before user experience and causes the application developer to be fully committed to the business model making the barriers for participation very high. In the second approach where the service is completely free to the application developer there are no clear or obvious incentives for the application developer to efficiently use the third party s services towards a goal that is in line with the third party. Moreover application developers can create applications that only have a very tangential relationship to the third party s business and the third party foots the entire bill for the backend infrastructure since again the services are free.

In accordance with one implementation consistent with the principles of the invention a method may include tracking for an application that provides at least one advertising link and uses a platform service a number of times that the at least one advertising link is selected over a period of time where the application is associated with a first party and the platform service is associated with a second party. The method may further include providing an amount of free access to the platform service to the first party based on the tracking.

In another implementation consistent with the principles of the invention a method may include tracking for a document that provides at least one advertising link and uses a platform service a number of times that the at least one advertising link is selected over a period of time where the document is associated with a first party and the platform service is associated with a second party. The method may further include providing a monetary value to the first party based on the tracking.

In yet another implementation consistent with the principles of the invention a method may include linking for an application a use of a platform service to an advertising service and reducing a cost of using the platform service based on the linking.

In still another implementation consistent with the principles of the invention a method may include charging a party a fee for allowing a document that is associated with a first party to use a service associated with a second party providing via the second party an advertising link to the document when the document is accessed tracking activity relating to the advertising link and providing a monetary value to the first party based on the tracking.

The following detailed description of implementations consistent with the principles of the invention refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description does not limit the invention.

Systems and methods consistent with the principles of the invention provide application developers with incentives for providing advertising in their applications. Developers may create web based or desktop applications based on a service provided by a third party. For example a developer may create a desktop application using a service such as a network search service a mapping service an e mail service or another service that is provided by a third party. The backend infrastructure for the service may be provided by the third party as a set of web service application programming interfaces APIs exposed by the third party.

Implementations consistent with the principles of the invention provide a new business model backed up with a set of web services developer tools and backend infrastructure to allow those who develop and publish software both web based and desktop to monetize their work through targeted advertising. In one implementation consistent with the principles of the invention the developer s usage of a third party service is linked together with an advertising service provided by the third party. As the developer s application generates clicks by showing advertising in their application the developer is granted credits by the third party to make service calls to the service provided by the third party. More clicks and more revenue mean more credits keeping the usage of the service essentially free for the developer.

In application links the third party s mapping service which provides information to map section to the third party s advertising service which provides advertising links for advertising section . In one implementation consistent with the principles of the invention as users click on displayed advertising links the developer may be provided with free service calls to mapping service .

By linking together the usage of a service e.g. search maps etc. with the usage of an advertising service the incentives of the third party and the developer become aligned. This linking provides stronger incentives for the developer to create innovative applications to use the third party s services and to monetize through advertising. The linking also gives the third party a stronger incentive to provide such services to developers since it increases the third party s revenue potential while decreasing the prohibitive costs associated with providing and supporting such services.

Clients may include client entities. An entity may be defined as a device such as a personal computer a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a lap top or another type of computation or communication device a thread or process running on one of these devices and or an object executable by one of these devices. Servers may include server entities that gather process search and or maintain documents in a manner consistent with the principles of the invention.

While servers are shown as separate entities it may be possible for one or more of servers to perform one or more of the functions of another one or more of servers . For example it may be possible that two or more of servers are implemented as a single server. It may also be possible for a single one of servers to be implemented as two or more separate and possibly distributed devices.

Network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a telephone network such as the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an intranet the Internet another type of network or a combination of networks. Clients and servers may connect to network via wired wireless and or optical connections.

Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Main memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor . ROM may include a ROM device or another type of static storage device that may store static information and instructions for use by processor . Storage device may include a magnetic and or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive.

Input device may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to the client server entity such as a keyboard a mouse a pen voice recognition and or biometric mechanisms etc. Output device may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator including a display a printer a speaker etc. Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables the client server entity to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network such as network .

As will be described in detail below the client server entity consistent with the principles of the invention may perform certain operations. The client server entity may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a physical or logical memory device and or carrier wave.

The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as data storage device or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in memory may cause processor to perform processes that will be described later. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes consistent with the principles of the invention. Thus implementations consistent with the principles of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Platform services software may include software for interfacing with services provided by a third party. For example the services may include search services mapping services e mail services and or other types of services that may be used in an application. Advertisement services software may include software for providing advertising links. Advertisement services software may in one implementation consistent with the principles of the invention provide advertising links based on the content of the application to which the advertising links will be provided. For example if the application to which the advertising links are to be provided relates to finding apartments advertisement services software may select and provide advertising links relating to finding apartments.

The application may be linked to an advertisement service act . The advertisement service may also be provided by the third party. Linking the platform service to the advertisement service allows for advertisements to be provided to users accessing the application. illustrates an exemplary application that may be created by a developer in which a platform service a mapping service associated with a third party is linked to an advertising service that is also associated with the third party. The linking of the platform service to the advertising service for the application may be performed for example via software code within the application e.g. the software code may cause advertising links to be retrieved and displayed when the application is accessed by a user .

It is assumed herein that the application uses a platform service such as a mapping service provided by a third party and an advertisement service that is also provided by the third party. To use the platform service the application may transmit a service call to the mapping service or an application programming interface of the mapping service . The service call may request for example that the mapping service provide a specific map to the application. In the situation where the platform service includes an e mail service the service call may request for example that the e mail service provide e mails for a specific account e.g. the e mail account associated with the user to the application. In the situation where the platform service includes a search service the service call may request for example that the search service perform a search based on a search query provided by the user and return the results of the search to the application.

One or more advertising links may be provided to the application for display to the user act . In one implementation consistent with the principles of the invention upon activation of the application the application may send a request to the advertisement service for advertising links. The advertisement service may select advertising links based on the content of the application. For example if the application provides apartment locator information as in the example illustrated in the advertisement service may select advertising links that relate to locating apartments.

Credit may be provided to the application developer based on the provided advertising links act . It is assumed herein that the application developer and the owner of the application are the same entity. When the application developer and owner of the application are different entities it will be appreciated that the credit may be provided to the owner of the application.

The third party or another party may track activity associated with the advertising links over a period of time and provide credit to the application developer based on the amount of activity. For example credit may be provided to the application developer based on advertising link impressions clicks and or conversions. An impression refers to the display of advertising links to a user of the application. When a particular advertising link is of interest to a user the user may select or click the advertising link which may cause the user s web browser to visit a web page belonging to the advertiser associated with the advertising link. This selection of an advertising link by a user is referred to hereinafter as a click. In addition an advertising link may be provided to a user i.e. an impression and then the user may perform a certain action such as providing information relating to the user purchasing a good or service joining a group or activity providing permission for certain actions by the advertiser or another party or the like. This action by the user is referred to hereinafter as a conversion. Thus the third party may provide credit to the application developer each time that advertising links are displayed to a user of the application each time a user selects a displayed advertising link and or each time a user performs a conversion in relation to an advertising link.

The amount of credit provided by the third party may be configurable. For example the third party may determine that a first number of credits should be provided to the application developer when an advertising link is displayed a second higher number of credits should be provided to the application developer when an advertising link is clicked and a third even higher number of credits should be provided to the application developer for each conversion. Other ways of determining an amount of credit to provide to the application developer are also possible.

There are a number of ways in which credit may be provided to the application developer. For example the third party may provide the application developer with a predetermined number of service calls to the platform service for a period of time. If the actual number of service calls during the period of time exceeds the predetermined number the third party may charge the application developer a fee for service calls over the predetermined number. The third party may increase the predetermined number in response to user advertising related activity. For example the third party may increase the predetermined number in response to advertising link impressions clicks of displayed advertising links and or conversions. Thus as the developer s application generates more impressions clicks conversions the application s use of the platform service becomes essentially free for the developer.

As an alternative to or in addition to providing an increased number of free service calls to the application developer for impressions clicks conversions the third party may provide true monetary incentives to the application developer for impressions clicks conversions. For example the third party may charge the application developer a variable monthly fee for service calls to the platform service. The third party may then refund some money as impressions clicks conversions are generated. Alternatively the third party may charge the application developer a fixed fee for using the platform service. The third party may then refund some money as impressions clicks conversions are generated. In both situations the developer s cost for accessing the platform service may be drastically reduced even to zero once usage of the developer s application is high enough.

The following example illustrates the above processing. In this example assume as illustrated in that a developer created an application that provides reviews for pizza establishments. As illustrated application may provide individual reviews of pizza establishments in an area of interest Pittsburgh in the example illustrated in . Application also provides a map from a third party s mapping service that shows the location of the pizza establishments for which reviews are provided. In order to reduce the cost of using the third party s mapping service the developer may link the use of the third party s mapping service to an advertisement service provided by the third party act . Thus the developer s interests are aligned with the third party s interests. The developer benefits from providing the third party s advertisements by reducing the cost of using the third party s mapping service. The third party benefits from providing advertisements in the developer s application through advertisement revenues.

Once application is developed it may be provided to users act . For example if application is a desktop application it may be provided to users via the Internet e.g. via a download and then installed and executed by the users. If application is a web based application it may for example be provided to users in response to the users accessing a particular document e.g. web page .

In any event when users access application advertising links may be provided that relate to the content of application which in this example is pizza establishments. The third party may track the user s interaction with application . For example the third party may track the identity of the advertisements that are provided to users which advertisements have been clicked and or the number of conversions that occurred act . The third party may provide the application developer with credits e.g. free service calls to the mapping service and or monetary payouts based on the number of advertising impressions clicks and or conversions act .

As indicated above the linking of a third party s platform service calls to the third party s advertisement service keeps the application developer s incentives aligned with the incentives of the third party. For example the developer is interested in developing a valuable and practical application with a great user experience in which users are interested thereby generating demand for the application and providing advertising in his her application and generating useful impressions clicks conversions that ultimately raise the limit of free service calls to the third party s platform services allowing the application to continue to grow for free using the third party s backend infrastructure. The third party is interested in providing compelling useful well documented supported platform services including APIs that developers can use to build great desktop and web based applications providing easy to use yet powerful advertising APIs that developers can use to quickly integrate targeted advertising into their applications sharing revenue from the advertising with the developer and providing continued free access to the third party s platform services for successful powerful useful applications that users love and demand.

Systems and methods consistent with the principles of the invention link the use of platform services with the use of advertising services providing application developers with incentives for providing advertising in their applications.

The foregoing description of exemplary embodiments of the invention provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. For example while series of acts have been described with regard to the order of the acts may be modified in other implementations consistent with the principles of the invention. Further non dependent acts may be performed in parallel.

The preceding description refers to a user. A user is intended to refer to a client such as a client or an operator of a client.

It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that aspects of the invention as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement aspects consistent with the principles of the invention is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of the aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that one of ordinary skill in the art would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the aspects based on the description herein.

Further certain portions of the invention may be implemented as logic that performs one or more functions. This logic may include hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit or a field programmable gate array software or a combination of hardware and software.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

