---

title: Method and system for conserving network resources when sending information to mobile devices
abstract: Information is provided to a mobile device while reducing the number of traffic channels established over a predetermined time period. A pull client on a mobile device receives requests for information from applications on the mobile device. The pull client creates a timing list which includes the timing requirements for each application. Applications that have overlapping timing requirements are grouped together into the same timing group. Once the time for creating a traffic channel for one of the groups arrives, a traffic channel is created between the mobile device and a carrier gateway. Information for each respective application within the same timing group is obtained through the network using the same traffic channel. When the requested information is provided to all applications within the same timing group, the traffic channel is released after a predetermined time. The method is repeated for a next timing group entry.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08943204&OS=08943204&RS=08943204
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 08943204
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120123
---
In recent years the use of mobile devices and wireless networks has become increasingly widespread. As the use of the mobile devices has increased the number and quality of additional features made available with the devices has also dramatically increased. Modern networks and many mobile devices support wireless packet data communication to and from the mobile devices in addition to the more traditional voice and messaging features. The data communication capabilities offer users a wide range of desirable communication features such as email web surfing application selection and downloading media content selection and downloading etc.

For many of the features or services the mobile devices generally operate as clients with respect to service provider servers. With the client server model the mobile devices themselves typically initiate all data communications with the service provider servers. For example wireless mobile devices now may include applications that provide useful and or entertaining features for a user. Many of these features make information requests by communicating with a server. In some cases the information requests may be periodic. For example the mobile device may include a weather application that updates every 15 minutes a news application that updates every 10 minutes or a stock application that updates every 5 minutes. By making periodic updates the user is provided with up to date information on their mobile device. However each update requires that the mobile device send a request for the update to the respective server.

As a result every time there is an information request by any application the mobile device establishes a traffic i.e. communication channel with the server over a wireless network. Further every time a traffic channel is established between a mobile device and the server the mobile device the associated subscriber account and the requesting application is authenticated and or validated. Accordingly a substantial amount of signaling i.e. handshaking is typically performed between a mobile device and the network in order to facilitate each communication with a server. However once the communication with the network is completed for a particular application of the mobile device the traffic channel is released after a predetermined time e.g. 7 seconds . Any subsequent update i.e. communication with the same or a different server through the network requires a traffic channel to be re established requiring significant overhead in terms of network and communication resources. As mobile devices are becoming smarter by introducing an ever increasing amount of features the resource problem of having to repeatedly establish a traffic channel is further exacerbated.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

The various examples discussed below enable applications on a mobile device to obtain content from one or more application servers in an efficient way. illustrates a block diagram of an exemplary system which provides content information to a mobile device . Mobile device includes a user interface one or more applications and a communication interface . Via the interface the mobile device can communicate with a carrier gateway over a wireless network not shown to obtain content from application servers .

In the example of a microprocessor serves as a programmable controller or processor for the mobile device in that it controls operations of the mobile device in accord with programming that it executes for all normal operations for operations involved in the authentication and identification procedure operations of the pull client and operations of the communication interface . In the example the mobile device includes flash type program memory for storage of various software or firmware program routines and mobile configuration settings such as mobile telephone number MTN or MDN etc. The mobile device may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. In a present implementation the flash type program memory stores firmware such as a boot routine device driver software an operating system call processing software and any of a wide variety of other applications. The memories also store various data such as telephone numbers and server addresses downloaded data such as multimedia content and various data input by the user. Programming stored in the flash type program memory is loaded into and executed by the microprocessor .

The mobile device communicates through a wireless mobile communication network not shown in operated by a network services provider or carrier. The carrier network offers transport and feature functions for voice communications messaging communications and various types of data communications. At least for some of the data services the mobile device links through the mobile communication network to a carrier gateway to access relevant carrier network resources and to establish data communications through the network with data services offered by the network carrier and or other service providers represented by the application servers in the drawing. The carrier gateway may be a base station network switch and or gateway server resident in or on the periphery of the carrier s mobile communication network. The carrier gateway authenticates the mobile device and upon successful authentication allows the mobile device to access network provided communication services. Although only one gateway is shown for convenience there may be any number of such gateways in or coupled to the wireless communication network. The mobile device may be a cell phone smart phone tablet computer or other mobile device capable of communicating with and connecting to carrier gateway over the wireless carrier network or other appropriate network e.g. a WI FI network providing network connectivity to the carrier network.

Mobile device includes a communication interface for communicating with the wireless network. For data services the interface enables the mobile device to communicate through the network with the carrier gateway . The mobile device also includes one or more elements and programming for providing a user interface for receiving input from a user and presenting information to the user. Also one or more applications run on the mobile device . For example the applications reside in the flash memory . The applications receive and or transmit input output commands and or data using user interface other programming and communication interface . In particular communication interface allows applications to communicate with application servers such as application server s to send data to or receive data from the application server s . For communications with a server an application functions as a client or client application.

The mobile device implements a pull communication framework. As a result mobile device itself initiates requests for transmission to from carrier gateway and application server . From time to time an application or other program running on mobile device requires a communication session with an application server . For discussion purposes we will assume that it is the application that is ready to communicate with an application server . In such a case the application causes the processor to transmit a request to the communication interface . In response to the request the communication interface establishes communication with the carrier gateway through the mobile network. After authentication validation of the mobile device and the application with the carrier gateway the interface communicates through the network with the particular application server . Once communication with the application server is established the application and application server exchange data over the established data connection. 

For example the client application requests information and the application server sends the requested information in a response. In many traditional data services the user operates the mobile device to execute the application and initiate a request for user identified information. Increasingly mobile applications are configured to automatically obtain notifications of updates as events occur. In common examples of automatic requests the request for data relate to updates to weather to stock reports to news or to any other status information. In an example where the client and server applications implement a pull model to automatically provide notifications or status information the requests for data take the form of periodic update requests. The request and response is termed a pull communication because the client application is effectively pulling down data from the server side application .

To align the timing of data requests like the periodic requests to pull down notification or other status data the mobile device additionally implements a pull client to provide pull data communication capabilities to mobile device and carrier gateway . Pull client is a software application running on and or a hardware module located in mobile device that provides pull data communication functionality to other applications on the mobile device . Further pull client provides coordination between the different applications by grouping information and or update requests together thereby facilitating information retrieval and or updates to several applications in a single traffic channel or session. The grouping and information transfer is discussed in more detail in a later section.

Pull client interfaces with communication interface to establish a connection to carrier gateway when desirable with respect to one or more requests for data for the applications running on the mobile device . When the mobile device establishes a network link with the carrier gateway the pull client is configured to establish a traffic channel i.e. communication session with the network through the carrier gateway . For example when one or more client applications running on client device request communication with the network for an information update a single traffic channel enables pull client to receive information to update several applications during that one session before the same traffic channel is released expires. Thus several applications are updated without having to establish a new traffic channel for each information request for the different applications. Once the information updates are complete the traffic channel is released after a predetermined time e.g. 7 seconds . For example the network waits for this predetermined time in which no traffic occurs to confirm that the mobile device previously using the traffic channel is now idle and that the traffic channel can be released.

The traffic channel is used by the pull client to receive data messages notifications or other transmissions from application server s such as to pull client on the mobile device . Although many of the examples discussed here relate to periodic requests for notifications or updates a transmission from the mobile device can include a notification request or instruction data or other transmission for the mobile device for an application running on the mobile device and or for a user of the mobile device . The responsive pull transmission from the application server can include data of any type or length e.g. a data audio video or other file an executable program a software application program or update a mobile device or application configuration file or the like . Pull client receives the transmissions from the application server s identifies the target recipient of the transmission e.g. a target recipient application ensures that the target recipient is able to receive the transmission e.g. by waking up or beginning execution of the target recipient if necessary and causes the processor to forward the data contained in the transmission to the target recipient within the mobile device .

In one example the mobile device may run a weather forecast application which provides up to date weather information and weather alerts to a user of the mobile device . The mobile device may also run a traffic application that provides up to date traffic information and related alerts to the user. For example these applications may have similar update periods e.g. start at every 10 minutes which may be deferred up to 2 minutes i.e. tolerance . If there is an overlap between the earliest time these applications can start and the latest time these applications can start the pull client groups these applications together and adjusts the timing of each application such that they both trigger during the same traffic channel session. Accordingly upon beginning execution the weather forecast application and the traffic update application requests are scheduled by the pull client to be grouped into the same timing group. Thus by grouping together applications with similar timing requirements the pull client allows a single traffic channel to be used by the carrier gateway to provide the corresponding applications running on the device with the requested information. This periodic update is accomplished on a single traffic channel thereby obviating the need for establishing consecutive network resource intensive traffic channels.

The pull client groups applications with similar update time requirements e.g. overlapping minimum and maximum possible trigger times . For each group the trigger time is adjusted such that all applications within the group are updated during the timing for the same traffic channel. Once the update for the group of applications completes the traffic channel is released after the predetermined time. If there are several timing groups of applications i.e. applications that are separated into different timing groups but having start timing before expiration of the predetermined time following updates for a preceding group a similar sequence is repeated for each group of applications. For example the updates are provided by application server s through carrier gateway without release and recreation of the traffic channel for each application in a respective timing group or in some cases between updates for applications in several timing groups.

The automatic grouping by the pull client of applications with similar information update requirements reduces the signaling received by the carrier gateway and application server. By reducing the number of sessions that require authentication at the carrier gateway and session set up through the network to from the mobile device the communication network and the servers communication and processing loads are reduced.

While the general functionality of pull client the carrier gateway and the application server s have been described with reference to a more detailed example of the process or operations is provided in . is a flow diagram illustrating an exemplary interaction between a mobile device and an application server .

In step an application running on mobile device generates and transmits a data request to pull client . The request includes the network timer information including delay for triggering the callback from when the request is sent period the time tolerance and a callback of the particular application to be called when the timer expires. For example the delay may be 10 minutes while the tolerance may be in milliseconds e.g. 100 ms . Although the period may be provided the data request may not be periodic. Instead it could be a single information request. As to callback it is an application ID or function pointer and the like that allows the responding server to send back data in a manner that the processor can effectively route to the appropriate application. Several other applications on mobile device may also perform similar requests with identical or alternate respective network timer information.

In step the pull client manages each request from the application s . For example the pull client adds each set of timing information to a timing list that the pull client maintains.

In step the pull client sorts the timing list in torder such as in an ascending order i.e. from the lowest to the highest t . In other examples the pull client may sort in an ascending based on t or a descending order based on tor t . Accordingly a requested timing array queue is maintained by the pull client . . . where

Accordingly in the first iteration the minimum possible trigger time for the timer n is equivalent to the delay plus the current time. The maximum possible trigger time for timer n is equivalent to the current time plus delay plus tolerance. All timers of applications that have a timing that overlaps between tand tare grouped together. By way of example illustrates an example of an unsorted listing of applications with their respective timing requirements. illustrates the applications having been sorted from the minimum i.e. earliest tto the maximum i.e. latest t. also illustrates the grouping of applications into different timing groups i.e. step in . In the example of timing group comprises applications and in ascending torder . Similarly timing group comprises applications . Thus the applications are grouped such that the trigger in a timing group e.g. the minimum t falls after the maximum tof each application in the timing group.

Referring back to it should be noted that steps to are updated every time there is a request for information from any application . Further for periodic signals the timer is adjusted after the completion of the first timer execution. For example period and tolerance where

Steps to reflect cycles that are continuous. In this regard in step the pull client determines whether the tof the present timing group i.e. t has expired. If the time for the minimum tfor the timing group has not arrived the traffic channel is kept dormant i.e. traffic channel is not active . However if the time for thas arrived then the traffic channel is established in step allowing information to be accessed from the network. Thus a traffic channel is created with a carrier gateway thereby allowing communication with one or more application server s to retrieve information for applications scheduled for this particular timing group.

In step the callback associated with the trigger is invoked thereby providing a specific start point. The trigger time for the application is set to tand n set to 1 in preparation for the next trigger. Thus the next trigger will be n 1.

In step the pull client determines whether the present time is between tand t. Put differently the pull client determines whether the time for a trigger has arrived for the next application on the sorted list. Upon determining that the time for a trigger has arrived in step the timer for the application is triggered. Further the application n is incremented e.g. the next application becomes the present application for the upcoming timing trigger on the sorted list .

However upon determining that the time for a trigger has not arrived the traffic channel is closed in step . Further in step all triggered timers are removed from the sorted timing list and the method continues with step .

In one embodiment the sequence of applications that are serviced within a timing group is randomized. The randomization occurs in step . For example the randomization may prevent bursts of data at certain times e.g. as soon as the traffic channel is created which burdens the network. In this regard the time for each particular application may be deferred such that each application has a slightly different timer while the same traffic channel session is used. For example for a group of applications sharing the same traffic channel i.e. are in the same timing group and wherein 

In this example the particular timer for each application is modified slightly by the following algorithm 

Accordingly by staggering the timing for each application the foregoing randomization prevents bursts of data traffic over the network once a traffic channel is created. For example each application is accommodated at a slightly different time during the same traffic channel.

Referring back to once a timer for a group of applications is active a traffic channel is established between mobile device and the carrier gateway . For example a wireless data link from mobile device running application and pull client is established with carrier gateway through a carrier network. The data link is a wireless over the air interface between the mobile device and the serving base station or wireless access point shown in a later figure . From the base station or access point to the gateway the communication may use wire fiber or other transport media. In addition to establishing a wireless data link the mobile device is authenticated for service on the carrier network for voice data and or other communication. Alternatively or additionally the wireless data link can be established between mobile device and carrier gateway through a WI FI or other appropriate network. The data link can thus be a wireless over the air connection between the mobile device and a WI FI access point and or a wire fiber or other connection from the access point to the carrier gateway .

When a traffic channel between mobile device and carrier gateway is established an application running on mobile device and requiring communication functionality generates and transmits a data communication request to pull client .

An authentication and registration request to establish a traffic channel includes an application ID received from each application as well as one or more identifiers for the mobile device and or pull client transmitting the request. Examples of identifiers for the mobile device include a mobile directory number MDN a mobile identification number MIN an international mobile subscriber identity number IMSI a hardware ID such as a mobile equipment identifier MEID indicators for the type and version of operating system and firmware running on the mobile device indicators for the model type and number of the mobile device and the like. Identifiers for the mobile device also include connection parameters such as the device IP address and connection type. Identifiers for the mobile device can also include an encryption key for securely communicating with the device. In one example the authentication and registration request includes the received application ID as well as the MDN the hardware ID MEID the device IP address the connection type the OS type the firmware the model number and optionally the encryption key of the mobile device .

Upon receiving the authentication and registration request from the pull client the carrier gateway proceeds to authenticate the mobile device to determine whether the mobile device is an authorized device. In particular the carrier gateway authenticates the mobile device using the one or more mobile device identifiers received in the authentication request. For example the carrier gateway may send an IP address received as part of the authentication request to an authentication server of the carrier network receive an identifier for an MDN that is associated with the IP address in the authentication server and verify that the identifier for the MDN received from the authentication server matches the MDN received in the authentication request. In addition the carrier gateway may send a received hardware ID to a billing server of the carrier network receive an identifier for an MDN that is associated with the hardware ID in the billing server and verify that the received identifier for the MDN matches the MDN received in the authentication request. The carrier gateway further validates the application having made the registration request using the application ID identifier received as part of the authentication request. For example the carrier gateway may send the application ID to an application validation server of the carrier network and receive a response indicating whether or not the application is approved for use with pull data functionality on the carrier network. The device authentication billing and application validation servers may run on the same platform and or be incorporated in the carrier gateway or one or more of those server functions may be implemented on other hardware platforms in communication with the gateway platform via a network.

Upon successful authentication of the mobile device the carrier gateway registers a session for the mobile device thereby creating a traffic channel. The registration includes generating and assigning a session ID identifier. The carrier gateway maintains a database of all connection sessions currently supported for all mobile devices . Upon registration of the session the carrier gateway stores in its database the session ID identifier and data associated with the session such as the one or more mobile device identifiers e.g. an MDN and or hardware ID received as part of the authentication and registration request. In general a traffic channel i.e. session ID is associated with a mobile device and the same session ID is used to send all communications from carrier gateway to pull client regardless of the application associated with the communication.

As discussed before the traffic channel established remains open for all applications associated with a particular timing group. Thus upon a single successful validation the connection is maintained with the same session ID. The pull client and carrier gateway can thus continue to use the same traffic channel that was established identified and registered. In particular the connection session is used without requiring re authentication of mobile device or re registration of a connection session with the carrier gateway . As a result pull client and carrier gateway can provide information to the respective applications with substantially less signaling.

The wireless mobile communication network might be implemented as a network conforming to the code division multiple access CDMA IS 95 standard the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 wireless IP network standard or the Evolution Data Optimized EVDO standard the Global System for Mobile GSM communication standard a time division multiple access TDMA standard SS7 based networks Ethernet IP based networks or other standards used for public mobile wireless communications. The mobile devices are capable of voice telephone communications through the network and for the pull data services the exemplary devices and are capable of data communications through the particular type of network and the users thereof typically will have subscribed to data service through the network . Alternatively or additionally the mobile devices may be capable of data communications through a wireless WI FI or other network.

The network allows users of the mobile devices such as and and other mobile devices or stations not shown to initiate and receive telephone calls to each other as well as through the public switched telephone network or PSTN and telephone stations connected to the PSTN. The network typically offers a variety of data services via the Internet such as downloads web browsing email etc. By way of example the drawing shows a laptop PC type user terminal as well as a server connected to the Internet and the data services for the mobile devices via the Internet may be with devices like those shown at and as well as with a variety of other types of devices or systems capable of data communications through various interconnected networks. The mobile devices and of users of the pull data service also can receive and execute applications written in various programming languages as discussed more later.

Mobile devices can take the form of portable handsets smart phones or personal digital assistants although they may be implemented in other form factors. Program applications including a pull client application to assist in the pull data service and or any user applications installed on the device or purchased via on line services can be configured to execute on many different types of mobile devices . For example a mobile device application can be written to execute on a binary runtime environment for mobile BREW based mobile device a Windows Mobile based mobile device Android I Phone Java Mobile or RIM based mobile device such as a BlackBerry or the like. Some of these types of devices can employ a multi tasking operating system.

The mobile communication network can be implemented by a number of interconnected networks. Hence the overall network may include a number of radio access networks RANs as well as regional ground networks interconnecting a number of RANs and a wide area network WAN interconnecting the regional ground networks to core network elements. A regional portion of the network such as that serving mobile devices can include one or more RANs and a regional circuit and or packet switched network and associated signaling network facilities.

Physical elements of a RAN operated by one of the mobile service providers or carriers include a number of base stations represented in the example by the base stations BSs . Although not separately shown such a base station can include a base transceiver system BTS which can communicate via an antennae system at the site of base station and over the airlink with one or more of the mobile devices when the mobile devices are within range. Each base station can include a BTS coupled to several antennae mounted on a radio tower within a coverage area often referred to as a cell. The BTS is the part of the radio network that sends and receives RF signals to from the mobile devices that are served by the base station .

The radio access networks can also include a traffic network represented generally by the cloud at which carries the user communications and data for the mobile devices between the base stations and other elements with or through which the mobile devices communicate. The network can also include other elements that support functionality other than device to device media transfer services such as messaging service messages and voice communications. Specific elements of the network for carrying the voice and data traffic and for controlling various aspects of the calls or sessions through the network are omitted here for simplicity. It will be understood that the various network elements can communicate with each other and other aspects of the mobile communications network and other networks e.g. the public switched telephone network PSTN and the Internet either directly or indirectly.

The carrier will also operate a number of systems that provide ancillary functions in support of the communications services and or application services provided through the network and those elements communicate with other nodes or elements of the network via one or more carrier gateways and or private IP type packet data networks sometimes referred to as an Intranet i.e. a private networks. Generally such systems are part of or connected for communication via the carrier gateways and or private network . Systems outside of the private network could serve the same functions as well. Examples of such systems in this case operated by the network service provider as part of the overall network which communicate through the carrier gateways and intranet type network include one or more application servers authentication servers billing servers application validation servers as well as other servers used for providing the pull data communication service.

A mobile device communicates over the air with a base station and through the traffic network for various voice and data communications e.g. through the Internet with a server and or through the carrier gateway and network with application servers . The mobile devices may also communicate over the air through a WI FI access point or other public network access point to communicate through the Internet and network with server carrier gateway and or application servers . In particular mobile device communicates with a carrier gateway such as carrier gateway which may include carrier gateway authentication server other billing or validation servers and or any of base stations base transceiver systems of the base stations traffic network data network and other network elements providing access to the carrier network. Servers such as and may provide any of a variety of common application or service functions in support of or in addition to an application program running on the mobile device . However for purposes of further discussion we will focus on functions thereof in support of the mobile pull data service. For a given service including the pull data service an application program within the mobile device may be considered as a client and the programming at or may be considered as the server application for the particular service. In the example discussed herein carrier gateway server includes carrier gateway while application server may be a standalone server. However in other examples carrier gateway and or application server may be implemented on other servers such as servers and or implemented on distributed server systems in communication with one or more of networks and .

To insure that the application service offered by server is available to only authorized devices users the provider of the application service also deploys an authentication server . The authentication server could be a separate physical server as shown or authentication server could be implemented as another program module running on the same hardware platform as the gateway server or the application server . Essentially when the gateway server server in our example receives a service request authentication and registration request or other request from an application or pull client on a mobile device the gateway server provides appropriate information to the authentication server to allow the authentication server to authenticate the mobile device as outlined herein. Upon successful authentication the authentication server informs the gateway server which in turn provides access to the service via data communication through the various communication elements e.g. and of the network . A similar authentication function may be provided for data pull services offered via the server either by the authentication server if there is an appropriate arrangement between the carrier and the operator of server by a program on the server or via a separate authentication server not shown connected to the Internet .

To provide pull data communication services in accordance with the descriptions herein gateway server or another server or multi server system implementing the functionality of carrier gateway includes one or more storage devices. The storage devices can be located within server or located outside of server and communicatively connected with server . The storage devices store configuration and link data for use by the carrier gateway such as databases storing data on mobile devices authorized to connect to the carrier gateway or to the carrier network applications authorized to connect to the carrier gateway or to the carrier network and or connection sessions supported by the carrier gateway with one or more mobile devices. The pull server databases may include separate databases for each type of data. In one example a first application database stores information on all applications authorized for pull data services on the network including a list of the application IDs of applications authorized for pull data functionality. A second device information database stores information on all mobile devices authorized for use on the network and includes a record for each authorized device storing the device identifiers connection identifiers and any other identifiers or information associated with the device. A third connection information database stores information an all connection sessions supported by the carrier gateway and includes a record for each connection session storing the session ID application ID device identifiers and other identifiers or information associated with the connection session. The databases are each stored on one server or several distributed servers of the network.

As shown by the above discussion functions relating to the pull data service may be implemented on mobile devices computers and servers connected for data communication via the components of a packet data network as shown in . Although special purpose equipment may be used such devices also may be implemented using one or more hardware platforms intended to represent a general class of data processing device commonly used to run client and server programming so as to implement the pull client and pull server functionality discussed above albeit with an appropriate network link and connection capabilities for data communication.

A general purpose computer configured as a server for example includes a data communication interface for packet data communication. The server computer also includes a central processing unit CPU in the form of one or more processors for executing program instructions. The server platform typically includes an internal communication bus program storage and data storage for various data files to be processed and or communicated by the server although the server often receives programming and data via network communications. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such servers are conventional in nature. Of course the server functions may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms to distribute the processing load. In this case such a platform would run application server programming for example to receive requests from mobile client applications and send requested content so as to function as one of the servers in .

A user terminal such as a general purpose personal computer or a mobile device typically comprises a central processor or other processing device an internal communication bus various types of memory or storage media RAM ROM EEPROM cache memory disk or flash drives for mass storage etc. for code and data storage and one or more network or communication interfaces or ports for communication purposes. The software functionalities involve programming including executable code as well as associated stored data e.g. files used for the user applications and or pull client application. The software code is executable by the mobile device that functions as the pull client. In operation the code is stored within the mobile device. At other times however the software may be stored at other locations and or transported for loading into the appropriate mobile device system. Execution of such code by a processor of the mobile device enables the mobile device to implement the methodology for pull data services during a single traffic channel in essentially the manner performed in the implementations discussed and illustrated herein.

Hence aspects of the methods of pull data service outlined above may be embodied in programming. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of non transitory machine readable medium.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

Unless otherwise stated all measurements values ratings positions magnitudes sizes and other specifications that are set forth in this specification including in the claims that follow are approximate not exact. They are intended to have a reasonable range that is consistent with the functions to which they relate and with what is customary in the art to which they pertain.

The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended and should be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents. Notwithstanding none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections 101 102 or 103 of the Patent Act nor should they be interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby disclaimed.

Except as stated immediately above nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by a or an does not without further constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

The description above has used a large number of acronyms to refer to various services messages and system components. Although generally known use of several of these acronyms is not strictly standardized in the art. For the convenience of the reader the following list correlates terms to acronyms as used by way of example in the detailed description above.

