---

title: System and method of facilitating oilfield operations utilizing auditory information
abstract: The invention provides a system and method for facilitating oilfield operations utilizing auditory data. In one embodiment, the present invention generates one or more auditory mapping structures whereby oilfield data may be mapped to sounds. The present invention provides at least one computer generated selection tool through which the user may select one or more portions of displayed oilfield data for auditory enhancement. Once the user has indicated an area of interest using the selection tool, the present invention may identify the oilfield data displayed within the outlined area of interest, identify auditory data associated with the displayed oilfield data utilizing one or more auditory mapping structures, and emit at least a portion of the identified auditory data to enhance the user's understanding of the displayed oilfield data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08994549&OS=08994549&RS=08994549
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 08994549
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120111
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 437 037 filed Jan. 28 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to oilfield operations and more particularly to systems and methods directed to the use of auditory information in conjunction with oilfield exploration and production activities.

Oilfield operations generate a great deal of electronic data. Such data may be used to access oilfield conditions and make decisions concerning future oilfield operations such as well planning well targeting well completions production rates and other operations and or operating parameters. Often this information is used to determine when and or where to drill new wells re complete existing wells or alter wellbore production characteristics.

Oilfield data may be collected using sensors positioned about the oilfield. For example sensors on the surface may monitor seismic exploration activities sensors in the drilling equipment may monitor drilling conditions sensors in the wellbore may monitor fluid composition sensors located along the flow path may monitor flow rates and sensors at the processing facility may monitor fluids collected.

Computer modeling and simulation of oilfield data is a vital component of oil and gas exploration. Such systems typically conduct some form of computational processing upon acquired oilfield data and then export the processed data to one or more data visualization application s for review by authorized personnel. Such systems may also use a color mapping structure to generate graphic visualizations of acquired data in order to assist users in interpreting and analyzing the acquired data.

Unfortunately most modern graphical applications do not use auditory information to convey information regarding acquired oilfield data to the user in a meaningful way. Such applications relegate auditory information to a secondary role e.g. alerts or alarms to communicate errors.

As such there remains a need for a system and method capable of enhancing the analysis of oilfield data utilizing auditory information.

Accordingly the present invention provides a system and method for facilitating oilfield operations utilizing auditory data. The present invention provides one or more sound mapping structures for oilfield data relating to one or more oilfield operations. In one embodiment oilfield data may include a plurality of oilfield data types that may be of interest to the user in relation to one or more oilfield operations.

In one embodiment the present invention generates one or more auditory mapping structures whereby specific oilfield data are mapped or matched to one or more specific sounds or groups of sounds. The auditory mapping structure may be saved to the storage device and linked to at least one data visualization application capable of accessing and displaying acquired oilfield using one or more graphic user interfaces.

The present invention provides at least one computer generated selection tool through which the user may select one or more portions of displayed oilfield data for auditory enhancement. In one embodiment the selection tool comprises a substantially rectangular outline for 2D displays or a substantially cubic outline for 3D and 4D displays superimposed upon or embedded into displayed oilfield data. In one embodiment the selection tool may be resized and moved in any direction by the user using a mouse keyboard or other desired input device.

Once the user has indicated an area of interest using the selection tool the present invention may identify the oilfield data displayed within the outlined area of interest identify auditory data associated with the displayed oilfield data utilizing one or more auditory mapping structures and emit at least a portion of the identified auditory data for the user to listen to.

In one embodiment the present invention may apply pitch frequency and or timbre variations to each sound as it relates to each oilfield data type during the mapping process. This feature of the present invention allows the system to convey oilfield data distinctions to the user in a simple and effective manner. The present invention may utilize a direct inverse relationship and or a complimentary supplementary relationship between the displayed oilfield data and the emitted sound s .

In one embodiment the present invention may provide at least one settings interface through which the user may enter or amend system settings. The present invention may also provide customization options whereby the user may amend the default auditory mapping structure by importing custom sounds to be used in conjunction with oilfield data.

In one embodiment the present invention may be used to enhance the analysis of oilfield data directed to the fluid flow characteristics of a subterranean formation. In one embodiment the present invention utilizes auditory data to assist the user in understanding actual and or predicted fluid flow data displayed by the data visualization application.

In the following description numerous details are set forth to provide an understanding of the present invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these details and that numerous variations or modifications from the described embodiments may be possible.

The present invention is herein described as a method of facilitating oilfield operations using auditory data as a computer readable storage medium for facilitating oilfield operations using auditory data and as an oilfield analysis system.

By way of background FIGS. . . illustrate simplified schematic views of oilfield having subterranean formation containing reservoir therein in accordance with implementations of various technologies and techniques described herein.

A circulating system may be used for storing controlling or filtering the drilling mud. The drilling tools are advanced into subterranean formations to reach reservoir . Each well may target one or more reservoirs. The drilling tools may be adapted for measuring downhole properties using logging while drilling tools. The logging while drilling tools may also be adapted for taking core sample .

Computer facilities may be positioned at various locations about the oilfield e.g. the surface unit and or at remote locations. Surface unit may be used to communicate with the drilling tools and or offsite operations as well as with other surface or downhole sensors. Surface unit is capable of communicating with the drilling tools to send commands to the drilling tools and to receive data therefrom. Surface unit may also collect data generated during the drilling operation and produces data output which may then be stored or transmitted.

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about oilfield to collect data relating to various oilfield operations as described previously. As shown sensor S may be positioned in one or more locations in the drilling tools and or at rig to measure drilling parameters such as weight on bit torque on bit pressures temperatures flow rates compositions rotary speed and or other parameters of the field operation. Sensors S may also be positioned in one or more locations in the circulating system.

Drilling tools . may include a bottom hole assembly BHA not shown near the drill bit e.g. within several drill collar lengths from the drill bit . The bottom hole assembly may include capabilities for measuring processing and storing information as well as communicating with the surface unit. The bottom hole assembly further may further include drill collars for performing various other measurement functions.

The data gathered by sensors S may be collected by the surface unit and or other data collection sources for analysis or other processing. The data collected by sensors S may be used alone or in combination with other data. The data may be collected in one or more databases and or transmitted on or offsite. The data may be historical data real time data or combinations thereof. The real time data may be used in real time or stored for later use. The data may also be combined with historical data or other inputs for further analysis. The data may be stored in separate databases or combined into a single database.

Surface unit may include transceiver to allow communications between surface unit and various portions of the oilfield or other locations. The surface unit may also be provided with one or more controllers not shown for actuating mechanisms at the oilfield. The surface unit may then send command signals to the oilfield in response to data received.

The surface unit may receive commands via transceiver or may itself execute commands to the controller. A processor may be provided to analyze the data locally or remotely make the decisions and or actuate the controller. In this manner the oilfield may be selectively adjusted based on the data collected. This technique may be used to optimize portions of the field operation such as controlling drilling weight on bit pump rates or other parameters. These adjustments may be made automatically based on computer protocol and or manually by an operator. In some cases well plans may be adjusted to select optimum operating conditions or to avoid problems.

Wireline tool . may be operatively connected to for example geophones and a computer . of a seismic truck . of . Wireline tool . may also provide data to surface unit . Surface unit may collect data generated during the wireline operation and may produce data output that may be stored or transmitted. Wireline tool . may be positioned at various depths in the wellbore to provide information relating to the subterranean formation .

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about oilfield to collect data relating to various field operations as described previously. As shown sensor S is positioned in wireline tool . to measure downhole parameters which relate to for example porosity permeability fluid composition and or other parameters of the oilfield operation.

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about oilfield to collect data relating to various field operations as described previously. As shown the sensor S may be positioned in production tool . or associated equipment such as Christmas tree gathering network surface facility and or the production facility to measure fluid parameters such as fluid composition flow rates pressures temperatures and or other parameters of the production operation.

Production may also include injection wells for added recovery. One or more gathering facilities may be operatively connected to one or more of the wellsites for selectively collecting downhole fluids from the wellsite s .

While FIGS. . . illustrate tools used to measure data relating to an oilfield it will be appreciated that the tools may be used in connection with non oilfield operations such as gas fields mines aquifers storage or other subterranean facilities. Also while certain data acquisition tools are depicted it will be appreciated that various measurement tools capable of sensing parameters such as seismic two way travel time density resistivity production rate etc. of the subterranean formation and or its geological formations may be used. Various sensors S may be located at various positions along the wellbore and or the monitoring tools to collect and or monitor the desired data. Other sources of data may also be provided from offsite locations.

FIGS. . . are example graphical depictions of data collected by the tools of FIGS. . .. depicts a seismic trace of the subterranean formation of taken by survey tool . The seismic trace measures a two way response over a period of time. depicts a core sample taken by the drilling tool . . The core test typically provides a graph of the density resistivity or other physical property of the core sample over the length of the core. Tests for density and viscosity are often performed on the fluids in the core at varying pressures and temperatures. depicts a well log of the subterranean formation of taken by the wireline tool . . The wireline log typically provides a resistivity measurement of the formation at various depths. depicts a production decline curve of fluid flowing through the subterranean formation of taken by the production tool . . The production decline curve typically provides the production rate Q as a function of time t.

The respective graphs of FIGS. . . contain static measurements that describe the physical characteristics of the formation. These measurements may be compared to determine the accuracy of the measurements and or for checking for errors. In this manner the plots of each of the respective measurements may be aligned and scaled for comparison and verification of the properties.

Data plots are examples of static data plots that may be generated by the data acquisition tools respectively. Static data plot is a seismic two way response time and may be the same as the seismic trace of . Static plot is core sample data measured from a core sample of the formation similar to the core sample of . Static data plot is a logging trace similar to the well log of . Data plot is a dynamic data plot of the fluid flow rate over time similar to the graph of . Other data may also be collected such as historical data user inputs economic information other measurement data and other parameters of interest.

The subterranean formation has a plurality of geological structures . As shown the formation has a sandstone layer a limestone layer a shale layer and a sand layer . A fault line extends through the formation. The static data acquisition tools are preferably adapted to measure the formation and detect the characteristics of the geological structures of the formation.

While a specific subterranean formation with specific geological structures is depicted it will be appreciated that the formation may contain a variety of geological structures. Fluid may also be present in various portions of the formation. Each of the measurement devices may be used to measure properties of the formation and or its underlying structures in order to generate oilfield data. While each acquisition tool is shown as being in specific locations along the formation it will be appreciated that one or more types of measurement may be taken at one or more location across one or more oilfields or other locations for comparison and or analysis.

The data collected from various sources such as the data acquisition tools of may then be evaluated using one or more data visualization applications. Typically seismic data displayed in the static data plot from the data acquisition tool is used by a geophysicist to determine characteristics of the subterranean formation . Core data shown in static plot and or log data from the well log is typically used by a geologist to determine various characteristics of the geological structures of the subterranean formation . Production data from the production graph is typically used by the reservoir engineer to determine fluid flow reservoir characteristics.

Each wellsite has equipment that forms a wellbore into the earth. The wellbores extend through subterranean formations including reservoirs . These reservoirs contain fluids such as hydrocarbons. The wellsites draw fluid from the reservoirs and pass them to the processing facilities via surface networks . The surface networks have tubing and control mechanisms for controlling the flow of fluids from the wellsite to the processing facility .

Referring to the present invention provides a system method and computer readable medium for facilitating oilfield operations utilizing auditory data. In order to facilitate the efficient analysis of oilfield data the present invention provides one or more libraries of auditory data capable of complimenting and or supplementing the visualization of oilfield data during various aspects of an oilfield operation.

In one embodiment the present invention utilizes one or more computer databases for storing auditory data and acquired oilfield data relating to one or more oilfield operations . In one embodiment oilfield data may include a plurality of oilfield data types D that may be of interest to the user in relation to one or more oilfield operations.

In one embodiment the present invention generates one or more auditory mapping structures whereby specific oilfield data are mapped or matched to one or more specific sounds or groups of sounds contained within the stored auditory data as illustrated by Box . The auditory mapping structure may be saved to the storage device and linked to at least one data visualization application capable of accessing and displaying acquired oilfield data upon one or more graphic user interfaces coupled to the storage device .

The auditory mapping structure s generated by the present invention may be compatible with a plurality of data visualization applications. In one embodiment the auditory mapping structure may be arranged according to the type of oilfield data displayed by the data visualization application. For example a first mapping structure may be generated for use with data visualization applications designed to display seismic data while a second mapping structure may be generated for use with data visualization applications designed to display reservoir properties.

Further in one embodiment individual sounds or group of sounds may be matched to oilfield data types and or subsets of same such as seismic data electromagnetic data geological data resistivity data regional data and gravitational data. Regional data for example may include oilfield data accumulated for a given geographic region over a period of time. Gravitational data may include oilfield data and or maps drawn to measurements concerning the physical properties of the formation including information drawn to gravitational anomalies such as salt domes faults etc.

In one embodiment the present invention may provide a default auditory mapping structure based upon 1 the types of oilfield data stored in the database and or 2 the types of oilfield data presented by one or more data visualization applications . In one embodiment the present invention may be utilized in conjunction with a stand alone oilfield data visualization application such as the Petrel or Visage systems offered by Schlumberger or equipped with its own proprietary data visualization package.

It should be understood that the present invention may be utilized in conjunction with any suitable visualization package and that the novel use of complimentary and or supplementary auditory information described herein is not limited to use with the example data types or example data visualization packages. Further the invention may be used at any phase of an oilfield operation including but not limited to during the interpretation of seismic data during modeling of formational characteristics or reservoir properties including surface modeling and or during operational monitoring and analysis activities.

In one embodiment oilfield data and auditory data may be presented to the user via a computer system having a graphic user interface and at least one speaker arrangement. In one embodiment the oilfield data may be displayed to the user using a two three or four dimensional arrangement. In one embodiment a two dimensional arrangement may include x and y axis components a three dimensional arrangement may include x y and z components and a four dimensional arrangement may include x y z components along with a time component.

The present invention provides at least one computer generated selection tool through which the user may select one or more portions of displayed oilfield data for auditory enhancement. In one embodiment the selection tool comprises a substantially rectangular outline for 2D displays or a substantially cubic outline for 3D and 4D displays superimposed upon or embedded into displayed oilfield data.

Once the user has indicated an area of interest using the selection tool the present invention may identify the oilfield data displayed within the outlined area of interest identify auditory data associated with the displayed oilfield data utilizing one or more auditory mapping structures and emit at least a portion of the identified auditory data for the user to listen to as illustrated by Boxes and of .

In one embodiment a sound may be generated for the oilfield data included within the selection tool outline. The user may also move the selection tool around such that he or she will hear sounds produced by the movement of the selection tool. In this embodiment two types of sounds may be produced 1 a peak sound may be generated when the user starts the movement of the selection tool which is composed by the sound of the new selection tool positioning and 2 a fading out sound after the selection tool has started moving in which more oilfield data to sound mappings can be applied for example if the selection tool has currently a larger size than the unitary size of the oilfield data itself sounds may be sequentially generated for the subparts of the current selection tool size in a cascading manner in order to quickly give the user a sense of all data located within selection tool outline .

To better understand the reservoir the user may be interested in the dynamic properties of the reservoir such as pressure and saturation of fluids through time as well as static properties such as permeability. In 4D workflows it may be especially important to compare fluid saturations with seismic data to see if the predicted fluid saturations match the seismic response. By using a selection tool to navigate in the reservoir model the user is able to experience more properties at the same time visualizing one of them while hearing another. This is an example of a complimentary use of auditory data contemplated in one embodiment of the present invention. For example in a 4D workflow a sound being played for a selected area would indicate how wrong or correct the predicted fluid saturation is. In general these and several other properties such as porosity pressure and temperature can be combined as per users needs in order to enhance the user s understanding of the oilfield data under analysis.

In one embodiment the selection tool may include interactive features such as a snap to grid feature wherein the outer limits of the selection tool automatically conform to the grid utilized by the data visualization application as illustrated by . The selection tool may further be resized and or moved about the displayed reservoir data as indicated by arrows A using a mouse keyboard or other desired input device.

Further multiple selection tools or cubes in this example may be utilized such that the user may select multiple areas of interest if desired.

In one embodiment the selection tool may also provide a conforming feature wherein the outer limits of the selection tool may conform to features of the displayed oilfield data such as along seismic trace lines along well paths etc. In one embodiment the conforming feature may also be utilized to conform to oilfield data trends such as areas of displayed data trending from lower to higher permeability values etc.

The present invention may apply one or more sound properties to the mapping structure during the auditory mapping process as illustrated by Box A of . In one embodiment the present invention may apply pitch frequency and or timbre variations to each sound as it relates to oilfield data during the mapping process. This feature of the present invention allows the system to convey oilfield data distinctions to the user in a simple and effective manner.

In this example pitch may represent the perceived fundamental frequency of a sound as well as the musical scale of octaves such that the higher the octave the higher the pitch. In this example frequency may represent the number of a repeating event per unit time. The lower the frequency the thicker the sound perception in the human ear. In this example timbre may represent the quality of sound that distinguishes different types of voices and or musical instruments. For example timbre is what humans use to distinguish the saxophone from the trumpet in a jazz group even if both instruments are playing notes at the same pitch and frequency.

In one embodiment timbre variations may be used to help the user distinguish between sounds having the same frequency by recognizing the difference between sound sources instruments . For example one can readily distinguish a piano sound from a violin sound even if the two sounds have the same pitch and frequency. In this example a piano timbre could be utilized to denote a first oilfield property and a violin timbre would be associated to another oilfield property. This feature of the present invention allows multiple sets of oilfield data to be differentiated even if each set of oilfield data is mapped to the same frequency and pitch.

The present invention may also utilize a direct or inverse relationship between the displayed oilfield data and the emitted sound s as illustrated by Box B of . In one embodiment the present invention may utilize a direct or inverse mapping structure whereby pitch frequency and timbre variations are used to indicate a direct or inverse relationship to the oilfield data. For example a direct mapping structure may utilize a high pitched sound to indicate 1 a high concentration of oilfield data or a high concentration of a particular type of oilfield data 2 a high density of oilfield data or data types 3 a large number or large volume of data or data types and or 4 the fullness of the oilfield data or data types. In one embodiment a direct mapping approach may be utilized in situations where data values must be identified.

In one embodiment an inverse mapping structure applies an opposite relationship between the oilfield data and the sound presented to the user. For example an inverse mapping structure may utilize a high pitched sound to indicate 1 a low concentration of oilfield data or a low concentration of a particular type of oilfield data 2 a low density of oilfield data or data types 3 a small number or small volume of data or data types and or 4 the lack of fullness of the oilfield data or data types within the selected area.

With respect to frequency a direct mapping structure may utilize a high frequency sound to indicate oilfield data or a particular type of oilfield data having high or large absolute values while a low frequency sound may be used to indicate oilfield data or data types as having low or small absolute values. In one embodiment an inverse mapping structure applies an opposite relationship with respect to frequency. For example an inverse mapping structure may utilize a high frequency sound to indicate oilfield data or a particular type of oilfield data having a lower population density or as being relatively empty while a low frequency sound may be used to indicate oilfield data or data types as having a relatively full or high population density.

For a direct mapping arrangement the higher or lower the property the higher or lower the observable characteristic. For example a sound with high pitch may be used to denote a high concentration of certain data while a low pitch may be used to denote a low concentration of certain data. An inverse mapping arrangement may be the opposite of a direct one. For example higher sound frequency may be used to denote a lower population density. A thinner timbre may be used to denote an area of oilfield data that may be relatively empty of data values while a thicker timbre may be used to denote an area that is relatively full of oilfield data.

The present invention may also utilize a complimentary or supplementary relationship between the displayed oilfield data and the emitted sound s as illustrated by Box C of . For example in a complimentary relationship the user would hear sounds associated with oilfield data being displayed upon the graphic user interface. This feature of the present invention improves the perception capacity and understanding of the user by providing both visual and auditory information concerning the selected oilfield data.

In a supplementary relationship the user would hear sounds that are not associated with the oilfield data being displayed upon the graphic user interface. This feature of the present invention allows the user to correlate different data types while also avoiding sensory overload caused by too much information.

In one embodiment the present invention may provide at least one settings interface through which the user may enter or amend system settings as illustrated by Box of . In one embodiment the setting interface of the present invention may include a global settings screen through which the user may select a default profile saved profile or create a new profile as illustrated by .

In one embodiment the default profile provided by the present invention may utilize settings that a majority of users may find to be appropriate. Default settings may vary depending on the data visualization package being used and the type of oilfield data being displayed i.e. seismic data reservoir data etc.

The present invention may also provide customization options whereby the user may amend the default auditory mapping structure by importing custom sounds to be used in conjunction with oilfield data. In one embodiment this may be accomplished using a custom sounds screen not shown where the user may replace default sounds with custom sounds for any given oilfield data type. This feature of the present invention may also be used to allow the user to enter custom oilfield data types so that highly trained users may tailor the system to their specifications using custom oilfield data types and or custom sounds.

In one embodiment the present invention may be applied to enhancing the analysis of oilfield data as it pertains to the actual or predicted flow of fluid through one or more formations. In this example the data visualization package may be adapted to display fluid flow data and the present invention may provide sounds for assisting the user with understanding the actual or predicted fluid flow being displayed by the data visualization application.

In one embodiment the present invention may provide customized fluid flow sounds for use in denoting fluid characteristics fluid motion vortex characterization and or energy dissipation. Further customized sound variations may be utilized to assist the user in assessing the fluid flow characteristics of the displayed data. For example frequency changes may be utilized to denote density changes the higher frequency the denser the material timbre may be used to represent temperature tempo may be used to represent the speed of injection activities stereo balance surround sound or three dimensional sound arrangements may be utilized to indicate the direction of fluid flow rapid change in pitch may be used to represent voracity and the pitch span may be used to represent vortex size.

Referring to a computer system into which implementations of various technologies and techniques described herein may be implemented. In one implementation computer system may be a conventional desktop or a server computer but it should be noted that other computer system configurations may be used.

The computer system may include a central processing unit CPU a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the CPU . Although only one CPU is illustrated in it should be understood that in some implementations the computer system may include more than one CPU. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus. The system memory may include a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help transfer information between elements within the computer system such as during start up may be stored in the ROM .

The computer system may further include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk drive the magnetic disk drive and the optical disk drive may be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media may provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer system.

Although the computer system is described herein as having a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the computer system may also include other types of computer readable media that may be accessed by a computer. For example such computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media may further include RAM ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer system.

Communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs program data and a database system . The operating system may be any suitable operating system that may control the operation of a networked personal or server computer such as Windows 7 Mac OS X Unix variants e.g. Linux and BSD and the like. In one implementation the data visualization applications referred to herein may be stored as application programs in .

A user may enter commands and information into the computer system through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device . Other input devices may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices may be connected to the CPU through a serial port interface coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device may also be connected to system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor the computer system may further include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printers.

Further the computer system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers . The logical connections may be any connection that is commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet such as local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . The remote computers may each include application programs similar to that as described above.

When using a LAN networking environment the computer system may be connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer system may include a modem wireless router or other means for establishing communication over a wide area network such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer system or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

It should be understood that the various technologies described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware software or a combination of both. Thus various technologies or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various technologies.

In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various technologies described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Although the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments this description is not meant to be construed in a limited sense. Various modifications of the disclosed embodiments as well as alternative embodiments of the invention will become apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reference to the description of the invention. It is therefore contemplated that the appended claims will cover such modifications that fall within the scope of the invention.

