---

title: Suture anchoring assemblies and methods of use
abstract: A suture anchor assembly and methods of use will now are disclosed for the repair of human or animal tissue defects. The suture anchor assembly is capable of being inserted into a tissue or bone while also being able to create an expanded profile when subjected to a retrograde force. This expanded profile anchors the assembly into the tissue or bone by a changing of position of elements of the assembly relative to other assembly elements. Embodiments of the suture anchor assembly and methods are capable of precisely positioning assembly elements in the tissue or bone to effectively repair the defects. Some embodiments of the suture anchor assembly may include pliable buttons. And some embodiments of the suture anchor assembly may also include buttons made of bioabsorbable or resorbable materials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09445804&OS=09445804&RS=09445804
owner: THE LONNIE AND SHANNON PAULOS TRUST (AS AMENDED AND RESTATED)
number: 09445804
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120226
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 241 466 filed Sep. 23 2011 which is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 245 714 filed Oct. 4 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 052 719 issued Nov. 8 2011 which claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 041 579 filed Apr. 1 2008 the entire contents of all referenced applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to a systems and methods for securing sutures and other materials during surgical procedures. More particularly embodiments of the present invention relate to systems and methods for suture fixation and methods designed for the placement of surgical anchors for the attachment of tissues associated with orthopedic surgeries. Embodiments of the present invention also relate to systems and methods designed to reduce or bring into close approximation pieces of torn or damaged soft tissue to facilitate tissue repair and healing.

Open and arthroscopic meniscal repair has become a mainstay for the orthopedic surgeon. In the 1960s and 70s partial or total mastectomy was the norm. As arthroscopy and arthroscopic skills advanced arthroscopic combined with open or all arthroscopic meniscal repair became the standard of care. Multiple studies have demonstrated the ability of the meniscus to heal particularly in the vascular zone which is in the first 3 mm of its capsular attachment. With advancement of arthroscopic meniscal repair tools more and varying types of meniscal tears have been successfully repaired.

The present weaknesses of meniscal repair systems are several. First the gold standard has been the inside out meniscal repair system. With this method cannulae are passed through skin portals and use long needles with sutures attached that are passed through the cannulae through the knee joint across the defect and out of the knee to be retrieved through an open incision and then tied against the deep capsular structures away from neurovascular structures. This technique allows for precise placement of sutures in the meniscus.

One of the problems associated with these types of procedures is the time and number of intubations needed to perform the various procedures endoscipically. In addition this technique does not allow for precise placement of sutures thru the capsule and therefore there is potential for neurovascular injury.

The outside in techniques involve passing sutures through needles at the joint line across the tear and then tying one end of the sutures together and tying the other ends of the sutures directly onto the capsule. Alternative techniques allow the sutures to be passed across the defect and tying the suture back on itself on the capsule. One advantage to this technique is that there is a low risk of neurovascular injury since needles are passed thru precise thru the capsule. Potential disadvantages of the outside in technique is that suture placement thru the meniscus may not be precise as well as difficulty in reducing the defect and opposing the edges while passing the sutures.

In the past 15 years all inside devices have been developed for meniscal repair. These devices were developed in order to obviate the need for posterior corner incisions medial or lateral and to reduce the risk of neurovascular damage as a result of the surgery. These devices are deployed through the arthroscopic portals and either oppose the meniscal fragments and or push a pre tied knot onto the body of the meniscus. The present devices have created articular lesions due to protrusion as well as partially deployed devices that are proud.

Systems and methods such as that disclosed in U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2006 0178680 Nelson et. al. illustrate some embodiments of an all inside solution.

The all inside systems are limited by how accurate they are when repairing a meniscus and thus have never enjoyed as good a success rates as the inside out devices referenced above. Because the all inside devices are so large it is virtually impossible to accurately pass a suture and or meniscal device into the under surface of the meniscus thus the majority of the devices are passed on the top surface in an attempt to pinch the lower inferior portions together. This technique in actuality leaves the tear distracted on its inferior surface. Although many devices have been fabricated for all inside meniscal repairs which can be done endoscopically without the open skin incision the incidence of re tear among patients who have undergone the procedure is higher over time compared with that for patients who were given inside out permanent sutures

There is a benefit therefore from providing a suture anchor assembly and methods of use that allow accurate placement of the suture and suture anchor. There is also a benefit from providing assemblies and methods that minimize the number of incisions required for use.

There are numerous bone anchors with sutures attached that allow tissues to be approximated to specific bone attachment sites. Most systems deploy a three step system wherein the hole is drilled anchor placed and then the anchor holder removed and the anchor set by pulling on sutures. If the bone is of questionable quality the anchor may only temporarily hold and loosen later through the rehabilitation phases. Also if the first step of drilling a hole can be eliminated then it would be expected that the anchor would hold more securely particularly in porous bone.

Systems such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2007 0032821 Chao et. al. and U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2006 0217762 Maahs et. al. show anchor systems that expand into an opening however they are not structured to open into and secure an element in bone.

Other systems rely on an anchor to flip based on a second suture being placed at the end opposite the attached suture. There are also systems that anchor by means of screwing in or anchoring by means of flexible hooks.

There is a therefore a benefit from providing a suture anchor assembly and method of use that can be easily inserted and deployed through expansion.

The suture anchor assembly is an assembly that is capable of being inserted into a tissue or bone in a forward direction while also being able to create an expanded profile when subjected to a retrograde or opposite direction force. This expanded profile generally anchors and secures the assembly into the tissue or bone by a changing of position of elements of the assembly relative to other assembly elements. This changing of position creates an expanded profile of the assembly in the tissue which helps to frictionally engage the tissue and anchor the assembly. Embodiments of the assembly and methods of the present invention provide for the accurately positioning and of anchoring of elements to fix sutures in tissue or bone. In some embodiments the suture anchor assembly has pliable elements and elements of the assembly are secured into the tissue by a deformation of assembly elements.

In an example embodiment the suture anchor assembly comprises a first body portion a second body portion having a force connector and a means to connect the first body portion and the second body portion whereby a retrograde force on the force connector causes the first body portion to engage a tissue and secure the suture anchor assembly in the tissue.

In an example embodiment the suture anchor assembly includes the first and second body portions being planar shaped and the suture anchor assembly further includes a cannula having a slot shaped hollow portion to receive the planar body portions whereby the position of the first and second body portions can be controlled by the position of the slot shaped hollow portion.

In an example embodiment the suture anchor assembly further comprises a needle a means of connecting the needle to the first body portion and a retrograde force element capable of connecting to the second body portion force connector.

In an example embodiment the suture anchor assembly further includes the first body portion being elongated the means to connect the first body portion and the second body portion comprises a connector connecting a first connection point on the first body portion and a second connection point on the second body portion and the location of the force connector relative to the first body portion and the first connection point causes the first body portion to pivot relative to the second body portion when a retrograde force is applied to the force connector.

In an example embodiment the suture anchor assembly further includes the first body portion being capable of compressing to form a front end and a expansion end and the expansion end of the first body portion being biased to expand whereby a retrograde force on the force connector cause the expansion end to expand and engage the tissue and secure the suture anchor assembly in the tissue.

In an example embodiment the suture anchor assembly includes the first body portion being capable of being compressed to form a front end and a expansion end the means to connect the first body portion comprising a collar on the first body portion to receive the second body portion and the expansion end of the first body portion being biased to expand whereby a retrograde force on the force connector forces the second body portion to expand the first body portion whereby the expansion end engages the tissue and secures the suture anchor assembly in the tissue.

In an example embodiment the suture anchor assembly comprises an impactor an expandable first body portion having a distal collar and a proximal collar and a second body portion having a force connector whereby a retrograde force on the force connector forces the second body portion against the distal collar and a forward force on the impactor transfers the forward force to the proximal collar whereby the first body portion expands to secure the suture anchor assembly in the tissue.

In an example embodiment the suture anchor assembly further includes a delivery rod and a means to connect the delivery rod to the force connector whereby a force applied to the delivery rod is transferred to the second body portion.

In an example embodiment the suture anchor assembly further includes a means to retain the expansion of the first body portion to secure the suture anchor assembly in the tissue.

In an example embodiment the suture anchor assembly comprises a pliable button with a first body portion and a second body portion whereby a retrograde force on a force connector causes the pliable button to deform and engage a tissue and secure the pliable button in the tissue.

In some embodiments the button is deformed by a forward force on the button which causes the button to deform and engage the tissue and secure the button in the tissue.

In an example embodiment a method of tissue repair comprises providing a suture anchor assembly having a retrograde suture inserting the suture anchor assembly into a tissue applying a retrograde force on the retrograde force element to cause the suture anchor assembly to engage the tissue and secure the suture anchor assembly in the tissue and anchoring the retrograde force element to secure the suture anchor assembly.

In an example embodiment the step of inserting a suture anchor assembly further includes inserting a needle connected to the suture anchor assembly and passing the needle and suture anchor assembly through the tissue.

In an example embodiment the suture anchor assembly further includes a first body portion connected to a second body portion connected to the retrograde suture and the step of applying a retrograde force on the retrograde force element further includes causing the first body portion to engage the tissue.

In an example embodiment the suture anchor assembly is planar and further comprises a cannula having a slot shaped hollow portion to receive the planar suture anchor assembly and the step of inserting the suture anchor assembly further includes positioning the insertion of the planar anchor assembly by the position of the slot shaped hollow portion.

In an example embodiment the method of tissue repair further includes repeating the step of inserting the suture anchor assembly and applying the retrograde force with at least one second suture anchor assembly having a second retrograde suture and the step of anchoring the retrograde force element further comprises anchoring the retrograde force element to the second retrograde force element to secure the suture anchor assemblies.

In an example embodiment the step of inserting a needle includes inserting the needle through a cannula.

In an example embodiment the first body portion is elongated and the step of applying a retrograde force to the retrograde force element causes the elongated first body portion to pivot relative to the second body portion and engage the tissue.

In an example embodiment the first body portion is capable of being compressed to form a front end and an expansion end the expansion end of the first body portion expands when not compressed and the step of applying a retrograde force on the retrograde force element includes causing the expansion end to expand and engage the tissue.

In an example embodiment the first body portion is capable of being compressed to form a front end and a expansion end the first body portion is connected to the second body portion by a collar on the to receive the second body portion the expansion end of the first body portion expands when not compressed and the step of applying a retrograde force on the retrograde force element includes forcing the second body portion to expand the first body portion where the expansion end expands and engages the tissue.

In an example embodiment a method of anchoring a suture into a tissue comprises providing a suture anchor assembly with an expandable first body portion a second body portion and a force connector connected to the second body portion inserting the expandable first body portion and second body portion of a suture anchor assembly into a tissue expanding the first body portion of the suture anchor assembly by applying a retrograde force to the force connector to secure the suture anchor assembly in the tissue and attaching a suture to the suture anchor assembly.

In an example embodiment the step of inserting the second body portion further includes applying a first forward force on a sharpened distal end of the second body portion and the step of expanding the first body portion further includes applying the retrograde force to a distal end of the first body portion and applying a second forward force on a proximal end of the first body portion expanding the first body portion.

In an example embodiment the step of expanding the first body portion further includes applying the retrograde force by forcing a wedge shaped proximal end of the second body portion into a collar of the distal end of the first body portion and applying the second forward force with an impactor whereby the retrograde force and the second forward force expands the outer dimension of the first body portion.

A suture anchor assembly and methods of use will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. Although embodiments are described for the repair of meniscal defects it is understood that the methods and systems described can be use for the repair of other human or animal body defects. In particular it is contemplated that other embodiments of the invention can be use for repair and suture anchoring to bone or other tissues. Notwithstanding the specific example embodiments set forth below all such variations and modifications that would be envisioned by one of ordinary skill in the art are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure.

Throughout this description a retrograde force means a force applied generally opposite of the direction of insertion of the assembly. Additionally the verbs anchor and secure as used throughout this description mean to hold fast or otherwise fix or fasten.

One embodiment of the suture anchor assembly is shown in . The suture anchor assembly shown and described is a device that provides elements to allow new combinations of some features of the inside out and all inside solutions. This solution takes advantage of the accuracy and reliability of inside out and outside in suture solutions but can result in a device with all inside features once the system has been deployed. Thus by using this assembly outside incisions can be minimized while the accuracy and effectiveness of the inside out system can be duplicated.

The assembly disclosed provides a solution that can be accurately placed around the defect can be placed with fewer incisions and can be positioned to reduce the incidence of protrusions that may irritate the tissue or bone around the defect.

As shown in one embodiment of the suture anchor assembly comprises at least one set of a retrograde force element a button and a delivery system.

The retrograde force element is connected to the button by a force connector . The retrograde force element is used to deploy and anchor the button . As shown in the retrograde force element may comprise a retrograde suture that provides the retrograde force and also secures that suture and anchor pair to another suture anchor pair so that the defect is repaired or reinforced. Any type of surgical suture is suitable for use as a retrograde suture with this assembly. It is also understood that other types of retrograde force elements can be used to deploy the anchor and secure assembly elements and tissue together. These other types of retrograde force elements may include but not be limited to other securing elements such as rods pins staples and other materials that can transfer and maintain a tensile force.

As detailed in the button is a rigid or semi rigid element with a force connector . The button is shaped to change or transform shape when a retrograde force is applied to the force connector . Although not required this transformation can be done with some degree of control of the profile of the button. This change of shape allows the button to anchor in the tissue and counter that same or a different retrograde force. The button can be made of biocompatible materials that include but are not limited to metals metal alloys or non metallic materials such as nylon polyethylene polypropylene or any combination thereof. The force connector provides the connection through which forces are transferred to the button . Although shown in this embodiment as a suture tie for the retrograde suture the force connector can comprise any element capable of connecting the retrograde force element to the button in a way that a tensile force can be applied and maintained on the force element. Suitable connection elements include but are not limited to mating threads clips hooks holes permanent adhesive connections or any combination thereof.

In the embodiment shown in the button comprises an expandable first body portion and second retrograde force body portion and a means to connect the two portions. In this embodiment the expandable body portion is a generally elongated and pointed section and the retrograde force body portion is generally a broad section. The expandable and retrograde force portions each have a connection point and are connected to each connection point by a connector . The connection points comprise a means of receiving a connector such as a hole slot or adhesive and the connector comprises a means of connecting the two body portions such as but not limited to a pivot hinge or rivet. The retrograde force element in this embodiment comprises a retrograde suture . The retrograde suture is connected to the retrograde force portion of the button through the force connector comprising a suture tie . This suture tie can be any method of securing a suture to the body portion. The suture tie as shown in D comprises an off center hole in the retrograde force portion .

The means to connect the body portions of the button can include any connecting methods that allow the two portions to pivot and or rotate about the connection points. For example it is contemplated that the connector may be comprised of a protrusion hook or other connection element on one body portion that is capable of being connected to a complementary hole slot or other connecting element on the other body portion.

The interoperation of the suture tie the connection points and the two button body portions are such that a retrograde force on the suture tie urges the expandable body portion to rotate or otherwise move in a direction at an angle different than the retrograde force. This rotation or movement causes an expanded profile of the button which frictionally increases the resistance that can be provided by the button and expansion suture. The elongated shape where the length of the portion in an insertion position is greater than its width of the expandable body portion causes this expanded profile when the expandable portion is moved about the connector. This interoperation to cause the expandable body portion to rotate can be provided by a location of the suture tie relative to the connection points. One example of this interoperation is shown in where the location of suture tie is off the center of the retrograde force body portion while the connector and connection point is located in the center of both button portions. As shown in a retrograde force on the suture tie cause a force on the connector that causes the expandable body portion to pivot and or rotate at an angle different than the direction of the retrograde force. Alternately as shown in the location of the connection points on the expandable body portion to be off center while the suture tie is on the center line of the body portion.

It is also contemplated to have the shape of the body portions such that a retrograde force on the button causes the expandable body portion to pivot and or rotate. For example the expandable body portion can have a barb or other protrusion on its expansion end that causes that portion to rotate when partially retracted by the application of a retrograde force.

In some embodiments the shape of the button can be made such that it minimizes the possibility of undesired protrusions when the button is deployed. An undesired protrusion is a protrusion that can damage other tissues or bone. These undesired protrusions are different than the desired protrusions caused the normal expansion of the button. For example as in the shape of the button can be made so that it is primarily a two dimensional planar shape with a minimal profile in a third dimension. This allows the button to be inserted and to expand primarily in dimensions parallel to particular surfaces such as the articular cartilage surfaces of the knee while minimizing the potential for expanding perpendicular to those surfaces. This minimizes the possibility of having protrusions that may damages these surfaces or tissues. It is also contemplated that the shape of the cannula can be made to assist in the positioning of the button in deployment. This can be provided by but not limited to an inner bore shape of the cannula that is primarily slot shaped to cooperate with a primarily two dimensional shaped button. This would allow the profile of the button in the tissue to be controlled by the rotational position of the cannula. Other cooperating shapes of button and cannula bores are contemplated such as ovals circles and rectangles.

Referring back to the embodiment shown in the suture anchor assembly also comprises a delivery system for the button and retrograde force element . As shown in the embodiment in this delivery system comprises a needle a traction suture and a cannula .

The needle is used to position and insert the button and retrograde force element . The needle comprises an elongated rod with a sharpened distal end and a proximal end that has an eye or other means to allow connection to the traction suture . As an example and not for limitation 12 inch long needles made of stainless steel or Nitinol are suitable for use with this assembly.

The traction suture is connected to the needle s proximal end and the button . Preferably the traction suture is connected to a traction suture tie on the sharpened end of button s expandable body portion . The traction suture is used to connect the needle and the button allowing the button to be pulled through the tissue and the defect to be deployed on one side of the defect. Any type of surgical suture or similar connection means is suitable for use as a traction suture with this assembly.

The retrograde force element is connected to the force connector on a retrograde force body portion of the button .

The cannula is used to help position and deploy the needle . The cannula is a hollow element with a longitudinal extending bore to receive the needle the traction suture the button and the expansion suture. As an example and not for limitation 6 inch hollow cannula of about inch in diameter is suitable for use with this assembly. In one embodiment the distal end of the cannula is bent at angles to help guide the needles into the proper direction and position.

And although the delivery system embodiment described includes a traction suture connected to a traction suture tie and the eye of a needle other means to connect the needle and the button are contemplated that include flexible semi flexible or substantially rigid connecting elements. Examples of these connecting elements include but are not limited to a directly mating connection between the needle and the button such as a threaded connection one element hooking into an eye of another or one element clipping into a recess of another. Other examples of connecting elements include but are not limited to a connector connecting the needle and the button such as a flexible hook chain wire rods or other means to removeably connect the two elements.

As shown in the deployment of the fingers enables the button to act as an obstruction and anchor for the retrograde suture connected to the button.

Embodiments of the buttons may include rigid buttons made of rigid bioabsorbable or resorbable materials such as but not limited to polyglycolic acid polylactic acid enantiomers poly D L lactic acid copolymer polyglycolic acid a combination of polylactic acid and hydroxyapatite or materials such as collagen.

Embodiments of buttons may also include pliable buttons made of soft or pliable material or a rigid material configured such as a rigid material configured as a spring like spiral or a woven mesh to bend fold dilate expand or otherwise deform upon application of a force on the button. Embodiments of pliable buttons may be made of bioabsorbable resorbable or non resorbable materials. For illustration only and not for limitation embodiments of a pliable button may be made of materials including braided sutures sponges and sponge like materials in solid form perforated materials woven braided from biocompatible materials or fibers such as for example polymer polyester polyethylene cotton silk or other natural or synthetic materials including sponges and sponge like materials. The button may also be an elongated tubular or solid member or a two dimensional member with or without internal bores. The button may have any properties that allow it to change shape. The button can be for example compliant flexible foldable squashable squeezable deformable limp flaccid elastic low modulus soft spongy perforated or have any other flexible properties which allow it to change shape.

The pliability of the button allows the button to deform upon application of a force. The deformation may be any change in shape that helps the button become more secured in the tissue. For example the deformation may be to extend swell enlarge expand widen dilate distend inflate or become larger and taking up more space in a dimension that helps secure the button.

Two example embodiments of a generally tubular shaped pliable button are shown in . illustrates a tubular sleeve shaped button having a first body portion and a second body portion . In this embodiment the force connector is on the first body portion . The first body portion also has a means to connect the first body portion with the second body portion whereby a retrograde force on the force connector causes the button to deform and engage a tissue and secure the button in the tissue. In this embodiment the means to connect the body portions is a middle body portion which is a continuation of the tubular sleeve between the two body portions and the force connector is a through hole extending through the wall of the button . illustrates one embodiment of a suture anchor assembly having a button a traction suture a needle and a suture . The means to connect the needle to the first body portion by a suture tie which in this embodiment also functions as the force connector . This illustration shows the assembly in a collapsed insertion profile as it may look while being inserted and pulled through a tissue by the needle and traction suture . illustrates the embodiment of with the traction suture and needle removed and a retrograde force F being applied to the suture and the force connector . In this embodiment the suture is the retrograde force element and it extends through a longitudinal inner bore of the button through a foot connector . As shown the button is deformed into a dilated anchor profile shape that helps anchor the button in the tissue. As can be seen the foot connector is also shown which can retain the second body portion in relation to the first body portion so that the button resists eversion e.g. inverting or flipping inside out as the retrograde force is applied. In this embodiment the foot connector is a through hole extending through the wall of the second body portion of the button and the foot connector is sized similar to the force connector so that it restricts the movement of the second body portion with respect to the first body portion to resist the button inverting or everting. As can also be seen protrusions P may also be formed in the deformation that helps the button engage the tissue.

The embodiments of anchoring sutures described above are also suitable for anchoring sutures to other body parts such as bones. One embodiment particularly suitable as a bone suture anchoring system is shown in and described below.

Referring to another embodiment of the suture anchor assembly comprises an expandable first body portion comprising one or more collars with expansion fingers a second retrograde force portion shaped as a trochar a delivery rod and an impactor . Although not limited to this embodiment is particularly helpful for anchoring sutures to bone.

In this embodiment the retrograde force body portion is shaped as a wedge pin or trochar with sharpened distal end and a connectable proximal end including a force connector. In this embodiment the force connector comprises a threaded portion to removably connect with the threaded end of the delivery rod . This retrograde force body portion is preferably made from a rigid material such as a metal plastic or a composite that allows a force to be applied to the threaded end while the sharpened end penetrates bone.

The delivery rod is a rigid or semi rigid element capable of receiving a force from one end of the rod and transferring that force to retrograde force body portion of the button . The rod is cable of receiving and transferring both a forward and retrograde force to the retrograde force body portion . The distal end of the rod is configured to mate with the force connector of the retrograde force portion of the button. In this embodiment the delivery rod distal end is threaded to mate with the force connector. It is contemplated that either of these elements may have the male or female elements of a threaded connection.

Although this embodiment has a delivery rod that connects with retrograde force portion of the button with the use of threaded connections it is also understood that other means of connecting the delivery rod and the button are possible such as but not limited to mating clips buttons protrusions or other connection means.

In this embodiment shown in the expandable body portion comprises a proximal collar a distal collar each attached to one or more expanding fingers . The collars and fingers are configured so that when forces are applied to urge both collars together the fingers are forced to flexibly expand outward from the center of the body portion. illustrates this embodiment in an expanded configuration. This expansion creates the larger profile of the button . Although the fingers are able to flexibly expand they are rigid enough to provide a frictional connection when expanded against bone or other tissue. The expandable body portion of this embodiment can be made of materials that include but are not limited to metals metal alloys or non metallic materials such as nylon polyethylene polypropylene or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment it is also contemplated that the shape of the retrograde force portion includes a hook protrusion or other means to engage the proximal collar so that the two collars can be retained together and the fingers can be kept in their expanded position after deployment. For one embodiment shown in the engagement means comprises one or more protrusions A on the retrograde force body portion that compress when forced through one direction of the bore of the proximal collar and expand to prevent the collar from moving in the other direction to retain the collar in one position relative to the protrusions A. In this embodiment the wedge shape of the distal end of the retrograde force body portion creates a wedge edge B that transfers the retrograde force against the distal collar . The cooperation of the protrusions A engagement on the proximal collar and the wedge edge B against the distal collar retains the button in a position where the fingers are maintained in an expanded state after deployment. As shown in if there are multiple protrusions A the retrograde force body portion will urge the collars together until the fingers expand fully into the defect or bore and the protrusions will be retracted through the proximal collar to engage the proximal collar in a tight position. As also shown in a threaded recess C provides one means to connect the delivery rod with the retrograde force body portion . Also shown is is an additional suture tie D to receive and secure a suture to the anchor assembly.

The impactor is a rigid or semi rigid element capable of receiving a force from one end of the impactor and transferring that force to the expandable body portion . In the embodiment shown the impactor is a rigid cannula with a longitudinal hollow bore to receive the delivery rod . In this embodiment the bore is shaped to allow the delivery rod to move within the bore while it is also shaped to provide a resisting force on the proximal collar of the button . The impactor is shaped to allow the required force to be applied. It is understood that this may require surfaces to either allow the force to be applied frictionally or for the surfaces to be shaped to allow a striking force to be applied. For example and not for limitation the impactor may be shaped to have texture about its outer surface to allow the user to frictionally apply the forward force or it can include a flattened surface that would allow the impactor to be struck by a device such as a hammer.

In this embodiment the cooperation of the elements allows the anchor to be deployed without the need for a traction suture and needle.

It is understood and contemplated that the anchor elements including the button elements retrograde force elements and sutures can be made with both resorbable and non resorbable materials and each one has its individual characteristics which allow it to work best in tissue or in bone such as cortical and cancellous bone.

Embodiments of the buttons may include rigid buttons made of rigid bioabsorbable or resorbable materials. For illustration only and not for limitation the buttons may be made from polymers such as polyglycolic acid polylactic acid enantiomers poly D L lactic acid copolymer polyglycolic acid or a combination of polylactic acid and hydroxyapatite. In the later example embodiment the polylactic acid dissolves in the body and the hydroyxapatite may interact with the surrounding tissue to promote bone growth that can help fill in the holes made for or by the buttons.

Embodiments of the buttons may also include rigid buttons made of bioabsorbable or resorbable material such as collagen. In some embodiments the button swells upon hydration and permits normal bone generation to assist in anchoring the button.

Embodiment of the buttons may also include rigid buttons have elements being made of a combination of bioabsorbable material and non absorbable material. In some of these embodiments some elements may have surfaces that are bioabsorbable such as an exterior surface of the expansion fingers made of collagen to help assist in anchoring the button into bone.

One method of operating one embodiment of the suture anchor assembly shown in is shown as process steps in . Although particular embodiments of the suture anchor assembly are described and particular uses of the methods are described these uses and embodiments are used for illustration purposes and not for limitation. This method comprises the steps of 

Following the starting step a suture anchor assembly is provided as step . In one embodiment the suture anchor assembly comprises a needle a traction suture a button a retrograde force connector and a cannula. The needle is connected to the button with the traction suture and the retrograde force connector is also connected to the button.

Step includes making a small incision to provide access to the tissue to be repaired. For meniscal repair embodiments this includes making a small incisions on either the medial or lateral joint line down to the outer lining of the joint capsule.

Step includes inserting the needle and traction suture of the suture anchor assembly through the cannula and joint lining and through the defect in the meniscus. The needle is passed from the inside of the joint to the outside while carefully protecting the neurovascular structures.

Step includes pulling the button through the tissue with the needle and the traction suture. The button need not be pulled entirely through the tissue but may be pulled across the defect and into a position such that the button will anchor into the tissue on the opposing side of the defect. The buttons are preferably not placed near significant neuro vascular structures. The buttons are also placed to make sure it is buried in the tissue so that no sharp edges are exposed to other tissues or bone.

In one embodiment for meniscal repair it is beneficial but not necessary in this method to have the button shaped generally flat or planar so that its profile once inserted can be generally parallel to the surfaces of the knee joints to minimize the possibility of protrusions that would irritate the tissues of the joint. For control purposes the hollow of the cannula can be shaped to receive the button and control its profile during insertion. For example the button can be planar shaped and the hollow of the cannula can be slot shaped allowing a rotation of the cannula to rotation the planar position of the button.

In one embodiment of meniscal repair the final position of the buttons may also be pulled totally through the meniscus to include but not limited to positions that rest on the outer surface of the meniscus or positions outside of the joint capsule.

Step includes applying a retrograde force on the retrograde force element to deploy the button and urge the tissue defect into the desired position. Typically but not necessarily this desired position is to urge opposing edges of a defect together. The retrograde force on the retrograde suture is transferred to a retrograde force to the button which forces the button to deploy and anchor the expansion suture.

Although not required step includes repeating the above steps for at least a second time. For embodiments where the retrograde force element is a retrograde suture the placement of the needle and the retrograde suture into the tissue is such that it can form sutures such as but not limited to vertical or horizontal mattress sutures to repair the meniscal defect.

Step includes anchoring the retrograde force element to maintain the tissue defect in the desired position. For embodiments where the retrograde force element is a retrograde suture the fixation arms of the sutures can be anchored by tying knots in or otherwise knotting the sutures separately or knotting the expansion sutures together to repair the defect.

Step includes removing the traction suture. The traction suture and needle may be removed from the button at any time after the button is positioned properly. One method of removal is to have the traction suture configured as a loop through both the button and the needle whereby cutting one segment of the loop allows the entire suture to be pulled out of the button.

In suture anchor assembly embodiments such as those illustrated in that utilize a forward force to help anchor the button the second suture is configured and inserted through the tissue similar to the traction suture. After the second suture is used to provide the forward force and the anchor is properly positioned the suture is removed by cutting a section of the suture loop and pulling the suture through the foot connector and out of the tissue.

The result of this embodiment for a miniscal repair as illustrated in B are retrograde sutures that are anchored on either side of a miniscal defect to maintain the tissue in a position to repair or promote healing of the defect. shows two sutures A and B anchored by two buttons A and B across the tissue defect .

With this embodiment of the method incisions that are normally needed in the inside out procedures to secure the fixation arms of the sutures are not needed. Additionally the ability to use needles to position the buttons and sutures allows more accurate position of the devices within the tissue and around neuro vascular structures.

Other methods of use are contemplated as would be envisioned by those skilled in the art. For example it is contemplated to have pre tied knots in the sutures to either create a knot in a single suture or to tie two or more sutures together.

It is also contemplated that the method of using needles and traction sutures to position the anchor can be used with other suture anchor systems. Needles and elements to provide the function of the traction suture can be used with existing suture anchor systems.

It is also contemplated that the above method may be performed without the need to use a needle and traction suture to position the button. For these embodiments it is envisioned that the button may be manufactured to include a distal end that can insert itself and the retrograde suture sufficiently or it can be designed to receive an element such as a guide pin that can be removed once the button is positioned properly. In these embodiments it is also envisioned that the cannula or other guide means can be designed to provide the force to position the button for meniscal repair.

Although the above description is illustrative of the methods for use with meniscal repair it is also contemplated that the methods can be applied to the repair of other tissues such as but not limited to stomachs and cartilage associated with joints such as a hip elbow or shoulder.

One method of using one embodiment of the bone suture anchor assembly shown in is outlined in and described below.

Following step a bone suture anchor assembly is provided in step . In one embodiment the assembly includes an expandable first body portion comprising one or more collars with expanding fingers a second retrograde force portion shaped as a trochar a delivery rod and an impactor. As shown in the delivery rod is connected to the proximal end of the retrograde force portion . The delivery rod is received through the proximal collar and distal collar of the expandable first body portion and the impactor is placed around the delivery rod forcing the expandable body potion to be positioned between trochar and the impactor .

Step includes positioning the sharpened end of the trochar against the bone and impacting the anchor assembly into the bone. This step typically includes striking the delivery rod with a weighted object such as a hammer. This forward force is transferred through the delivery rod to the sharp end of the trochar causing the trochar to penetrate the bone. In this step the sharp trochar is inserted into the bone followed by the insertion of the expandable body portion. The size and shape of the trocar is such that its penetration of the bone forms a cavity of a size to allow the first body portion to also penetrate the bone. Embodiments of this assembly can be inserted into the bone with or without pre drilling.

Once the trochar and expandable first body portion have penetrated the bone step includes applying a retrograde force the retrograde force element. In one embodiment this retrograde force is applied by the delivery rod that is connected to the trochar by the cooperation of the threaded end of the delivery rod and the threaded end of the trochar. The application of this retrograde force subjects the trochar and the distal end of the expandable body portion to that retrograde force while the proximal end of the expandable body portion is subjected to an opposite forward force from the impactor. These opposing forces force the trochar to pass through the middle of the anchoring device until the outer dimension of the trochar can no longer fit the interior dimension of the distal collar of the first body portion. When the trochar can no longer pass the retrograde force is transferred to the distal collar forcing the collar to move toward the proximal collar and expand the first body portion until the body portion can no longer expand. This anchor will expand until its profile generally fills the bore created by the trochar. At that point the expanding trochar will stop its retrograde progression. In this position the anchor is frictionally engaged and held in the bone bore.

Although step includes pulling the trochar retrograde into the expandable body portion it is also contemplated that the anchor assembly can engage the tissue by maintaining the position of the trochar and forcing the expandable body portion onto the shape of the trochar. This forcing can be applied by the impactor and can also cause the expandable body portion to expand into the bore.

Step includes attaching a suture or other surgical device to the anchor assembly s first or second body portion. The suture is attached to the anchor assembly under tension which keeps the expandable body portion in an expanded position.

The result of this embodiment is shown in . The trochar retrograde body portion is retracted against the distal collar . The proximal collar has been retained to urge the fingers to expand. Once expanded the fingers are frictionally engaged within an opening in the bone originally caused by the trochar being impacted into the bone.

With respect to the above description then it is to be realized that the optimum dimensional relationships for the parts of the invention to include variations in size materials shape form function and manner of operation assembly and use are deemed readily apparent and obvious to one skilled in the art and all equivalent relationships to those illustrated in the drawings and described in the specification are intended to be encompassed by the present invention.

Therefore the foregoing is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation shown and described and accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope of the invention.

