---

title: Methods and apparatus for progressive pattern matching in a mobile environment
abstract: Methods and apparatus for performing efficient pattern matching in a client-server network are described herein. A communication device acquires an object to be matched. At least one reduced set of features is extracted from the object to be matched and a determination as to whether the object to be matched matches one of a plurality of known objects in a local library stored on the communication device is generated. An indication representing a match of the object is presented if the determination indicates a local match exists in the local library. A match request including the at least one reduced set of features is transmitted for a remote matching determination when the determination indicates that no local match exists in the local library. In accordance with some aspects, a series of one or more match requests may be transmitted for a remote matching determination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09208392&OS=09208392&RS=09208392
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09208392
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120227
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 536 905 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Progressive Pattern Matching in Mobile Environment filed Sep. 20 2011 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

This application relates generally to pattern matching and more particularly to balancing computational and or communication workload associated with pattern matching in a mobile environment.

Mobile applications that rely upon pattern recognition such as augmented reality visual searching image recognition etc. require a large amount of computational power. In addition a library of target patterns must be accessible either on the communication device e.g. the client device or within a remote computing device such as a server on the Internet. Computational and target library limitations can limit usefulness and user experience of such applications. Moreover these limitations can place an undue burden on the communication network between the client and server.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key nor critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with some aspects a method of efficiently performing pattern matching in a client server network includes acquiring by a communication device an object to be matched. The method further includes extracting at least one reduced set of features from the object to be matched and generating a determination as to whether the object to be matched matches one of a plurality of known objects in a local library stored on the communication device. The method further includes presenting an indication representing a match of the object if the determination indicates a local match exists in the local library. Additionally the method includes transmitting a match request including the at least one reduced set of features for a remote matching determination when the determination indicates that no local match exists in the local library. In accordance with some aspects a series of one or more match requests may be transmitted for a remote matching determination.

In accordance with some aspects a computer program product comprises a computer readable medium comprising at least one instruction for causing a computer to acquire an object to be matched. The computer readable medium further comprises at least one instruction for causing the computer to extract at least one reduced set of features from the object to be matched. The computer readable medium also includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to generate a determination as to whether the object to be matched matches one of a plurality of known objects in a local library. At least one instruction for causing the computer to present an indication representing a match of the object if the determination indicates a local match exists in the local library is also included in the computer readable medium. Additionally the computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to transmit a match request including the at least one reduced set of features for a remote matching determination when the determination indicates that no local match exists in the local library.

In accordance with some aspects an apparatus comprises means for acquiring an object to be matched. The apparatus may also include means for extracting at least one reduced set of features from the object to be matched. In addition the apparatus may comprise means for generating a determination as to whether the object to be matched matches one of a plurality of known objects in a local library. The apparatus also includes means for presenting an indication representing a match of the object if the determination indicates a local match exists in the local library. Additionally the apparatus includes means for transmitting a match request including the at least one reduced set of features for a remote matching determination when the determination indicates that no local match exists in the local library.

In accordance with some aspects an apparatus for efficiently performing pattern matching in a client server network comprises at least one processor configured to acquire an object to be matched extract at least one reduced set of features from the object to be matched generate a determination as to whether the object to be matched matches one of a plurality of known objects in a local library present an indication representing a match of the object if the determination indicates a local match exists in the local library and transmit a match request including the at least one reduced set of features for a remote matching determination when the determination indicates that no local match exists in the local library. The apparatus may also include a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

In accordance with some aspects a method of using pattern recognition to present information comprises receiving from a communication device at a remotely located computational component an initial reduced set of features extracted from an object to be matched. The method may also include progressively receiving additional reduced sets of features extracted from the object to be matched. In addition the method includes searching a library for an object matching either or both of the initial reduced set of features and the additional reduced sets of features until a potential match is found that meets a confidence factor. The method also includes upon determining the potential match for the object transmitting an identification of the matched object.

In accordance with some aspects a computer program product comprises a computer readable medium comprising at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive from a remotely located communication device an initial reduced set of features extracted from an object to be matched. The computer readable medium also includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to progressively receive additional reduced sets of features extracted from the object to be matched. The computer readable medium further includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to search a library for an object matching either or both of the initial reduced set of features and the additional reduced sets of features until a potential match is found that meets a confidence factor. Additionally the computer readable medium includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to upon determining the potential match for the object transmit an identification of the matched object.

In accordance with some aspects an apparatus comprises means for receiving from a remotely located communication device an initial reduced set of features extracted from an object to be matched. The apparatus may also include means for progressively receiving additional reduced sets of features extracted from the object to be matched. Additionally the apparatus includes means for searching a library for an object matching either or both of the initial reduced set of features and the additional reduced sets of features until a potential match is found that meets a confidence factor. The apparatus also includes means for upon determining the potential match for the object transmitting an identification of the matched object.

In accordance with some aspects an apparatus for using pattern recognition to present information comprises a processor configured to receive from a remotely located communication device an initial reduced set of features extracted from an object to be matched progressively receive additional reduced sets of features extracted from the object to be matched search a library for an object matching either or both of the initial reduced set of features and the additional reduced sets of features until a potential match is found that meets a confidence factor and upon determining the potential match for the object transmit an identification of the matched object. The apparatus also includes a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

The apparatus and methods described herein enable computation and communication costs to be reduced when performing pattern matching in a mobile environment. A communication device may be configured to perform initial processing on an object for which identification is desired. An object may include for example an image a video clip an audio clip text etc. The communication device may maintain a local object library and may make one or more initial attempts to match the object to be identified by searching the local object library. If the local search is unsuccessful the communication device may reduce the size of the object by extracting one or more reduced sets of features from the object and progressively sending the reduced sets of features to a server to request identification. The server attempts to find a match for the object based on the progressively received reduced sets of features and may provide multiple possible matches each having a respective confidence factor. The communication device may begin by sending an initial reduced set of features extracted from the object to the server and may progressively send additional reduced sets of features relating to the object wherein each of the additional reduced sets of features has a progressively higher resolution or provides different information about the object until a match meeting a confidence factor is found.

Communication device is depicted in greater detail in according to one aspect. Communication device may include a processor for carrying out processing functions associated with one or more of components and functions described herein. Processor can include a single or multiple set of processors or multi core processors. Moreover processor can be implemented as an integrated processing system and or a distributed processing system.

Communication device further includes a memory such as for storing data used herein and or local versions of applications being executed by processor . Memory can include any type of memory usable by a computer such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM tapes magnetic discs optical discs volatile memory non volatile memory and any combination thereof. Applications may include for example one or more context specific pattern matching applications.

Further communication device may include a communications component that provides for establishing and maintaining communications with one or more parties utilizing hardware software and services as described herein. Communications component may carry communications between components on communication device as well as between communication device and external devices such as devices located across a communications network and or devices serially or locally connected to communication device . For example communications component may include one or more buses and may further include transmit chain components and receive chain components associated with a transmitter and receiver respectively operable for interfacing with external devices.

Additionally communication device may further include a data store which can be any suitable combination of hardware and or software that provides for mass storage of information databases and programs employed in connection with aspects described herein. For example data store may be a data repository for applications not currently being executed by processor .

Communication device may additionally include a user interface component operable to receive inputs from a user of communication device and further operable to generate outputs for presentation to the user. User interface component may include one or more input devices including but not limited to a keyboard a number pad a mouse a touch sensitive display a navigation key a function key a microphone a voice recognition component a still camera a video camera an audio recorder and or any other mechanism capable of receiving an input or any combination thereof. The one or more input devices may be used to capture an object for which pattern matching is desired. Further user interface component may include one or more output devices including but not limited to a display a speaker a haptic feedback mechanism a printer any other mechanism capable of presenting an output or any combination thereof.

Communication device may include object identification component which may include a feature extraction module configured to create reduced sets of features from an object for which pattern matching is desired. The reduced sets of features are smaller in memory or data size than the original object thereby reducing communication and or processing costs. Communication device may be configured to request pattern matching for a plurality of types of objects such as for example a static image a dynamic image audio text video a matrix a barcode a word a letter a sign language gesture a song etc. For example the original object may be defined or represented by a relatively large amount of data which correspondingly may require a relatively large amount of memory space for storage as well as computational and communication power to perform pattern recognition. Accordingly in some aspects feature extraction module creates one or more reduced sets of features extracted from the object that are smaller in size e.g. that represent the object or a portion of the object using a relatively smaller amount of data as compared to the original amount of data. Techniques for extracting features may include for example scissoring edge detection progressive scanning corner detection etc.

In accordance with some aspects objection identification component may also include a local pattern matching library for storing a relatively small amount or number of common patterns representing known objects as compared to a relative large amount or number of common patterns representing known objects that may be stored remotely such as at the server. This enables communication device such as via execution of a match management module which may in one example also be a part of objection identification component to quickly detect common patterns between the object to be matched and objects represented in local pattern matching library without communicating with an external server. For example in one aspect match management module may include one or more matching functions that compare one or more features of the object to be matched with one or more features of objects represented in local pattern matching library and determines a match for example based on a level of similarity. As such in some aspects match management module attempts to find a match in the local pattern matching library based on an entirety of the object to be matched while in other aspects match management module attempts to find a match in the local pattern matching library progressively based on one or more of the reduced sets of features of the object to be matched as generated by feature extraction module . For those objects that cannot be matched via local pattern matching library match management module may progressively send one or more of the reduced sets of features created by feature extraction module to an external server. Match management module may include a progressive transmission function configured to send an initial reduced set of features to an external server such as computing device for pattern matching. Match management module executing a progressive transmission algorithm may progressively send additional reduced sets of features extracted from the object until a match is found. The additional reduced sets of features provide additional and or different information extracted from the object that can be used to identify the object. In some aspects match management module may send the additional reduced sets of features substantially continuously until a match is received. In other aspects the additional reduced sets of features may be sent on a periodic basis while waiting for a match.

Match management module may also be configured to receive indications of potential matches from the server. Indications may include for example a textual identification of the potentially matching object a link to a website containing information about the potentially matching object etc. Match management module may present the potential matches to a user via a user interface. A response from the user may indicate whether one of the potential matches is an actual match. Thus upon receipt of the user input match management module may continue the progressive sending if the user input does not indicate a match or may terminate the progressive sending if a match is indicated.

For example in one aspect the initial reduced set of features may be created by performing an edge detection operation on the object and only the edges of the object may be transmitted. If the communication device does not receive a match based on the initial reduced set of features generated by the edge detection operation the match management module can send another reduced set of features having more or different features than the initial reduced set of features. For example in an aspect the progressively transmitted reduced sets of features may include a progressively increasing number of additional or different features within the edges defined by the initial reduced set of features. In some aspects match management module can automatically send additional reduced sets of features until a match is found e.g. a client initiated match request . In other aspects match management module can send additional reduced sets of features upon request by the server performing the pattern match e.g. a server initiated request .

In some aspects match management module may be configured to send contextual information along with one or more of the reduced sets of features. Contextual information may include for example location information user preference information time and or any other contextual information that can aid the server in finding a match. The contextual information may be user provided or may be derived by interaction with one or more components of communication device . For example if communication device includes a location module such as a global positioning system GPS module match management module may contact the location module to obtain location information associated with the object.

In some aspects remote object identification component may include a pattern matching library for searching for objects matching the received reduced sets of features. The pattern matching library may store identity information about the object e.g. a known object as well as other information such as universal resource locators URLs to shopping or informational websites associated with the matched objects location information advertisements etc. When providing the potential matches pattern matching module may also provide the additional information corresponding to the object.

While depicts an exemplary method wherein a local library is searched prior to transmitting a match request to a remote computational component in some aspects a local search may not be performed. For example communication device may be configured to determine that a local match is unlikely with respect to a particular object to be matched. As such one or more reduced sets of features extracted from the object to be matched may be transmitted directly to the remote computational component without first performing a local search.

In accordance with some aspects communication device may include one or more context specific pattern matching applications. For example product or service providers may provide applications for identifying certain types of objects. For example a specific pattern matching application may be provided for matching music clips for recognizing road signs flowers bugs sign language gestures barcodes etc. These applications may be stored for example in memory and or data store . As such feature extraction module and or match management module may be implemented via the launch of one or more context specific pattern matching applications. In some aspects contextual information associated with extracted reduced sets of features may be inherent to the context specific pattern matching application.

One example wherein the described apparatus and methods can be implemented is augmented reality AR . For example if a device transmits a picture of a flat tire to the server the server may provide information to be overlaid on a display of the device providing step by step instructions for changing the tire. Another example where progressive pattern recognition starting with low resolution patterns would be beneficial is a remote computer based American Sign Language ASL translator. Rather than sending a video of finger and hand movements representing ASL gestures to the remote computer e.g. a server on the Internet to translate the meaning to text or speech gestures could be detected on the device and a reduced data set version of the image could be uploaded often reducing the amount of data involved by two or three orders of magnitude.

To perform progressive pattern matching according to one aspect of the described apparatus and methods a client device such as communication device may first search a local library to identify the object to be matched based on the original image shown at and or on one or more of the reduced sets of features shown at and . If a local match cannot be found the communication device may transmit the reduced set of features shown at to a server. In this case for an object like a maple leaf with such a distinct outline this minimal information may be sufficient to recognize the object with a high degree of confidence and requires sending 60 times less data than the original image. However if the server was unable to find a match meeting an approved confidence level the communication device could next transmit the reduced set of features shown at . The communication device could then continue to progressively send additional reduced sets of features e.g. the reduced sets of features at and then at until a match is found meeting the confidence level sending the original image at only as a last resort.

Referring to an apparatus that efficiently performs pattern matching in a client server network can reside at least partially within communication device . It is to be appreciated that apparatus is represented as including functional blocks which can represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . As such apparatus includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance logical grouping may include means for acquiring an object to be matched . For example in an aspect the means can include user interface component and or processor . Logical grouping can include means for extracting at least one reduced set of features from the object to be matched . For example in an aspect the means can include feature extraction module and or or processor . Further logical grouping can include means for generating a determination as to whether the object to be matched matches one of a plurality of known objects in a local library stored on the communication device . In an aspect the means may include local pattern matching library user interface component and or processor . Also logical grouping can include means for presenting an indication representing a match of the object if the determination indicates a local match exists in the local library Block . In an aspect the means may include local pattern matching library user interface component and or processor . In addition logical grouping can include means for transmitting a match request including the at least one reduced set of features for a remote matching determination when the determination indicates that no local match exists in the local library . In an aspect the means may include communications component feature extraction module and or processor .

Additionally apparatus can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of can exist within memory . In an aspect for example memory may be the same as or similar to memory or data store .

Additionally apparatus can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of and can exist within memory . In an aspect for example memory may be the same as or similar to memory or data store .

In the subject disclosure the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a communication device which can be a wired communication device or a wireless communication device. A communication device can also be called a system device client device subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A communication device may be a cellular telephone a satellite phone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability a computing device or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with communication device s and may also be referred to as an access point a Node B or some other terminology.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

The techniques described herein may be used for various personal local or wide area communication systems such as Bluetooth WiFi CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. Further cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is a release of UMTS that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Additionally cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . Further such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer to peer e.g. mobile to mobile ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums 802.xx wireless LAN BLUETOOTH and any other short or long range wireless communication techniques.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

