---

title: System and method for visually tracking a learned process
abstract: The disclosed embodiments include systems and methods for creating trails indicative of a learned process. In one embodiment, a user provides a title and user input for generating the learned processed is received. Nodes are created to represent steps of the learned process in response to the user input. Information for each of the steps is associated with each of the nodes. The nodes are connected in an order for performing the learned process. The connected nodes are visually displayed as a trail for one or more users to perform the learned process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09536445&OS=09536445&RS=09536445
owner: disruptDev, LLC
number: 09536445
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121031
---
The use of and development of online resources and electronic communications has grown nearly exponentially in recent years. The growth is fueled by larger networks with more reliable protocols and better computing and communications devices available to individuals users and service providers. As a result users utilize and rely on online resources more and more to perform tasks both simple and complex. In many cases users may perform a single task multiple times or may want to share information with friends family or strangers. Existing websites and tools are not focused on duplicating information and processes for users that would like to access the same information.

One embodiment provides a system method and device for visually tracking a learned process. The user input utilized to perform the learned process and a title for the learned processed is received. Nodes are created to represent steps of the learned process in response to the user input. Information for each of the steps is associated with each of the nodes. The nodes are connected in an order for performing the learned process. The connected nodes are visually displayed as a trail for one or more users to perform the learned process. The device may include a processor and a memory for storing a set of instructions to implement the method herein described.

Another embodiment provides a system for visually tracking a learned process. The system may include a client configured to receive user input utilized to perform the learned process. The system may include a server configured to create nodes to represent steps of the learned process in response to the user input associate information for each of the steps with each of the nodes connect the nodes in an order for performing the learned process and visually display the connected nodes as a trail for one or more users to perform the learned process.

One embodiment provides a system and method for managing a trail. The trail may be generated in response to receiving user input provided by a user. The trail may include multiple nodes that are interconnected. Characteristics for the multiple nodes including at least shape and color may be established. The trail may be modified in response to receiving additional user input. The trail may be displayed according to user preferences established by the user. The system may include a processor and a memory for storing a set of instructions to implement the method herein described.

Another embodiment provides a system for managing a trail. The system may include one or more clients for receiving user input. The system may include a server in communication with the one or more clients through at least one network. The server may be operable to generate the trail in response to receiving the user input provided by a user through the one or more clients the trail includes multiple nodes that are interconnected to perform a learned process establish characteristics for the multiple nodes including at least shape and color modify the trail in response to receiving additional user input and display the trail according to user preferences established by the user.

One embodiment provides a method for displaying a trail to a user. A user profile may be established for the user. A learning preference for the user is determined in response to receiving user input to multiple questions. A set of peers may be determined for the user in response to interactions with the user. A trail may be displayed for the user utilizing the set of peers.

Another embodiment provides a server for displaying a trail to a user. The logic may be operable to establish a user profile for multiple users determine learning preferences for the multiple users in response to receiving user input to multiple questions and determine a set of peers for the user in response to interactions with the user. The server may further include one or more databases for storing multiple trails. The server may display the trails to the multiple users according to user preferences associated with each of the multiple trails.

Yet another embodiment provides a server for displaying a trail to a user. The server may include a processor for executing a set of instructions and a memory for storing the set of instructions. The set of instructions may be executed to establish a user profile for the user determine a learning preference for the user in response to receiving user input to multiple questions determine a set of peers for the user in response to interactions with the user and display a trail for the user utilizing the set of peers.

One embodiment provides a system method and device for generating a trail. The device may include a processor for executing a set of instructions and a memory for storing the set of instructions. The set of instructions may be executed to receive user input to create a trail in response to content generated or retrieved by a user establish a hierarchy for the trail in response to receiving the content establish characteristics for the multiple nodes including at least shape and color and generating the trail utilizing the hierarchy and the characteristics and according to user preferences established by the user. The trail may include multiple nodes that are interconnected.

Another embodiment provides a server for generating a trail for a user. The server may include logic operable to receive user input to create a trail in response to content generated or retrieved by a user establish a hierarchy for the trail in response to receiving the content the trail includes multiple nodes that are interconnected establish characteristics for the multiple nodes including at least shape and color and generate the trail utilizing hierarchy and the characteristics and according to user preferences established by the user. The server may include one or more databases for storing multiple trails including the trail and the user preferences.

Yet another embodiment provides a method for generating a trail. User input may be received to create the trail in response to content generated or retrieved by a user. A hierarchy may be established for the trail in response to receiving the content. The trail may include multiple nodes that are interconnected. Characteristics are established for the multiple nodes including at least shape and color. The trail may be generated utilizing the hierarchy and the characteristics according to user preferences established by the user.

Illustrative embodiments provide a system and method for tracking and managing content. In one embodiment the system and method may be utilized to generate trails. Trails are a collection of visual and textual indicators associated with online content information and data such as websites videos images lists or other information. However the trails may also be adapted for those users that are visually audibly or otherwise impaired or presented utilizing corresponding mediums e.g. audible tactile trails .

The trails may be hierarchically organized to include any number of components including trails requests users relationships e.g. profiles peers maps or other sub components e.g. nodes tags sequences visualization etc . The trails may include nodes representing distinct content i.e. uniform resource locators URLs documents files information videos etc that may be added to the system by users which may have been annotated with notes tags titles descriptions and other labels and which may be connected utilizing any number of connectors. The nodes of the trail may be positioned displayed or laid out randomly sequentially or in any number of automatically generated or user selected patterns. The nodes and connectors may be represented by any number of shapes colors patterns and interactive features e.g. pop up windows displayable information based on a mouse over etc .

The trails may be utilized to address any topic process project research or other information. The trails may be associated with a user account and profile including a username and password. The user account may further specify preferences and permissions for sharing all or portions of the trails that are associated with the user account. In one example a user may make specified trails public to anyone and may include information for indexing and searching the trail. Publicly available trails may be labeled and indexed as a whole and based on their many parts for online searches performed through a specific website or through general Internet searching. In another example the user may specify trails that are private or only shared with specific parties by invitation. The profile may be explicitly or implicitly created based on surveys questionnaires and actions such as generating cloning reviewing reading or otherwise interacting with trails created by the user or other users. As a result the profile may be updated automatically or based on user events to further customize how the user displays manages and accesses trails. The described system may also be utilized to filter calculate and return search results including next nodes or next trails as well as related trails requests and users.

In one embodiment trails may be utilized to answer one or more questions. Rather then just curating collecting and sharing bookmarks and online content trails may be utilized to provide a clear sequence and a visualization of main and tangential links forks or branches in conjunction with nodes notes labels and more to answer a question or address a particular issue. As a result utilizing trails provides expanded information for subsequent use by any user documentation or information sharing activity. Trails may be particularly useful when integrated with social networking features.

The illustrative embodiments provide a system and method for creating visualizing and distributing trails to help users understand any topic or answer most any question. The subject matter addressed by the trail may start from either an explicitly input topic s from semantically expanded terms to related topics or from analyzing the content of a question to generate relevant topic s . Relationships important and context may also be utilized to generate the subject matter. One or more trails may be created which teach or address the topic or question broadly with a general framework or address the topic or question through a very specialized or focused look.

The trails may utilize URLs or all or portions of documents websites videos pictures files or similar media found online. The trails and the associated information data and files provide information processes and sequences to learn the topic or answer the question. For example the trails may be personalized and algorithmically generated for each user profile utilizing 1 implicit peer curation 2 learning preferences mapped between how individuals like to learn or receive information and how sites teach or offer information and 3 sequenced and shaped tangents forks branches colors and other visual cues of conceptual and pedagogical relationships of the subject matter. Implicit peer curation means that actions such as rating cloning and pruning of user peers may be used to score rate filter and otherwise shape the pool of potential trails and trail nodes e.g. urls documents etc . The trail may also be generated utilizing learning preferences maps semantic analysis media type analysis and other factors of the implemented logic. Algorithmically generated trails are similarly available for cloning editing rating commenting direct curation and other forms of interaction.

The trails may be aggregated from learning preferences semantic analysis or media type analysis into a map of characteristics for filtering matching and peering. The aggregation of information may be utilized for both trail creating and teaching a system for sharing and so forth.

The front end clients may include any number of electronic devices applications and communications and computing services. In one embodiment the front end clients may be represented by mobile devices web browser and data services . For example the front end clients may include cell phones PDAs tablets personal computers mP3 devices e readers terminals web browsers e.g. Internet Explorer Firefox Chrome Safari Opera etc. websites social networks or other similar devices applications logic or communication services.

The front end clients may be a computing or communications device or the operating system application or software for performing and executing programs and instructions and accessing the Internet . However the front end clients may be any computing or communications devices suitable for communicating with the Internet or wireless networks through a network connection. Wired connections of the online environment may include fiber optics coaxial cables wires telephone cables or other wired networks suitable for communication over a hard wired connection with any of the components of the online environment .

The front end clients may also communicate with the wireless network using communications protocols such as time division multiple access TDMA code division multiple access CDMA global systems for mobile GSM communications personal communications systems PCS WiFi WLAN WiMAX or other frequently used cellular and data communications protocols and standards. For example mobile devices may include cellular phones smart phones e.g. iPhones Android devices etc Blackberry devices personal digital assistances PDA mp3 players laptops evolution data optimized EDO cards multi mode devices and other wireless communication devices and elements.

Communications within the online environment may occur on any number of networks which may include wireless networks data or packet networks cable networks satellite networks private networks publicly switched telephone networks PSTN the Internet or other types of communication networks. A communications network is infrastructures for sending and receiving messages and signals according to one or more designated formats standards and protocols. The networks of the online environment may represent a single communication service provider or multiple communications services providers. The features services and processes of the illustrative embodiments may be implemented by one or more elements of the online environment independently or as a networked implementation. The online environment may further include any number of hardware and software elements that may not be shown in the example of .

The web server and the search indexing server jointly server may represent one or more servers. In one embodiment the server may be described in terms of presentation framework and database. For example the server may represent a server farm or cloud network accessible to the front end clients . In one embodiment the web server is a computing device composed of hardware and software that manages the creation and delivery of trails through the Internet and wireless network . For example the web server may deliver web pages including trails to the front end clients upon request. The trails may be delivered as HTML XML JSON and other formats or standards and may include multiple forms of static and interactive content such as images stylesheets and scripts. The components of the web server represent standalone or integrated programs software applications and instructions that may be stored in one or more memories and executed by one or more processing units of the web server to implement the systems and methods herein described.

The template engine is software that that processes presentation templates and content information to produce online content and documents including trails. For example the content may be generated and managed by PHP HTML CSS JavaScript or other similar languages or libraries. The web template is a tool that separates content from presentation for mass production of online content and documents. The template engine may present any number of trails templates in interactive forms to generate trails. For example the template engine may be a twig template engine for optimizing PHP code. PHP is a general purpose server side scripting language originally designed for Web development to produce dynamic Web pages. PHP may be deployed on the web server . Likewise Ruby Python active server pages ASP or other server side script engines and languages may be utilized in the web server .

The application programming interfaces APIs are a defined set of hypertext transfer protocol HTTP request messages along with a definition of the structure of response messages which is usually in an Extensible Markup Language XML or JavaScript Object Notation JSON format. The APIs may decouple the request and response data from any client or device and or platform program system or combination thereof. Thus the APIs allows for flexible and open interaction between the trails system and clients devices platforms and systems beyond typical web and mobile browser examples. For example an analysis system may be constructed and utilized which not requiring a trail Request or user visualization consumes the APIs simply to extract trending tag and tote data from the trail API response object and integrates it with user demographic information contained in the user API response object to generate reports on trending interests within user demographics.

The web framework or application framework is software utilized by developers and other parties to implement the standard structure of one or more applications for specific development environments such as those utilized by the Web server . The web frameworks may promote a standard structure for the APIs . The web framework e.g. Symfony2 utilizing PHP may also define the underlying code structure for trails related applications such that an application may inherit pre existing classes in the web framework .

The object relational mapper is software that converts data between different or incompatible type systems in object oriented programming languages. For example the object relational mapper may be utilized to generate a virtual object database. In one embodiment the object relational mapper may translate the logical representation of the objects in the trail into a form that may be stored in the RDBMS . As a result objects may be stored and retrieved when requested by any of the front end clients .

The RDBMS is a database management system that controls the creation maintenance and use of a database in which the data for the trails is stored in tables and the relationships among the data of the trails e.g. nodes links videos images etc. are also stored in tables. The RDBMS may utilize any number of relational models or object models. For example MySQL may be utilized in conjunction with a Linux Apache MySQL Perl PHP Python LAMP web server. Data and relationships may also be stored in non relational systems often called No SQL such as Mongo or Couch DB.

The web crawler and indexing applications are programs that browse the World Wide Web or Internet in an automated manner or standardized fashion. In one embodiment the web crawler and indexing applications create a copy of all visited websites and pages for later processing by the search engine . The web crawler and indexing applications may also index the downloaded pages to provide faster and more effective searches of Internet content including trails and a trails specific website. For example the web crawler and indexing applications may work in conjunction with the search engine to collect parse and store data to facilitate fast and accurate information retrieval particularly relating to trails and notes. The web crawler and indexing applications may utilize any number of known web crawling and indexing applications as are known in the art.

The web crawler and indexing applications may be utilized to check links or validate nodes and code of the trails. For example the web crawler and indexing applications may periodically look up the nodes of the trail to ensure that the nodes are still valid. If the nodes are no longer valid or broken the web crawler and indexing applications may automatically retrieve new links to the same content or may suggest that the user update the trail. For example the web crawler and indexing applications may suggest updates to nodes that are no longer accurate or correct.

The custom programming is custom software utilized to adapt the features and functionality of the search indexing server for generating and managing trails and the related analysis and mapping logic and algorithms. The custom programming may utilize languages such as PHP Python or other languages.

The search engine may be utilized to search for information on the Internet as well as the Web server . The information may include trails web pages images information and other types of files or content. The search engine may include any number of publicly available or private search engines that perform searches on demand or in real time such as those engines produced by Google Microsoft Yahoo and other similar companies.

In one embodiment a uniform resource locator URL is provided by a user through a tracker interface . For example utilizing a web browser or application the user may navigate to or select a webpage. The content or resources associated with the URL may be retrieved from the Internet through the proxy server . For example the proxy server may request the URL and process the content. The proxy server may rewrite local references in the content to be absolute so that scripts looks and formats of the content e.g. cascading style sheets are retained when the webpage is rendered in the tracker interface . Additionally session variables may be set to allow manipulation of the nodes in the trail while being built. For example the user may manipulate the nodes utilizing the viewing interface .

When tracking is finished a builder may process the session variables into a trail. In one embodiment the builder may set default parameters such as shape sequence draft publish state and more. An editor interface may be automatically launched once the tracker session and trail build is complete. The editor interface may allow the user to refine the trail nodes and associated information as are subsequently described. The editor interface may also allow launching functions for saving publishing sharing and playing the trail. In another embodiment once the trail build is complete an overview page maybe launched which may contain an interface to allow editing trail information such as title and description. The overview page may also be utilized to launch functions such as saving publishing sharing or playing the trail.

Once the editing is completed a database is updated to reflect the changes to the trail. The database may create logs for analysis and building profiles. The viewing interface may be utilized to display a trail overview page and an associated public URL associated with the page e.g. trails.by mario how to diagram trails . A trail node interface may also have a public URL an API representation and widget embed code. The trail node interface may allow or retrieve content associated with the nodes and direct navigation to the different nodes of the trail. The viewing interface may allow the user to play the trail by launching the trail node pages e.g. trails.by Mario how to diagram trails 1 trails.by mario how to diagram trails 2 etc .

In one embodiment the user may perform any number of activities during the tracking or playing state of a trail. In one embodiment the tracker interface may cURLs cURL is a computer software project providing a library and command line tool for transferring data using various protocols the content of a page and rewrite it so that the trail management system may track their movements thru the web. The cURLed rewritten content is presented to the user in an i framed environment wherein the trail management system manages the i frame for obtaining the click and link data emanating from the user s interactions typically in a foreign i frame that data is not available to the outer hosting environment. 

In another embodiment the tracker interface may track clicks when playing trails by collapsing or combining tracker and player interfaces into one user experience. For example when a user plays a trail the user is navigated thru cURLed content re presented in the i frame of the trail management system such that the node link clicks i.e. not navigation clicks thru the upper navigation bar s previous next buttons or clicks on the trail visualization are tracked and logged to the database for analysis and for generating automatic clones of the source trail with new navigation appended as tangents and branches to produce automatically cloned trails.

The nodes of each of the trails and may display content associated with each of the nodes according to interactive or non interactive triggers as configured by the preferences of the trail center. As a result a user may be presented a preview before the user view and navigate the trails and at his her leisure and convenience.

For example with regard to the user may navigate the trail by selecting a node such as nodes or . The trail may be configured to show linear information or nonlinear information. For example the nodes of trail that extend along a straight line may represent linear information. Nodes and may represent tangential information that the user still finds important enough to share but that may deviate from the original question or topic process. Alternatively the nodes and may represent alternative trails or pathways that may be useful to other users.

In one embodiment trail may be generated in response to a request. For example a user may request information on a website such as How do you remove red eyes in Photoshop How do you successfully grow tomatoes in Kansas City or What exercises are best for lower back injuries In one embodiment the trail title may be the original request. In another embodiment the trail title may be specified by a user but the original request may also be listed. The trail may also include a description that provides a summary or overview of the information addressed by the trail . In one embodiment the trail may include tags which are user supplied keywords used in indexing searching relating suggesting and filtering trails and nodes. The individual nodes of a trail may also have tags which are user supplied for that node in that trail. For example the CNN website might be a node in multiple trails with tags news politics in Trail A and world news sports in Trail B. A node s tags are used in indexing searching suggesting filtering and relating nodes and trails. A combination of trail and node tags in conjunction with other factors may also be used for algorithmically generated trails.

A session variable may be created in response to a user selecting to Propose a Trail as an Answer when viewing a request. The session variable carries the request tags into the next trail edited allowing the user to make a new trail or edit an existing trail. Shared tags among trails and requests may be connected for better information exchange and increased relevance in searching and filtering.

In one embodiment once the trail is loaded for editing. The system first checks for tags in a session variable and or from a database. Next the system finds requests which share tags in tags may be scored by count and semantic values . Next the system allows the user to choose the trails that best answers the request.

Once a request is received from a user to save the trail the trail and request may be saved in a database. Next the system sends a notification to the system and request owner that the trail has been proposed as an answer so that the requestor may play the trail and may select to have the trail show up on the request s page as the best answer trail.

Once the user is signed in any number of editing functions may be performed or required within or separate from an editing mode or interface. For example the title description and tags associated with different nodes may be set. The user may alter the shape and sequence of the nodes in the trail . The user may also set the status of the trail between draft or published e.g. the draft trail is only visible to the owner a published trail may be available to the public free or paid or public or private. In addition the user may add notes or tags to nodes. The user may add or delete nodes and URLs and files from a content library. The user may also select to connect or associated the trail with a trail request or questions. The user may also delete the trail altogether.

As previously described the nodes may have no defined sequence. In one embodiment the trail may be assigned a sequence based on time of generation. In another embodiment the user may set a sequence for the trail by selecting the nodes in an order the nodes are to be labeled or sequenced. For example the nodes may display numbers indicating a sequence selected by the user. The nodes of the trail may be linear non linear spirally positioned divergent based on shapes or randomly positioned. The user may also set the status of the trail between draft or published e.g. the draft trail is only visible to the owner a published trail may be available to the public . In addition the user may add notes or tags to nodes. The user may add or delete nodes and URLs and files from a content library. The user may also select to connect or associated the trail with a trail request or questions. The user may also delete the trail altogether.

As previously described the nodes may have no defined sequence. In one embodiment the trail may be assigned a sequence based on time of generation. In another embodiment the user may set a sequence for the trail by selecting the nodes in an order the nodes are to be labeled or sequenced. For example the nodes may display numbers indicating a sequence selected by the user.

Referring now to the trail may include multiple nodes positioned as selected by user. The trail may also include one or more divergent paths or additional nodes. The trail illustrates how the nodes may be positioned nonlinearly by the user.

Referring now to the trail illustrates nodes and that may vary in size shape and color. The nodes and vary in size shape and appearance. In one embodiment the size shape color or appearance of the nodes and may correspond to the information stored in the node. The nodes and may be automatically selected or selected by the user.

If the user is not signed in or the trail is not associated with the user the trail may be cloned and a trail editing function displayed.

The trail overview interface may allow the user to start the trail . The user may select a node or thumbnail to see additional information such as a clickable URL the node s title notes and tags. The trail overview interface may also be utilized to add a comment share a trail through a social network e.g. Facebook twitter e mail code and sentence etc. view statistics e.g. shares clones ratings etc. flag the trail for notifying an administrator rate the trail utilizing a scale numeric value thumbs up or thumbs down or other similar writing subscribed to tags for the trail or subscribe to the user or curator that generated the trail.

The trail shows the nodes labeled according to various categories. In this example the categories or types of nodes include restaurant hotel and entertainment. In addition the connections between notes may include arrows indicating a defined sequence in order selected by the user. In one embodiment a pop up window thumbnail or other interactive display may be displayed in response to the user selecting a node or hovering over the node . The trail includes various sizes and shapes of nodes. The beginning and ending nodes of the trail may also differ.

In one embodiment the display interface may include options . The options may allow the user to share duplicate rate or reorder the trail or portions of the trail . In one embodiment in response to a selection of one of the options and editing or personalization interface may be displayed to the user to configure permissions notes labels tags or so forth.

Next the system displays a blank a work interface to the user step . In one embodiment the blank work interface is a blank canvas or template that includes no nodes or links may be utilized by the user. The system may require user information or a login during step so that a content library is available to the user during generation of the trail.

Next the system receives user selections of nodes for insertion in the work interface from a content library step . For example the user may utilize a touchscreen of a tablet to drag a node from a content library into their work area to in the process of manually creating a trail. Trails may be created and edited utilizing drag and drop methodologies. For example pictures videos files or URLs may be dragged to associated content with each node. Similarly the nodes may be positioned or reordered by dragging the nodes or other components of the trails.

The process may begin with a determination whether to receive the trail input manually import a trail or clone the trail step . The determination of step may be performed in response to a user selection. For example the user may select to generate a new trail. Alternatively the user may select to import or clone a trail previously created by the user or from another user.

If the system determines to receive the trail input manually the system presents an input form and asks for a URL or search term step . The input form may be a default form for creating a new trail. In another embodiment the input form may be generated based on the user s history or previous selections. In another embodiment the system may receive input from a bookmarklet or other source of code available to a modern web browser. In another embodiment the system may receive input from a CSV file or from a remote system to the API. In some cases the user may prefer to start a trail from scratch. In order to document a process or method from the very beginning. In one embodiment a received URL or search term may be utilized as a first node of the trail.

Next the system may direct the user to a framed version of the URL in response to receiving a URL step . In one embodiment the system may display a tracker mode of the trail generator for viewing the URL and associated content. In one embodiment the system may return an API response confirming a successful reception of trail input.

If the system determines to import a trail during step the system uploads a file selected by user and imports the content to automatically generate the trail step . The file may be a list of URLs or websites that include content utilized to form the trail. The file may also be a document or a number of bookmarks that are compiled together. Any number or types of files may be utilized to import the content utilized to generate the trail.

Next the system may treat the input as a search term in response to the input not being a single URL or set of multiple URLs step . Step may be utilized if the file or input consists of a single URL. Steps and may be performed simultaneously for input that does and does not include URLs.

If the system determines to clone a trail the system clones another user s public trails according to allow parameters and opens the trail for editing step . Many users may encourage sharing and crowd sourcing information for the trails by setting them to be publicly available. Users may also specify parameters for sharing trails. For example trails may be shared with individuals that are associated with a particular group. The parameters may also specify individuals or groups that may not access or clone the user s trail. In addition the parameters may specify notices regarding terms of use for cloning the user s trail. Next the system processes the clone trail according to steps and .

Next the system adds nodes to the trail in response to selections by the user step . The system may be configured to monitor selections steps or navigation by a user and automatically add those steps as nodes to the trail. For example as the user navigates webpages each URL may be added as a note to the trail and may be subsequently reordered removed or otherwise managed.

Next the system may revise the parameters of the trail in response to user selections to edit the trail step . Next the system may display the nodes of the trail for receiving user input to further manage the nodes step . The process of steps may be repeated a number of times until the user is finished or selects to save or post the trail.

Next the system receives a user selection to add a URL to a trail step . In one embodiment the user may select an icon enter a shortcut give a voice command or otherwise select to add the URL to the trail.

Next the system determines whether a trail is in process step . If the system determines the trail is in process the system adds the URL to the existing trail step . Next the system determines whether the user is signed into trails associated website step . If the user is signed into a trails associated website the system assigns the trail to a user identification step . The user identification may be an account user profile username login customer number or other information associated with the user. The trail is assigned to the user so that the user may subsequently access and manage the trail. In addition each new or previously created trail created by this signed in user is associated with the user and controllable by the user.

If the system determines a trail is not in process during step the system creates a new trail and adds the URL to the new trail step . Next the system determines whether the user is signed into a trails associated website step . If the system determines the user is not signed into a trails associated website during step the system creates the trail as a guest trail and the signs a temporary identification to the user step . The system permits the guest to create edit and save the guest trail and indicates the guest trail cannot be published while owned by the guest step . Next the system assigns the guest trail to the user identification in response to the user acquiring a user identification .

Next the system may receive user preferences for the trail step . The user preferences may include parameters selections or feedback that controls the access and management of the trail. The system names the trail in response to a user selection . For example the user may specify Selling a house yourself as the title. In one embodiment the system may provide suggested names based on an original question selections related URLs or other information associated with the trail. The system may even provide and automatically generated name until replaced by the user.

Next the system may create descriptive characteristics of the trail step such as notes tags and description. The descriptive characteristics e.g. name of the nodes may be similarly selected or input by the user. In another embodiment the descriptive characteristics may be automatically completed in response to the associated URL information video or so forth. Next the system may personalize the trail visualization step . During step the user may select or create the shapes colors descriptions nicknames configuration and sequence of the trail nodes interconnecting lines or connectors and other components of the trails. The nodes and connectors may be arranged and rearranged according to user input. The user may also select whether pop up windows or information are displayed and other viewing preferences for the trail. The user may also set parameters to show or hide pop up windows or other visual information for the trail. This information may be exposed automatically according to events i.e. page refresh or relative or absolute time triggers or according to interaction s such as hover focus blur load unload of responses requests or other interaction based triggers.

Next the system makes available the trail according to the user preferences step or system default preferences. During step the system may hierarchically organize the information and data associated with the nodes connectors and other components of the trail. In one embodiment the user preferences may indicate whether the trail is public private paid or otherwise shared. The user preferences may also specify notifications or messages that may be sent to the user and other interested parties in response to the trail being posted. The trail may be posted communicated displayed or otherwise made available.

In one embodiment the trails systems and software herein described may generate revenue primarily as an SAAS offering with membership tiers. The base tier may be free and allows essentially a full experience for guests or signed in users with the core elements of trails requests a user profile and more. In one embodiment two paid tiers for individuals or small organizations offer increasing benefits such as public private options color options increased storage usage analytics and more. A top level tier may include a hosted install for larger organizations or those desiring full control of a unique URL such as sxsw.trails.by complete control of look and feel including site theming and customization featuring and promotion of users requests and trails fine grained access control ability to push trails to users and so forth. However sources of revenue may include advertising data analysis e commerce and referral methods among others known in the art for content based sites and applications.

Next the system determines whether a URL is present in the user input step . If a URL is present in the user input the system redirects the user to a framed version of the URL step . For example the user may view the search results in the Tracker mode of the website or application.

Next the system expands the query and a collection of trails requests users and URLs which match the query from a cache into a search result step . If possible the system retrieves available information including trails requests users and URLs from the cache or other memory of the system. In one embodiment light weight semantic processes are utilized to expand the query and collection of trails and URLs from the cache. For example the system may utilize both off the shelf software packages SOLR NUTCH NLTK etc external APIs and custom code i.e. python to implement semantic expansion.

If the URL is not present in the user input in step the system treats user input as a search term step . As a result the user input may be treated as a URL or as a search term for quickly returning results. The system then expands the query and a collection of trails requests users and URLs which match the query from a cache into a search result step .

Next the system determines whether the search count is acceptable step . In one embodiment the search count may indicate a threshold level or minimum amount of search results that must be returned to meet the search count. In another embodiment relevance may be utilized to determine whether the search count is acceptable. If the search count is not acceptable the system performs an application program interface call to one or more external search engines to retrieve more URLs step . The system may add the search results from the external search engines to the cache if not already present step .

Next the system determines whether the user is signed in step . Step is also performed in response to determining the search count is acceptable during step . During step the user may also be presented with the option to sign in if the user has a username and password for example. If the user is not signed in the system presents the trails requests users and URLs from the search results to the user with various markings and order step .

If the system determines the user is signed in the system scores trails requests users and URLs of the search results based on a sense map step . The sense map is a product of learning preference semantic and media type analysis of the user s history of interactions. During step the search results may be reordered or prioritized based on the sense map to make the results more applicable to the user. Whether the user is signed in may be important because a user profile may be created for each user. The profile may be created and updated based on the trails requests and users the user creates views rates clones and comments upon. The learning preference map media types and semantic analysis of the trails requests users and URLs in the trails nodes notes tags descriptions and other characteristics and are factored into the ranking of search results for the user.

Next the system scores the trails requests users and URLs of the search results based on learning peers of the user step . The search results may also be reordered or prioritized during step in response to the learning peers of the user that may be calculated for the search results. Trails requests users and URLs may also garner ratings from learning peers who are users that are determined to be similar based on learning preference scores. As a result a subset of search results may be generated utilizing the learning preferences. Peer relevance is a set of scores along several dimensions including typical user profiling dimensions such as demographics and geodata and other dimensions created by the system s analysis. The system creates the learning preference map of the learning preferences desired by the user and the learning preferences offered by URLs and nodes e.g. URLs added to the system by user which may have been annotated by notes tags titles and descriptions and by extensions the trails in which those URLs and nodes reside. As a result the system creates and presents search results for trails requests and users that are more relevant to how a user likes to learn.

In one embodiment relevance of trails may be performed utilizing a sense map and peer relevance . The peer relevance may be a module program script logic or executable instructions. The peer relevance may include learning preferences learning peers scores and mapper . The information retrieved or stored by the learning preferences and the learning peers may be utilized to generate the scores which may then be associated with each of the profiles . The scores are generated based on the implicit and explicit actions of the user. The scores may be implicitly affected by cloning creating viewing rating editing pruning of trails and nodes. The scores may also be affected by answering questions in one or more quizzes or survey utilized to determine a learning preferences of the user.

For example a sample question may ask the user to imagine You have a flat tire on your bike. You would learn how to fix it by A. Look for a youtube video or something with diagrams and step by step pictures. B. Just jump right in take off the tire look for some tools. Learn it by doing it. C. Reading up on Wikipedia or a handy Biking Today article. D. Phone a friend who knows about these things and have them tell you how. 

In one embodiment the scores are calculated utilizing a relative strength score rather than an absolute score . For example in four dimensions labeled A B C D representing different kinds of cognitive and media type preferences a user with a score of 12A 11B 11C 6D is peers with a user who scores 6A 4B 4C 3D in that A relative to B relative to C relative to D is the same. As a result a system may generate the profiles and therefore meaningful peer groups after very few questions or other learning preference influencing actions. In addition the total number of peer groupings may be reduced compared to typical absolute scoring methods. For example the standard VARK test with score 0 16 along 4 dimensions requires a user to take a 16question quiz generating the 0 16 score per dimension generating 83 521 distinct peer groups. By converting the meaningful measure to relative strengths the distinct groups may be reduced to 75 which includes codes for equal dimensions such as where B C or A B D or so forth. By using smaller number of peer groups in a relative strength system the learning peers searches may be extended or contracted in search of peer counts with less computation resources.

Every user including guests and members are assigned to one of the profiles . The learning peers specify how closely aligned the profiles are to each other. As previously specified the peer relevance includes multiple dimensions. The learning preferences and the learning peers are utilized to match and map a piece of content i.e. site presentation document etc. to the profiles .

In one embodiment the profiles are created using a learning preference system and method called words actions sounds and pictures WASP . The four dimensions of preference of WASP may be closely related to media types. There are at least 75 permutations of the dimensions of WASP that may be utilized with equal relative weighting such as PAWS SWPA A WS P WA SP and PAS W to name a few.

The profiles may be generated after or during interactions with the site program or add on e.g. http trails.by which may include taking an optional quiz. Analysis of the interactions may include semantic and media type analysis of trails that are rated created walked cloned and so forth.

In one embodiment the profiles may be created using relative strength rather than absolute strength. A user may be assigned to a profile after many different types of interactions rather than only after the user has filled out a mandated questionnaire or survey.

In another embodiment the profiles may be compiled using the VARK method. For example VARK may be a questionnaire that provides users with a profile of their learning preferences. The preferences provide a set of scored dimensions describing the ways that the user wants to take in i.e. learn and give out i.e. teach information.

The illustrative embodiments provide a system method and executable instructions for creating managing and accessing trails. The trails may be generated automatically or based on specific user feedback and instructions. The trails may be navigated randomly or in a sequence to allow accessing users to determine the path or trail that they will make through the provided content. The trails are dynamic and may be accessed via applications websites or other communications and computing functionality. The user profiles allow a user to find and create content that corresponds to the cognitive learning and peers that are most closely associated with him or her. The trails may be utilized to share general knowledge specific processes training or other information visually audibly and tactilely.

The previous detailed description of a small number of embodiments for implementing the invention and is not intended to be limiting in scope. The following claims set forth a number of the embodiments of the invention disclosed with greater particularity.

