---

title: Supporting measurments and feedback for 3D MIMO with data transmission optimization
abstract: Technology is discussed for supporting wireless communication paths from an antenna array with a vertical directional component. Examples reduce training feedback for increased numbers of communication paths by only reporting on a subset of Reference Signals (RSs) provided for various vertical beam configurations. Additional examples reduce feedback with virtual measurements based on a difference between RS measurements. One such measurement can come from full set of RSs for a reference beam configuration and another from a partial set of RSs for an additional beam configuration. Such virtual measurements can also be based on cross correlation for beamforming weights associated with the two configurations. Several examples of preparing and sending measurement reports consistent with Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Long Term Evolution (LTE) standards are discussed. The supporting technology also increases diversity and reduces a power differential between spatially multiplexed layers transmitting a common codeword.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09225478&OS=09225478&RS=09225478
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09225478
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121227
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 667 325 filed Jul. 2 2012.

Data load and throughput requirements placed on Wireless Wide Area Networks WWANs continue to increase. Some reasons for these increases include the ubiquitous use of cell phone technologies and the accelerated adoption of smart phones and tablets with the data and throughput intensive services such as streaming video which these devices offer. Various multiple antenna techniques can be employed in WWAN environments to meet these increasing data and throughput demands with improved spectral efficiency.

For example multiple antenna techniques can be used to achieve advantages such as diversity gain array gain and spatial multiplexing gain. Although some of these advantages have been realized by the implementation of multiple antenna techniques in wireless communication standards large gains indicated by the theoretical potential of various multiple antenna techniques remain. Drawing on this untapped potential can provide one way of meeting increasing demands.

However several obstacles exist to meeting increasing demands with theoretical gains from multiple antenna techniques. For example barring the creation of an entirely new WWAN standard implementation of new multiple antenna techniques takes place within the confines of existing WWAN standards. Implementation can involve meeting demands placed on new techniques imposed by existing wireless standards. Furthermore implementation may involve working around existing infrastructure and limits imposed by existing standards. Therefore harnessing gains from potential multiple antenna techniques requires innovation to determine multiple antenna techniques suitable to existing WWAN standards and to implement such techniques within those standards.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

As an important statement of the generality of examples discussed in this disclosure while the terminology of the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE standard is often used throughout this specification it is not intended to be limiting and there are exceptions in the use of more general terminology in portions of this specification to further communicate this point.

Different terminology for wireless mobile devices is used in different specifications. As used herein a wireless mobile device can be a User Equipment UE or a Mobile Station MS among other possibilities. Throughout this application the terms wireless mobile device UE and MS can be used interchangeably.

As used herein the term transmission point is defined as a wireless communication device in a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN configured to communicate with a plurality of wireless mobile devices located within a geographic region referred to as a coverage area. Different terminologies for transmission points are used in different specifications. Terminology used for different variations of a transmission point can include but are not limited to a Base Station BS an evolved Node B eNodeB a WWAN transmission point a transmission point a wireless transmission point and a WWAN node. The terms are used interchangeably unless otherwise noted. The actual definitions for a BS or eNodeB are provided in their Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.16 and Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP specifications.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example an object that is substantially enclosed would mean that the object is either completely enclosed or nearly completely enclosed. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

By way of preliminary explanation the teachings in this application claim priority to U.S. Provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 667 325 filed Jul. 2 2012 before the official release of Release 11 of the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE standard. However the innovations disclosed in that provisional and in the present application were made under an understanding that certain functionalities would be incorporated into Release 11. The official release of Release 11 does in fact incorporate those functionalities. For purposes of enablement many of those functionalities presupposed by the current disclosure are referenced herein to Release 11 as official released in the third quarter of 2012. The disclosure follows herein below.

To more fully realize potential gains such as diversity gain array gain and spatial multiplexing gain of multiple antenna techniques arrays with greater numbers of antenna elements can be deployed. The additional antennas involved their potential configurations and their capabilities can be integrated within existing wireless communication standards such as the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE standard.

Increased numbers of antenna elements can be used to provide further directionality for a radiation beam used as a communication path. As can be appreciated spatial multiplexing gain can be enhanced in this way. For example an antenna array with a larger number of elements can be configured in two dimensions to create a two dimensional 2D antenna array. The 2D array can form a radiation beam or a communication path that has a pointing capability that can be defined both horizontally and vertically. As can also be appreciated such enhanced spatial multiplexing can be used to enhance Multiple Input Multiple Output MIMO technologies to increase spectral efficiency.

Furthermore antenna elements can be combined in all manner of ways to form one or more virtualized antennas as set forth for example in Release 11 of the 3GPP LTE standards. At a certain level such as from the perspective of a Uniform Equipment UE component elements of a virtualized antenna can be transparent such that multiple antenna elements can appear as one antenna. For example although MIMO technologies have been standardized to support two four and eight antennas as of Release 11 of the 3GPP LTE standards an operator can deploy a physical antenna array with many more than eight antenna elements.

To fully exploit the power associated with the increased spatial diversity and or numbers of communication paths that can be provided by antenna arrays with increased numbers of antenna elements such as 2D arrays accommodations can be made to existing wireless communication standards. Such accommodations can include adjustments to reduce overhead for feedback and or training associated with increased numbers of spatial layers. The accommodations can include utilization of existing reporting resources for channel information associated with the communication paths. Additional accommodations can address the use of codewords for increased numbers of spatial layers.

For example channel information feedback from UEs can be reduced for increased numbers of communication paths by configuring UEs with a selection module. The selection module can select a subset of communication paths such as a particular vertical beam configuration for which to report channel information to the exclusion of other communication paths beam configurations spatial layers. The selection can be made on the basis of measurements of Reference Signals RSs such as Channel State Information Reference Signals CSI RSs in the context of the 3GPP LTE standards corresponding to the various communication paths beam configurations spatial layers. In some examples the selection can be made for example based on a superior spectral efficiency.

As an additional example channel information feedback from UEs can be reduced for increased numbers of communication paths beam configurations spatial layers by reporting virtual measurements. One example of such a virtual measurement can be based on an offset. The offset can be calculated based on a difference between a reference RSs for a reference beam configuration and an additional RS for an additional beam configuration. The reference RSs can be configured for a full set of antenna ports where each antenna port can comprise a possible virtual antenna configuration at a first beam configuration. The additional RS can come from a subset of additional RSs configured for a subset of antenna ports from the full set of antenna ports for the additional vertical beam configuration. The offset can be used to calculate a virtual measurement for the full set of antenna ports of the additional vertical beam configuration without taking measurements for all of the antenna ports of the additional second beam configuration.

A second example of a virtual measurement can be based on a cross correlation value between two vertical beamforming weights for two vertical beam configurations. The beamforming weights for the first vertical beam configuration can be communicated to a UE that calculates the cross correlations. The UE can then determine beamforming weights based on a measurement of a set of additional RSs for a subset of antenna ports for the additional vertical beam configuration.

Channel information can be reported from the UE back to the eNodeB providing the RSs from which the channel information was measured. For examples consistent with the 3GPP LTE standards the report can be a Channel State Information Reference Signal CSI RS report that can comprise various CSI message types. These various Channel State Information CSI message types can be tailored to a number of antenna ports and or a Physical Uplink Control CHannel PUCCH type as discussed below.

In some examples the multiple spatial layers that can be generated by increasing antenna elements in an array can result in a need to share codewords for DownLink DL data transmissions such as Physical Downlink Shared CHannel PDSCH transmissions consistent with LTE standards. This concern can have particular force in the context of the 3GPP LTE standards where only two codewords are available. However an energy differential between spatial communication paths or layers sharing a common codeword can be reduced by multiplying a column vector carrying symbols from those layers by a rotation matrix. By multiplying by the rotational matrix the symbols from the common codeword can be combined to equalize transmission energy. Additional spatial diversity can also be generated for the layers by multiplying by a Cyclic Delay Diversity CDD matrix. A more detailed discussion follows below.

Three arrows emanating from the array in different directions two dashed arrows to the right and left and a solid arrow normal to the plane of the array depict the directionality that the array can create for communication paths with respect to a single horizontal dimension. The array can be mounted on a transmission point such as an eNodeB with a corresponding coverage area . The horizontal directivity provided by the array is depicted by three different beam direction geometries from left to right and . A beam direction geometry can depict a region with respect to the transmission point where a corresponding signal is highest but the corresponding signal may be present in other regions as well. The curved arrow indicates that the three different beam direction geometries belong to a continuum of different possibilities.

Three arrows emanating from the array in different directions two dashed arrows above and below a solid arrow normal to the plane of the array depict the directionality that the array can create for communication paths with respect to a vertical dimension. The array can be mounted on a transmission point such as an eNodeB with a corresponding coverage area

The vertical directivity provided by the array is depicted by two different beam direction geometries a first beam direction geometry closer to the transmission point and a second beam direction geometry further away. As before a beam direction geometry can depict region with respect to the transmission point where a corresponding signal is highest but the corresponding signal can be present in other regions as well. The curved arrow indicates that the two different beam direction geometries belong to a continuum of different possibilities.

Although vertical elements of the array allow for vertical directionality as depicted in the horizontal elements also make horizontal directionality possible as also described with respect to . Therefore the communications can be directed in two dimensions to point toward a location in three dimensional space. The extra dimension can greatly increase the number of possibilities for directionality allowing for increased numbers of communication paths beam configurations or layers for spatial multiplexing. Throughout this application the number of communication paths beam configurations or layers for spatial multiplexing can be referred to as the rank. The spatial diversity can be used to further approach theoretical possibilities for MIMO. The use of a 2D array in this way is referred to in this application as Three Dimensional 3D MIMO.

The ability to vertically tilt beams communication paths afforded by a 2D array can be used to vertically tilt beams communication paths to point to near and far users respectively. However such vertically tilted beams communication paths require support. For example coherent WWANs such as a WWAN consistent with the 3GPP LTE standards rely on channel measurement reports to obtain channel knowledge. This channel knowledge can be used to insure communications over vertically tilted beams communication paths and to train and optimize those vertically tilted beams communication paths.

The first vertical beam configuration can be pointed downward to a region in which a first UE is located. The more outward region of the second vertical beam configuration can be more directed toward a second UE . As before a beam direction geometry can depict region with respect to the transmission point where a corresponding signal is highest but the corresponding signal may be present in other regions as well. Study indicates that two vertical beam configurations can provide marked gains. However a single vertical beam configuration and more than two vertical beam configurations are consistent with many examples.

Communications can be supported over the first vertical beam configuration and the second vertical beam configuration by coherent channel estimation techniques that can rely on Reference Signals RSs known to the first UE and the second UE and transmitted by the eNodeB . A UE can make a measurement of a RS and report back the measurement to the eNodeB to provide channel information. In examples consistent with the 3GPP LTE standards the RSs can comprise CSI RSs.

For example the eNodeB can configure multiple RS CSI RS resources. An RS CSI RS resource can be vertically beamformed with a beamforming vector. Different RS CSI RS resources within the multiple RS CSI RS resources can be configured to be vertically beamformed differently with different beamforming vectors. With respect to for example one or more RS CSI RS resources can be configured for the first vertical beam configuration and one or more RS CSI RS resources can be configured for the second vertical beam configuration

Although the beam direction geometry of the first vertical beam configuration is depicted as being directed to the location of the first UE and the beam direction geometry of the second vertical beam configuration is depicted as being directed toward the second UE as stated transmissions corresponding to both vertical beam configurations can be received throughout the portion of the coverage area corresponding to the eNodeB . Therefore the first UE and or the second UE can report measurements for both the first vertical beam configuration and the second vertical beam configuration . Similarly the first UE the second and or additional UEs can report measurements for greater numbers of vertical beam configurations.

For example a UE can be configured with a reporting instance such as a CSI RS report resource per RS CSI RS resource to provide information for multiple vertical beam configurations such as the first beam configuration and the second vertical beam configuration in and potentially all vertical beam configurations. Depending on the example the Interference Measurement Resources IMRs for multiple CSI RS reporting instances can be the same or different. Configuring a UE with multiple reporting instances for multiple different beam configurations albeit not specifically vertical beam configurations is already supported within the specification of Release 11 of the 3GPP LTE standards. However one drawback for this scheme is the CSI feedback overhead increases linearly with the number of semi static beamformed RS CSI RS resources for which a UE is configured with a reporting instance.

In some examples in order to assist the network in the configuration of static beams in relation to UEs for measurements of RS CSI RS resources one or more UEs can provide reports such as Reference Signal Received Power RSRP and Reference Signal Received Quality RSRQ messages in the 3GPP LTE standards. Such reports can be used to adjust one or more vertical beam configurations to better coincide with a distribution of UEs.

The first UE and the second UE are depicted in the same locations relative to the eNodeB in and . Also the first vertical beam configuration is tilted in relation to the first UE in the same way in and . However the relative tilting of the second vertical beam configuration with respect to the second UE has been optimized in relation to the second UE so that the second vertical beam configuration is tilted to be centered upon the second UE.

To accomplish such an optimization an iterative process can be used whereby one or more UEs within a UE distribution provide reports of RS CSI RS measurements such as RSRP and RSRQ messages. One or more vertical beam configurations can then be adjusted by a predetermined amount toward or away from the eNodeB . One or more additional RS CSI RS resources can then be provided and one or more measurements made. This process can continue until one or more vertical beam configurations are optimized with respect to the relevant UE distribution. Vertical beam configurations can be optimized in other ways as well.

The first vertical beam configuration is directed downward near the eNodeB and toward the first UE . The second vertical beam configuration can be directed outward from the eNodeB to three additional UEs a second UE a third UE and a fourth UE . For various reasons it can commonly be the case that vertical beam configurations directed further away from an eNodeB can have larger loads than vertical beam configurations directed closer to an eNodeB. For example as can be appreciated from the angle of incidence of the second vertical beam configuration can result in the beam direction geometry of the second vertical beam covering an increased swath of the portion of the coverage area corresponding to the eNodeB . can be used to explain an additional reason for higher potentials for higher loads for vertical beam configurations directed away from an eNodeB.

The lower right hand quadrant can be considered to pertain to the portion of the portion of the corresponding coverage area depicted with respect to . Within the lower right hand quadrant the first UE is depicted as located within a first ring depicted with diagonal cross hatching and corresponding to a vertical swath from the eNodeB that can be illuminated by the beam direction geometry of the first vertical beam configuration as rotated around the eNodeB . Also the second UE the third UE and the fourth UE are depicted as located within a second ring depicted with diagonal cross hatching in the opposite direction and corresponding to a vertical swath that can be illuminated by the beam direction geometry of the second vertical beam configuration with a similar rotation.

As can be appreciated from the equation for the area of a ring A r r the greater the distances from the eNodeB the greater the area in which UEs can be disposed where the difference between the two radii of two rings are equal. This result will hold true when the rings are subdivided into quadrants as in . Furthermore for the reason discussed above the distances between the radii corresponding to vertical beam configurations further from an eNodeB will be greater do to the larger footprints illuminated by the corresponding smaller angles of incidence. Therefore vertical beam configurations directed further away from an eNodeB are likely to experience larger loads that can lead to an unbalance.

By increasing the number of vertical beam configurations imbalances can be reduced. As can be appreciated the number of UEs within the beam direction geometry of any given vertical beam configuration has been reduced from five to two in . However the additional numbers of vertical beam configurations also can result in burdensome levels of overhead.

For example each vertical beam configuration can include one or more RS CSI RS resources specific to that vertical beam configuration. Vertical beam configurations can add even more RS CSI RS resources to those previously existing for beam configurations previously limited to a horizontal domain. Additionally each UE can be configured with a different reporting resource for each RS CSI RS resource. Although only a small number of UEs have been depicted in the previous figures larger numbers of UEs are consistent with many examples. Furthermore additional overhead can be involved during iterative training processes similar to those discussed above.

The largest impact on the size of overhead in providing channel information feedback can be the number of CSI RS resources configured by an eNodeB. Where the burden of such overhead becomes too big the number of UE reports can become compressed. For example UEs can be configured with fewer numbers of reporting instances than RS CSI RS resources transmitted in the various beam configurations. Although UEs can continue to receive multiple RS CSI RS resources for multiple different beam configuration they can limit their reports to a subset of such RS CSI RS resources. UEs can continue to make measurements of the multiple RS CSI RS resources that they receive. However UEs can select a subset of these measurements for which to respond with a channel information report.

For purposes of illustrating an example reference can be made to . The first vertical beam configuration and the second vertical beam configuration can both be configured with RS CSI RS resources. Although the first UE is centered within the beam direction geometry of the first vertical beam configuration and the second UE is centered within the beam direction geometry of the second vertical beam configuration as explained previously transmission from the first vertical beam configuration and the second vertical beam configuration can be received by both the first UE and the second UE. Both UEs can make measurements of RS CSI RS resources configured for both vertical beam configurations.

However to reduce overhead the first UE and the second UE can each select a subset of the RS CSI RS resources corresponding to either the first vertical beam configuration or the second vertical beam configuration for which to provide a report. By selecting one beam configuration or the corresponding subset of RS CSI RS resources as reporting CSI RS resource multiplication of CSI RS reports for the multiple CSI RSs resources can be avoided by leaving a set of non selected CSI RS resources unreported. In the example depicted in the first UE can choose to report on the RS CSI RS resource s associated with the first vertical beam configuration. The second UE can choose to report on the RS CSI RS resource s associated with the second vertical beam configuration.

The first UE and the second UE can make their selections based on measurements of the RS CSI RS resources for the two vertical beam configurations . In some examples the decision can be made on the basis of vertical beam configuration demonstrates a superior spectral efficiency. However any other metric or combination of metrics based on measurements of beam configuration transmissions can serve as a basis for making one or more selections by a particular UE.

In many examples the vertical beam configurations corresponding to the multiple CSI RS resources can be transparent to UEs and selections can be based solely on values derived from measurements. A UE can then prepare a report on channel information such as a CSI RS report based on a selected measurement. The UE can then send the report back to the eNodeB associated with the vertical beam configuration measured and selected by the UE. In some examples the report can include a CSI RS resource index for corresponding to the vertical beam configuration selected by the UE.

After an eNodeB receives a report including for example a recommended CSI RS index the eNodeB can determine one or more vertical beamforming weights. In examples where reports indicate that there are much fewer users in the cell center than the edge the beam pointing to the center may be allocated with less RS CSI RS resources which can correspond to an allocation of fewer antenna ports at that vertical beam configuration. In certain examples different vertical beam configurations can be configured with different RS CSI RS resources by being configured with different repetition periods. In some examples vertical beam configuration determinations can be made at a network level as opposed to at an individual eNodeB.

Although the preceding discussion focuses on two vertical beam configurations selections can be made from any number of vertical beam configurations. Also selections can be made to report on a subset of vertical beam configurations with more than one vertical beam configuration. Furthermore the preceding techniques can be applied to beam configurations generally including to horizontal beam configurations not just for vertical beam configurations.

Representations of a 2D array deployed at the eNodeB are depicted in . Three instances of the 2D array are depicted in terms of transmissions for three different relationships between antenna ports beam configurations and RS CSI RS reports. The three different transmission relationships correspond to traditional approaches for providing channel information feedback for the first vertical beam configuration and the second vertical beam configuration and new approaches that reduce the amount of corresponding overhead. For each of these three relationships the 2D array is depicted with sixty four antenna elements 8 8 64 . However other numbers of antenna elements are possible. Multiple antenna elements can be configured to comprise a single virtual antenna.

A virtual antenna can correspond to an antenna port. Multiple antenna elements combined within a virtual antenna or antenna port can be transparent to UEs deployed within the partial coverage area such that the multiple antenna elements of the antenna port appear to the UEs as a single antenna. Any combination of antenna elements can be combined to form a virtual antenna or antenna port. In examples similar to the one depicted in each of the eight columns of the 2D array can comprise an antenna port e.g. X X X X X X X X. However in some examples antenna ports can include multiple columns one or more rows portions of one or more rows portions of one or more columns all columns or any other combination.

Multi beam antenna technologies such as by way of example and not limitation phased array multi beam antenna technologies which can but need not necessarily employ one or more Butler matrices can be used to increase a number of simultaneous beam configurations. Therefore the same antenna elements can be reused to create additional antenna ports configured for simultaneous but differing beam configurations. Hence the eight columns of the 2D array can also be used to create eight additional antenna ports namely X X X X X X X Xfor the second vertical beam configuration.

Channel response differences between antenna ports due for example to spatial and or spectral diversity can be addressed by providing individual antenna ports with RS CSI RS resources. Each antenna port can be configured to transmit its own RS CSI RS resource. Additional antenna ports can be configured with additional RS CSI RS resources to allow for multiple different beam configurations.

Under traditional approaches for providing channel information feedback a different RS CSI RS resource can be provided for each antenna port. For example the eight antenna ports X X X X X X X X over which the first vertical beam configuration in can be transmitted can each have a RS CSI RS resource. Each of the antenna elements in the first instance of the 2D array for the first vertical beam configuration has been filled in to indicate that each of the eight antenna ports carries a different RS CSI RS resource.

With respect to the second instance of the 2D array additional antenna ports can be provided for transmission of different beam configurations such as the eight additional antenna ports X X X X X X X X over which the second vertical beam configuration in is transmitted. As with the first vertical beam configuration a different RS CSI RS resource can be provided for each new antenna port for the second beam configuration for providing channel information feedback consistent with traditional approaches. As can be appreciated sixteen RS CSI RS resources would be involved in the feedback overhead under such traditional approaches and this number could further be multiplied for additional beam configurations.

With respect to the vertical beam configurations depicted in through each of these vertical beam configurations can similarly be configured for multiple antenna ports. Therefore each of these vertical beam configurations can entail multiple RS CSI RS resources for the various antenna ports configured for a vertical beam configuration. As discussed one way of reducing feedback overhead can involve only providing reports of channel measurements for RS CSI RS resources for a subset of the total beam configurations.

However additional new approaches can be applied to reduce overhead caused by such a large number of RS CSI RS resources not only be reducing a number of reports on RS CSI RS resources but by reducing the number of RS CSI RS resources themselves. According to examples consistent with such approaches RS CSI RS resources can be provided for a full set of antenna ports for a first vertical beam configuration. Conversely for one or more additional beam configurations one or more additional RS CSI RS resources can be provided for a partial subset of a full set of antenna ports.

To a certain extent the two different beamforming weights applied to the different antenna ports to create the two beam configurations can explain differences in the channel responses for the two different configurations. Inasmuch as the difference in vertical beamforming weights constitutes a dominate common factor in determining differences in channel responses between antenna ports for two different beam configurations a difference between two antenna ports corresponding to two different beam configurations can be used to determine differences for other antenna ports pertaining to the two beam configurations.

For example with respect to each of the antenna ports configured for the first vertical beam configuration antenna ports X X X X X X X X can transmit an RS CSI RS resource specific to that antenna port. Again therefore reference is made to the first instance of the 2D array wherein antenna elements corresponding to the various columns that make up the eight aforementioned antenna ports are filled in indicating that each of the eight antenna ports provides its own RS CSI RS resource. Since each antenna port has its own RS CSI RS resource channel information feedback can be provided for each antenna port.

Conversely a third instance of the 2D array is depicted with only a single column of antenna elements filled in consistent with the new approaches described above. The single column of antenna elements that has been filled in corresponds to antenna port X as configured for the second vertical beam configuration. These antenna elements are filled in to indicate that an RS CSI RS resource is provided for antenna port X corresponding to the first column of antenna elements in the 2D array. An RS CSI RS resource is not provided for the remaining antenna ports namely antenna ports X X X X X X X which are also configured for the second vertical beam configuration. Therefore the columns of antenna elements corresponding to antenna ports X X X X X X Xare not filled in.

Each antenna port of the first vertical beam configuration has an analogous antenna port configured for the second vertical beam configuration sharing antenna elements from a common column of antenna elements shared by the two antenna ports. Antenna ports Xand Xshare column Xand Xshare column Xand Xshare column Xand Xshare column Xand Xshare column Xand Xshare column Xand Xshare column and Xand Xshare column . The shared antenna elements suggest that the differing vertical beam directions can account for the dominant differences between pairs of antenna ports with respect to channel information. However antenna elements need not be shared for differing vertical beam directions to account for these major differences.

A pair of RS CSI RS resources on two different antenna ports corresponding respectively to the first vertical beam configuration and the second vertical beam configuration such as Xand X can be measured. An offset beamforming gain c can be calculated by taking the difference between measurements for the pair of RS CSI RS resources. Since the different vertical beam directions can be predominantly responsible for the offset the same offset beamforming gain can also account for differences at other antenna ports. In some embodiments the offset beamforming gain can be measured in decibels dBs . However the offset beamforming gain can be measured in other ways based on differences between measurements and can take positive or negative values.

Hence with RS CSI RS resources for a full set of antenna ports for one beam configuration to account for differences between pairs of antenna ports and a single RS CSI RS resource for a second beam configuration a virtual measurement can be generated. The virtual measurement can provide information for a channel response for the second beam configuration for the full set of antenna ports or any subset thereof even though just one RS CSI RS resource has been provided for the second beam configuration.

For example with respect to a virtual measurement for the entire second vertical beam configuration in terms of c the offset beamforming gain calculated as the difference between measurements of the pair of RS CSI RS resources for antenna port X with respect to the first vertical beam configuration and antenna port X with respect to the second vertical beam configuration . Such a virtual measurement for the second vertical beam configuration v can be calculated as v X c or X X c X c X c X c X c X c X c where X X X X X X X and Xcan be measured with respect to the first vertical beam configuration.

In some examples RS CSI RS resources can be provided for one beam configuration for all possible antenna ports such as ports X X X X X X X and Xfor the second vertical beam configuration . A virtual measurement can then be provided for any number of antenna ports for any number of different additional beam configurations vertical or otherwise as long as at least one RS CSI RS resource is provided for at least one antenna port for at least one additional beam configuration. As a result feedback overhead can be greatly reduced not just in terms of channel measurement reports based on RS CSI RS resources but also in terms of the underlying RS CSI RS resources.

For example with n 1 RS CSI RS resources and with n 1 reports where n is equal to a maximum possible number of antenna ports for a possible beam configuration a virtual measurement can be made for any number of antenna ports for a second possible beam configuration. In the example depicted in n 8 because there are only eight potential antenna ports. Therefore with nine RS CSI RS resources a report can be made for any combination of the sixteen antenna ports used for the two different vertical beam configurations.

The first UE and or the second UE can receive from the eNodeB CSI RS resources configured for a full set of antenna ports X X X X X X X X for a reference vertical beam configuration . The first UE and or the second UE can also receive a set of additional CSI RSs resources configured for at least one subset of a full set of antenna ports e.g. X for at least one additional vertical beam configuration . One or more UEs can measure reference channel response information for the reference RS CSI RS resources and additional channel response information for the set of additional RS CSI RS resources.

The UEs can then calculate an offset beamforming gain between the reference vertical beam configuration and at least one of the set of additional vertical beam configurations with the reference channel response information and the additional channel response information. One or more of the first UE and or the second UE can report channel response information for the reference vertical beam configuration and a unit of virtual channel response information to the eNodeB for any combination of antenna ports for the at least one of the set of additional vertical beam configurations.

Alternatively a UE can simply feedback measurements and leave the calculation of an offset beamforming gain and the compensation procedure to the eNodeB . These approaches can be applied to any number of beam configurations generally including horizontal beam configurations not just vertical beam configurations. Other consistent examples for reducing RS CSI RS resources can be implemented based on cross correlation measurements.

Two different aspects of an 8 8 2D antenna array are depicted corresponding to different relationships between vertical beam configurations antenna ports and RS CSI RS resources in an example where cross correlation can be used to reduce channel measurement overhead. Although the antenna array is depicted as an array of 8 8 elements as can be appreciated other combinations are consistent with additional examples.

As depicted with respect to the first aspect of the 2D antenna array the first vertical beam configuration can be configured for eight antenna ports X X X X X X X X although other numbers of ports are possible where each antenna port corresponds to a column in the array. As indicated by each antenna element of the eight columns corresponding to the eight antenna ports being filled in each antenna port can transmit its own RS CSI RS resource. As depicted with respect to the second aspect of the 2D antenna array the second vertical beam configuration is also configured for eight different antenna ports X X X X X X X X sharing common antenna elements.

However with respect to the second vertical beam configuration RS CSI RS resources are provided for a partial subset of the full set of antenna ports namely the four antenna ports X X X and X. Therefore just the corresponding columns are depicted as filled in. Columns which correspond to the antenna ports for which RS CSI RS resources are not provided on the second vertical beam configuration namely antenna ports X X X and X are left blank.

Although the partial subset of antenna ports with RS CSI RS resources for the second vertical beam configuration includes four elements other numbers of elements are possible. By calculating an offset beamforming gain c with the eight RS CSI RS resources for the first vertical beam configuration and with the four RS CSI RS resources from the second vertical beam configuration channel response information can be calculated for the four antenna ports X X X X for the second vertical beam configuration for which RS CSI RS resources are not provided. Therefore the overhead associated with channel information feedback can be reduced not only in terms of channel information reports but also in terms of the underlying RS CSI RS resources. An additional cross correlation approach for calculating the offset beamforming gain c is discussed below.

As a first step in obtaining the offset beamforming gain c the vertical beamforming weights applied to the antenna ports of the first vertical beam configuration can be transmitted to the UE . In examples consistent with the 3GPP LTE standards the beamforming weights can be transmitted to the UE through Layer 1 Layer 2 and or Radio Resource Control RRC signaling. The beamforming weights can be received by the UE and used by the UE to assist vertical beamforming gain compensation as described below.

Although the UE is not located within the beam direction geometry of the of the second vertical beam configuration the UE is located within the additional reception area associated with a second vertical beam configuration . Therefore the UE can receive the set of CSI RS resources from antenna ports X X X and X corresponding to the second vertical beam configuration .

Based on the set of CSI RS resources corresponding to the second vertical beam configuration the UE can determine beamforming weights for the second vertical beam configuration . In examples consistent with the 3GPP LTE standards beamforming weights can be determined by measuring additional channel response information for the set of additional CSI RSs. Based on the additional channel response information the UE can select an appropriate Precoding Matrix Indicator PMI . The UE can then use a codebook which can be common to a codebook at the eNodeB to determine the beamforming weights as indexed by the PMI for the second vertical beam configuration.

The UE can then calculate a cross correlation between the vertical beamforming weights and the beamforming weights of the best vertical PMI. Once a cross correlation has been calculated the UE can assign the offset beamforming gain c based on the cross correlation. The offset beamforming gain can be assigned to a value equal to the cross correlation between the vertical beamforming weights of the first vertical beam configuration and the beamforming weights of the best vertical PMI for the second CSI RS resource. For example if the cross correlation is 0.5 the offset beamforming gain value can be 3 dB. The UE can assign predetermined offset beamforming gain value where the cross correlation is equal to 0. A non limiting example provided by way of illustration for the offset beamforming gain value can be 10 dB.

Once the offset beamforming gain c is calculated a virtual measurement can be made for one or more of the antenna ports for which an RS CSI RS resource was not provided. The virtual measurement can be made by adding c to the measurement of a corresponding antenna port belonging to the first vertical beam configuration for which an RS CSI RS resource was provided along the lines discussed with respect to the preceding figure. One or more of such measurements can then be reported to the eNodeB by the UE . In certain examples these calculations can be performed by the eNodeB.

In examples consistent with the 3GPP LTE standards the channel information report can be a CSI RS report that can include various CSI message types. For example in a first potential case the CSI RS report can be configured with respect to multiple antenna ports that comprise two or four antenna ports for a PUCCH of mode 1 1. In such examples the CSI RS report to the eNodeB can comprise both a CSI reporting type 5a message and a CSI reporting type 2 message.

The CSI reporting type 5a message can carry an RI and a CSI RS indicator. The CSI RS indicator can recommend a best CSI RS resource based on a superior spectral efficiency. Throughout this application a best CSI RS resource can be correlated with a best beam configuration to which it belongs. The CSI reporting type 5a can be a new CSI reporting type with a name consistent with the name conventions exemplified in Section 7.2.2 of Technical Specification TS 36. 213 of Release 11 of the 3GPP LTE standards. However since the CSI reporting type 5a can be a new CSI reporting type throughout this application the name CSI reporting type 5a can be replaced with an alternative name as long as an RI and a CSI RS indicator are still carried by the message. The CSI reporting type 2 message can be consistent with the CSI reporting type 2 message discussed with respect to Section 7.2.2 of TS 36. 213 of the 3GPP LTE standards for any of Releases 8 through 11. The CSI reporting type 2 message can carry a PMI and a Channel Quality Indicator CQI for the best CSI RS resource recommended by the CSI RS indicator.

Alternatively for examples where the CSI RS report can be configured for two or four antenna ports for a PUCCH of mode 1 1 the CSI RS report to the eNodeB can comprise both a CSI reporting type 3 message and a CSI reporting type 2d message. The CSI reporting type 3 message can be consistent with the CSI reporting type 3 message discussed with respect to Section 7.2.2 of TS 36. 213 of the 3GPP LTE standards for any of Releases 8 through 11. The CSI reporting type 3 message can carry an RI. The CSI reporting type 2d message can carry a CSI RS indicator a PMI and a CQI. The CSI reporting type 2d can be a new CSI reporting type with a name consistent with the name conventions exemplified in Section 7.2.2 of TS 36. 213 of Release 11 of the 3GPP LTE standards. However since the CSI reporting type 2d can be a new CSI reporting type throughout this application the name CSI reporting type 2d can be replaced with an alternative name as long as a CSI RS indicator a PMI and a CQI are still carried by the message.

Also in a second potential case the CSI RS report can be configured with respect to eight antenna ports for a PUCCH of mode 1 1. In such examples the CSI RS report to the eNodeB can comprise both a CSI reporting type 5a message and a CSI reporting type 2c message. The CSI reporting type 5a message can carry an RI and a CSI RS indicator. The CSI RS indicator can recommend a best CSI RS resource based on a superior spectral efficiency. The CSI reporting type 2c message can carry a first PMI a second PMI and CQI for the best CSI RS resource recommended by the CSI RS indicator. The CSI reporting type 2c message can be consistent with the CSI reporting type 2c message discussed with respect to Section 7.2.2 of TS 36. 213 of the 3GPP LTE standards for any of Releases 10 through 11.

Alternatively for examples where the CSI RS report can be configured for eight antenna ports for a PUCCH of mode 1 1 the CSI RS report to the eNodeB can comprise each of a CSI reporting type 3 message a CSI reporting type 2e message and a CSI reporting type 4 message. The CSI reporting type 3 message can carry an RI. The CSI reporting type 2e message can carry a CSI RS indicator a first PMI and a second PMI for the best CSI RS resource recommended by the CSI RS indicator. The CSI reporting type 2e can be a new CSI reporting type with a name consistent with the name conventions exemplified in Section 7.2.2 of TS 36. 213 of Release 11 of the 3GPP LTE standards. However since the CSI reporting type 2e can be a new CSI reporting type throughout this application the name CSI reporting type 2e can be replaced with an alternative name as long as a CSI RS indicator a first PMI and a second PMI for the best CSI RS resource are still carried by the message. The CSI reporting type 4 message can carry a CQI. The CSI reporting type 4 message can be consistent with the CSI reporting type 4 message discussed with respect to Section 7.2.2 of TS 36. 213 of the 3GPP LTE standards for any of Releases 8 through 11.

As an additional alternative not depicted for examples where the CSI RS report can be configured for eight antenna ports for a PUCCH of mode 1 1 the CSI RS report can comprise both a CSI reporting type 5 message and a CSI reporting type 2f message. The CSI reporting type 5 message can carry an RI and a first PMI. The CSI reporting type 5 message can be consistent with the CSI reporting type 5 message discussed with respect to Section 7.2.2 of TS 36. 213 of the 3GPP LTE standards for any of Releases 10 through 11. The CSI reporting type 2f message can carry a CSI RS indicator a second PMI for a best CSI RS resource recommended by the CSI RS indicator and a CQI. The CSI reporting type 2f can be a new CSI reporting type with a name consistent with the name conventions exemplified in Section 7.2.2 of TS 36. 213 of Release 11 of the 3GPP LTE standards. However since the CSI reporting type 2f can be a new CSI reporting type throughout this application the name CSI reporting type 2f can be replaced with an alternative name as long as a CSI RS indicator a second PMI for a best CSI RS resource recommended and a CQI are still carried by the message.

As a further alternative not depicted the CSI RS report can comprise a type 5a message and a CSI reporting type 2b message. The CSI reporting type 5a message can carry an RI a first PMI and a CSI RS indicator. The CSI reporting type 2b message can carry a second PMI for a best CSI RS resource recommended by the CSI RS indicator and a CQI. The CSI reporting type 2b message can be consistent with the CSI reporting type 2b message discussed with respect to Section 7.2.2 of TS 36. 213 of the 3GPP LTE standards for any of Releases 10 through 11.

In some examples in a third potential case the CSI RS report can be configured with respect to multiple antenna ports that comprise two or four antenna ports for a PUCCH of mode 2 1. In such examples the CSI RS report can comprise each of a CSI reporting type 5a message a CSI reporting type 2 message and a CSI reporting type 1 message. The CSI reporting type 5a message can carry an RI and a CSI RS indicator. The CSI RS indicator can recommend a best CSI RS resource based on a superior spectral efficiency. The CSI reporting type 2 message can carry a PMI and a WBCQI for the best CSI RS resource recommended by the CSI RS indicator. The CSI reporting type 1 message can carry a sub band CQI. The CSI reporting type 1 message can be consistent with the CSI reporting type 1 message discussed with respect to Section 7.2.2 of TS 36. 213 of the 3GPP LTE standards for any of Releases 1 through 11.

As an additional alternative not depicted for examples where the CSI RS report can be configured with respect to multiple antenna ports that comprise two or four antenna ports for a PUCCH of mode 2 1 the CSI RS report can comprise each of a CSI reporting type 3 message a CSI reporting type 2d message and a CSI reporting type 1 message. The CSI reporting type 3 message can carry an RI. The CSI reporting type 2d message can carry a CSI RS indicator a PMI and a WBCQI for a best CSI RS resource recommended by the CSI RS indicator. The CSI reporting type 1 message can carry a sub band CQI.

In certain examples not depicted the CSI RS report can be configured for eight antenna ports for a PUCCH of mode 2 1. In such examples the CSI RS report can comprise each of a CSI reporting type 2a message a CSI reporting type 2b message a CSI reporting type 1 message and a CSI reporting type 6a message. The CSI reporting type 2a message can carry a first PMI. The CSI reporting type 2a message can be consistent with the CSI reporting type 2a message discussed with respect to Section 7.2.2 of TS 36. 213 of the 3GPP LTE standards for any of Releases 10 through 11. The CSI reporting type 2b message can carry a second PMI and a WBCQI. The CSI reporting type 1 message can carry a sub band CQI. The CSI reporting type 6a message can carry an RI a CSI RS indicator and a PTI. The CSI reporting type 6a can be a new CSI reporting type with a name consistent with the name conventions exemplified in Section 7.2.2 of TS 36. 213 of Release 11 of the 3GPP LTE standards. However since the CSI reporting type 6a can be a new CSI reporting type throughout this application the name CSI reporting type 6a can be replaced with an alternative name as long as an RI a CSI RS indicator and a PTI are still carried by the message.

As an additional alternative not depicted for examples where the CSI RS report can be configured for eight antenna ports for a PUCCH of mode 2 1 the CSI RS report can comprise each of a CSI reporting type 2g message a CSI reporting type 2b message a CSI reporting type 1 message and a CSI reporting type 6 message. The CSI reporting type 2g message can carry a first PMI and a CSI RS indicator. The CSI reporting type 2g can be a new CSI reporting type with a name consistent with the name conventions exemplified in Section 7.2.2 of TS 36. 213 of Release 11 of the 3GPP LTE standards. However since the CSI reporting type 2g can be a new CSI reporting type throughout this application the name CSI reporting type 2g can be replaced with an alternative name as long as a first PMI and a CSI RS indicator are still carried by the message. The CSI reporting type 2b message can carry a second PMI and a WBCQI. The CSI reporting type 1 message can carry a sub band CQI. The CSI reporting type 6 message can carry an RI and a PTI. The CSI reporting type 6 message can be consistent with the CSI reporting type 6 message discussed with respect to Section 7.2.2 of TS 36. 213 of the 3GPP LTE standards for any of Releases 10 through 11.

As yet an additional alternative not depicted for examples where the CSI RS report can be configured for eight antenna ports for a PUCCH of mode 2 1 the CSI RS report can comprise each of a CSI reporting type 7 message a CSI reporting type 6 message a CSI reporting type 2a message a CSI reporting type 2b message and a CSI reporting type 1a message. The CSI reporting type 7 message can carry a CSI RS indicator and have a periodicity that is one of equal to or a multiple of an RI periodicity to make use of a relatively slow variability with respect to vertical CSI to reduce overhead. The CSI reporting type 7 can be a new CSI reporting type with a name consistent with the name conventions exemplified in Section 7.2.2 of TS 36. 213 of Release 11 of the 3GPP LTE standards. However since the CSI reporting type 7 can be a new CSI reporting type throughout this application the name CSI reporting type 7 can be replaced with an alternative name as long as the message has the attributes described above. The CSI reporting type 6 message can carry an RI and a PTI for the recommended CSI RS resource. The CSI reporting type 2a message can carry a first PMI. The CSI reporting type 2b message can carry a second PMI and a WBCQI. The CSI reporting type 1 message can carry a sub band CQI.

In some examples not depicted the CSI RS report can comprise each of a CSI reporting type 7 message a CSI reporting type 3 message and either a CSI reporting type 2 message and a CSI reporting type 2c message. The CSI reporting type 7 message can carry a CSI RS indicator that can recommend a best CSI RS resource based on a superior spectral efficiency and can have a periodicity that is equal to or a multiple of an RI periodicity to make use of a relatively slow variability with respect to vertical CSI to reduce overhead. The CSI reporting type 3 message can carry an RI for the best CSI RS resource recommended by the CSI RS indicator.

The CSI reporting type 2 message can carry a PMI and a CQI for the best CSI RS resource recommended by the CSI RS indicator and conditioned on the RI. In certain examples the UE can send the CSI reporting type 2 message where the CSI RS report is configured with respect to multiple antenna ports that comprise one of two and four antenna ports for a PUCCH of mode 1 1. The CSI reporting type 2c message can carry a first PMI a second PMI and a CQI for the best CSI RS resource recommended by the CSI RS indicator and conditioned on the RI. In some examples the reporting module can send the CSI reporting type 2c message where the CSI RS report is configured for eight antenna ports for a PUCCH of mode 1 1.

A codeword corresponding to a unit of DL transmission data such as a transport block with error protection can be applied to each spatial multiplexing layer. As a compromise between potential gains achievable by increasing a number of codewords and increasing amounts of overhead associated with increasing numbers of codewords a wireless communication standard can set an upper limit to the number of available codewords. The 3GPP LTE standard limits the number of available codewords to two for a single transmission instance from an eNodeB. Therefore codewords can be shared in scenarios that capitalize on advantages of rank numbers greater than 2 as is particularly likely to be the case in scenarios employing vertical beamforming.

Potential diversity for rank numbers greater than two can be harnessed by means of Cyclic Delay Diversity CDD a technique previously reserved for open loop communications that lack feedback. CDD can make use of a time delay or phase shift in the frequency domain that results in a linearly increasing phase shift with subcarrier frequency. The linearly increasing phase shift with increasing subcarrier frequency can be used to give each subcarrier a different beam pattern increasing diversity. By delaying each antenna port corresponding to a different layer sharing a common codeword each layer sharing the common codeword can benefit independently in the same way from CDD.

Additionally power can be adjusted with respect to spatial multiplexing layers sharing a common codeword. Such an adjustment can be used to flatten the effective channel for the codeword in such a way to increase the accuracy that can be achieved for the single CQI provided for each codeword. Implementation of such CDD and power adjustments within a codeword divided among multiple layers can be achieved by matrix vector multiplication at a transmitting eNodeB.

Equation 1 in depicts an exemplary matrix vector multiplication for an example with a rank number of 3. The two codewords can be mapped to the three layer according to Table 6.3.3.2 1 of Section 6.3.3.2 of TS 36.211 of Release 11 of the 3GPP LTE standards. According to Table 6.3.3.2 1 the first codeword can be mapped to the first layer and the second codeword can be mapped to layers two and three.

With respect to Equation 1 a column vector corresponding to vector x in Equation 1 can be generated at an eNodeB with symbols from each of the three layers including multiple symbols from the common second codeword corresponding to layers two and three where the superscript on the elements in vector x indicate to which of the three layers the elements correspond. In Equation 1 i can be equal to an element in the series 0 1 . . . M 1 to collect a symbol from each layer. The vector x can be multiplied by the rotational matrix U to adjust power a CDD matrix D specific to a particular value of i to provide diversity within the common codeword and a pre coding matrix W which can also be specific to a particular value of i.

Equation 2 depicts the CDD matrix D specific to a particular value of i. As can be appreciated matrix D can be a diagonal matrix. Since the first two layers can have different codewords according to Table 6.3.3.2 1 the first non zero elements in each of the first two columns can both have a value of 1 preserving the first and second elements of vector x. Since the second and the third layers corresponding to the second and third elements in vector x can share a common codeword according to Table 6.3.3.2 1 a phase shift depending on the value of i can be applied to the third element of the third column of D so that each layer can individually benefit from CDD.

Equation 3 depicts a rotation matrix U that can be used to adjust power. Since the first layer has a unique codeword adjustments can be overlooked and the first element of the first column of rotation matrix U can have a value of 1 to preserve the first element of vector x. Since the bottom four elements of rotation matrix U are non zero the second and third elements of vector x can be combined in the second and third layers in keeping with the common codeword shared by these layers by the elements in the second and third rows of the second and third columns of matrix U. To flatten the effective cannel for the common codeword each of these final four elements of rotation matrix U can be divided by the square root of two with respect to voltage gain corresponding to dividing each of elements two and three in half with respect to power.

Equation 4 provides a simplified version of Equation 1 in which the product of vector x matrix D and matrix U are combined in a single vector r. In both Equation 1 and Equation 4 vector y corresponds to the output of the vector matrix multiplication as may be received by one or more UEs with appropriate considerations for channel and noise. The elements in vector r can correspond to one or more RSs. A similar approach can be taken with examples having a rank number greater than 3.

The column vector x in Equation 5 can be expanded to provide an element for each layer. As with Equation 1 in Equation 5 the incremental variable i can equal an element in the series 0 1 . . . M 1 to collect a symbol from each layer. Again the vector x can be multiplied by the rotational matrix U to adjust power a CDD matrix D specific to a particular value of i to provide diversity within the common codeword and a pre coding matrix W which can also be specific to a particular value of i.

Equation 6 depicts an expandable CDD matrix D specific to a particular value of i. As before a phase shift depending on the value of i and corresponding to a delay in the time domain can be applied for each layer sharing a common codeword. Where a codeword has more than two layers additional phase shifts not shown can be applied.

Equation 7 depicts an expandable rotation matrix U that can be used to adjust power. Each block of two layers can be assigned a corresponding sub block in the matrix U. The size of such blocks can be increased by increasing the number of non zero columns and rows by one for each new layer according to the depicted pattern. Since the first layer has a unique codeword adjustments can be overlooked and the first element of the first column of rotation matrix U can have a value of 1 to preserve the first element of vector x. Since the bottom four elements of rotation matrix U are non zero the second and third elements of vector x can be combined in the second and third layers in keeping with the common codeword shared by these layers. To flatten the effective cannel for the common codeword each of these final four elements of rotation matrix U can be divided by the square root of two with respect to voltage gain corresponding to dividing each element in half with respect to power.

Equation 8 provides a simplified version of Equation 1 in which the product of vector x matrix D and matrix U are combined in a single expandable vector r. In both Equation 5 and Equation 8 vector y can again correspond to the output of the vector matrix multiplication as may be received by one or more UEs with appropriate considerations for channel and noise. The elements in vector r can correspond to one or more RSs. A similar approach can be taken with examples having a rank number greater than 3. The preceding approaches described with respect to and can be applied to both UE specific RSs and CRS based close loop beamforming and can be applied to all manner of beamforming configurations including horizontal vertical and combinations thereof of beam configurations.

The receive module can be configured to receive multiple CSI RS resources. A CSI RS resource received by the receive module can correspond to one of multiple vertical beam configurations. In certain examples the multiple vertical beam configurations can be configured for the same number of ports and can share a common codebook at the UE. In some examples the multiple vertical beam configurations corresponding to the multiple CSI RS resources received by the receive module can be transparent to the UE.

The selection module can be configured to select a subset of the multiple vertical beam configurations for which to provide CSI RS reports to reduce a number of CSI RS reports leaving a set of non selected CSI RS resources unreported. By selecting a subset of the multiple vertical beam configurations the selection module can avoid CSI RS reports for unselected vertical beam configurations leaving a set of non selected CSI RS resources unreported. In some examples the selection module can select the subset of the multiple vertical beam configurations based on a superior spectral efficiency.

The preparation module can be configured to prepare one or more CSI RS reports for the subset of multiple vertical beam configurations. The reporting module can then send the one or more CSI RS reports to an eNodeB. Several different approaches can be taken to preparing and reporting the CSI RS report.

As with the CSI RS report discussed with respect to the preceding figure for examples consistent with the 3GPP LTE standards the unit of virtual channel response information can include various CSI message types. These various CSI message types can be tailored to a number of antenna ports and or a PUCCH mode for which the unit of virtual channel response information is configured. All of the various scenarios for CSI message types that make up the CSI RS report which can be based on antenna port numbers and PUCCH modes as discussed above can also be applied to make up the unit of virtual channel response information which can be sent as a series of such CSI message types.

The method can comprise receiving at a UE from an eNodeB CSI RS resources. The CSI RS resources can comprise reference CSI RS resources configured for a full set of antenna ports for a first vertical beam configuration. The CSI RS resources can also comprise a set of additional CSI RS resources configured for at least one subset of the full set of antenna ports for a set of additional vertical beam configurations. The set of additional beam configurations can differ from the first vertical beam configuration.

Additionally the method can comprise measuring reference channel response information for the reference CSI RS resources for the first vertical beam configuration. Additional channel response information can also be measured for the set of additional CSI RS resources for the set of additional vertical beam configurations. One or more offsets can be calculated between the first vertical beam configuration and one or more of the set of additional vertical beam configurations. The one or more offsets can be calculated with the reference channel response information and the additional channel response information.

In some examples of the method calculating the offset can further comprise calculating a difference between the reference channel response and the additional channel response information. In such examples the reference channel response information can be for the reference CSI RS resources configured for the full set of antenna ports. The additional channel response information can be for one of the set of additional CSI RS resources configured for a subset of the full set of antenna ports. The offset can be measured in decibels dBs .

Certain examples of the method can further comprise receiving vertical beamforming weights for the first vertical beam configuration. The vertical beamforming weights can be received over one of Layer 1 L1 Layer 2 L2 and Radio Resource Control RRC signaling in order to assist in vertical beam forming gain compensation. A second set of CSI RS resources can also be received at a UE. The second set of CSI RS resources can be in the set of additional CSI RS resources that pertains to multiple antenna ports for multiple vertical antenna elements. The multiple vertical antenna elements can belong to a single horizontal CSI RS port of the reference CSI RS resources. Each vertical antenna element can treated as a different port.

Such examples can further comprise selecting a best vertical PMI for channel response information corresponding to the second set of CSI RS resources from the additional channel response information. Additionally such examples can comprise determining beamforming weights of the best vertical PMI for the second CSI RS resource. Further a cross correlation can be calculated between the vertical beamforming weights of the first vertical beam configuration and the beamforming weights of the best vertical PMI for the second set of CSI RS resources. Another step can involve assigning the offset based on the cross correlation.

In certain examples assigning the offset can further comprise assigning a value to the offset equal to the cross correlation between the vertical beamforming weights of the first vertical beam configuration and the beamforming weights of the best vertical PMI for the second set of CSI RS resources. In such examples a predetermined vertical beamforming gain value can be assigned where the cross correlation is 0. A non limiting example of such a predetermined value provided for purposes of illustration can be 10 dB.

Some examples can further comprise calculating a unit of virtual channel response information. The unit of virtual channel response information can be for a selected vertical beam configuration of the set of additional vertical beam configurations. The unit of virtual information can be calculated by adding the offset to at least one unit of channel response information for at least one antenna port used by the selected vertical beam configuration. The at least one unit of channel response information can be measured with respect to the reference CSI RS resources for the first vertical beam configuration on the at least one antenna port.

In such examples the unit of virtual channel response information can comprise one or more CQIs one or more PMIs and or one or more RIs. Additionally such examples can further comprise reporting the unit of virtual channel response information to the eNodeB providing the reference CSI RS resources and the set of additional CSI RS resources. Several different approaches can be taken to preparing and reporting the unit of virtual channel response information.

As with the CSI RS report discussed with respect to the preceding figure for examples consistent with the 3GPP LTE standards the unit of virtual channel response information can include various CSI message types. These various CSI message types can be tailored to a number of antenna ports and or a PUCCH mode for which the unit of virtual channel response information is configured. All of the various scenarios for CSI message types that make up the CSI RS report which can be based on antenna port numbers and PUCCH modes as discussed above can also be applied to make up the unit of virtual channel response information which can be sent as a series of such CSI message types.

The method can comprise generating a column vector at an evolved Node B eNodeB with multiple symbols from a common codeword. The column vector can have a length equal to an RI. Each symbol in the column vector can be assigned to a spatial multiplexing layer.

The column vector can be multiplied by a rotation matrix. The rotation matrix can combine symbols from the common codeword to equalize transmission signals among the symbols from the common codeword. The equalization can be performed to reduce differences arising from differing characteristics in multiple spatial multiplexing layers for the symbols from the common codeword.

In certain examples the rotation matrix can combine symbols within the column vector from the common codeword while preventing a symbol from the column vector from a different codeword from being combined with a symbol from the common codeword. Also in some examples the rotation matrix can combine symbols within the column vector for each of two or more differing codewords while preventing symbols from differing codewords from being combined.

Additionally the method can comprise multiplying by a precoding matrix so that the symbols in the column vector are prepared for transmission from the eNodeB to a User Equipment UE . In some examples vertical beam forming increases a number of spatial multiplexing layers transmitted from the eNodeB. In many examples the RI can have a value greater than two.

Some examples can further comprise multiplying by a Cyclic Delay Diversity CDD matrix to provide spatial diversity to symbols in the column vector. Certain examples can further comprise including a Reference Signal RS in the common codeword. In such examples the RS can be either a User Equipment specific RS UERS or a Cell specific RS CRS . The RS can enable a more accurate calculation of a CQI by a UE by reducing errors arising from differences in spatial multiplexing layers.

In certain examples the CDD matrix can combine symbols within the column vector from the common codeword while preventing a symbol from the column vector from a different codeword from being combined with a symbol from the common codeword. Also in some examples the CDD matrix can combine symbols within the column vector for each of two or more differing codewords while preventing symbols from differing codewords from being combined.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives Solid State Drives SSD flash RAM or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of materials fasteners sizes lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

