---

title: Displaying virtual data as printed content
abstract: The technology provides embodiments for displaying virtual data as printed content by a see-through, near-eye, mixed reality display device system. One or more literary content items registered to a reading object in a field of view of the display device system are displayed with print layout characteristics. Print layout characteristics from a publisher of each literary content item are selected if available. The reading object has a type like a magazine, book, journal or newspaper and may be a real object or a virtual object displayed by the display device system. The reading object type of the virtual object is based on a reading object type associated with a literary content item to be displayed. Virtual augmentation data registered to a literary content item is displayed responsive to detecting user physical action in image data. An example of a physical action is a page flipping gesture.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09183807&OS=09183807&RS=09183807
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09183807
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120110
---
This application claims priority as a continuation in part to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 313 368 entitled Making Static Printed Content Dynamic with Virtual Data having the same inventors and filed Dec. 7 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

This application claims priority as a continuation in part to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 346 674 entitled Updating Printed Content with Personalized Virtual Data having the same inventors and filed Jan. 9 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Static printed material may be thought of as a form of read only memory which requires no power and stores its data in a form visible to the human eye. Vellum texts over a thousand years old survive to this day. The physical nature of the printed material allows a user to physically sift through its data for something of interest for example by flipping through its pages and looking at photos or catchy titles in a magazine. Of course physical books periodicals and paper have their disadvantages too due to the permanent setting of information on their pages.

Mixed reality is a technology that allows virtual imagery to be mixed with a real world view. A see through near eye mixed reality display device may be worn by a user to view the mixed imagery of real objects and virtual objects displayed in the user s field of view. A near eye mixed reality display device system such as a head mounted display HMD device displays literary content on a reading object. Literary content refers to a literary work for reading. The literary work may include image data which accompanies its text. The literary content may be published or unpublished like one s class notes or a memorandum.

The reading object may be a real object of material upon which literary content is printed or handwritten like one or more pages of paper bound or unbound. The pages may be blank or have something printed on them like lines or text. One or more literary content items may be displayed with an opaque background over written or imprinted pages. Another characteristic of a real reading object is that it is capable of being held in human hands and manipulated by hands and or fingers. The reading object may also be a virtual object. The literary content requested to be displayed is displayed with the appearance of printed content. Some examples of a type of reading object whether real or virtual are a page of paper unbound pages of paper a book a newspaper a magazine and a journal.

The technology provides an embodiment of a method for displaying virtual data as printed content using a see through near eye mixed reality display device. The method comprises receiving a request to display one or more literary content items registered to a reading object in a field of view of the see through near eye mixed reality display device system and selecting print layout characteristics for each of the one or more literary content items which are displayed with their respective print layout characteristics registered to the reading object in the field of view.

The technology provides an embodiment of a system for a see through near eye mixed reality display device system for displaying virtual data as printed content. The system comprises a see through display positioned by a support structure. An example of a support structure is a frame. At least one outward facing camera is positioned on the support structure for capturing image data of a field of view of the see through display. One or more software controlled processors are communicatively coupled to the at least one outward facing camera for receiving the image data of the field of view and also have access to one or more datastores including content print layout characteristics and virtual augmentation data for literary content items. The one or more software controlled processors select print layout characteristics for each of the one or more literary content items from the one or more data stores. At least one image generation unit is optically coupled to the see through display and is communicatively coupled to the one or more software controlled processors which cause the image generation unit to display the one or more literary content items with their respective selected print layout characteristics registered to a reading object in the field of view.

The literary content as well as augmentation virtual data discussed below is image data generated by the display device for the user to see when wearing the near eye display. This image data is also referred to as virtual data as it is displayed unlike real text printed in ink on a page. The virtual data may be two dimensional 2D or three dimensional 3D . A virtual object or virtual data which is registered to another object means the virtual object tracks its position in a field of view of the see through display device in reference to or dependent upon a position of the other object which may be real or virtual.

The technology provides an embodiment of one or more processor readable storage devices having instructions encoded thereon which instructions cause one or more processors to execute a method for displaying virtual data as printed content using a see through near eye mixed reality display device system. The method comprises receiving a request to display one or more literary content items registered to a reading object in a field of view of the see through near eye mixed reality display device system and selecting print layout characteristics for each of the one or more literary content items which are displayed with their respective print layout characteristics registered to the reading object in the field of view. The method further comprises displaying virtual augmentation data registered to at least one of the one or more literary content items responsive to physical action user input.

A physical action user input is an action performed by a user using a body part and captured in image data. The physical action signifies data or commands which direct the operation of an application. Some examples of a physical action are a gesture eye gaze and a sound or speech generated by a user.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The technology provides various embodiments for displaying virtual data as printed content by a see through near eye mixed reality display device system. As mentioned above in some embodiments the see through display device system identifies a real reading object like a real piece of paper a notebook a real book magazine newspaper or other real material upon which text for reading literary content is printed. Object recognition software can identify the real reading object from image data captured by front facing cameras positioned on the display device system to capture objects in the field of view of the display device which approximates the user field of view when looking through the display device. In some examples the real reading object is blank like a blank piece of paper and the content of the literary content item is displayed to appear as if printed on the object. For example the blank piece of paper now appears in the display as a printed page including at least a portion of the literary content item. As a real reading object may not be available a virtual reading object can also be displayed as the reading object. The display of the reading object is updated responsive to user physical action often to display virtual augmentation data some examples of which are interactive content user generated annotations and data from a user search request related to a selection of the literary content item a user has focused on.

In some instances eye gaze data identifies where a user is focusing in the field of view and can thus identify at which portion of the literary content item a user is looking. A gaze duration on a portion of the literary content item can identify the portion as a user content selection. Gaze duration is an example of a physical action of a user using a body part. A gesture performed by a user body part such as a hand or finger and captured in image data is also an example of physical action user input. A blink or blinking sequence of an eye can also be a gesture. A pointing or particular movement gesture by a hand finger or other body part can also indicate a user content selection like a word sentence paragraph or photograph. A user generated sound command such as a voice command may also be considered an example of a physical action indicating user input. Sound based actions typically accompany other physical actions like a gesture and eye gaze.

Once the user selects a picture or text different tasks or applications can be executed with respect to the user content selection like augmentation with interactive games and holograms replacement of character and location names with names of the user s friends and associated locations and annotation using virtual data either three dimensional two dimensional or both.

The use of the term actual direct view refers to the ability to see real world objects directly with the human eye rather than seeing created image representations of the objects. For example looking through glass at a room allows a user to have an actual direct view of the room while viewing a video of a room on a television is not an actual direct view of the room. Each display optical system is also referred to as a see through display and the two display optical systems together may also be referred to as a see through display.

Frame provides a support structure for holding elements of the system in place as well as a conduit for electrical connections. In this embodiment frame provides a convenient eyeglass frame as support for the elements of the system discussed further below. The frame includes a nose bridge portion with a microphone for recording sounds and transmitting audio data in this embodiment. A temple or side arm of the frame rests on each of a user s ears. In this example the right temple includes control circuitry for the display device .

As illustrated in an image generation unit is included on each temple in this embodiment as well. Also not shown in this view but illustrated in are outward facing cameras for recording digital images and videos and transmitting the visual recordings to the control circuitry which may in turn send the captured image data to the processing unit which may also send the data to one or more computer systems over a network .

The processing unit may take various embodiments. In some embodiments processing unit is a separate unit which may be worn on the user s body e.g. a wrist or be a separate device like the illustrated mobile device as illustrated in . The processing unit may communicate wired or wirelessly e.g. WiFi Bluetooth infrared RFID transmission wireless Universal Serial Bus WUSB cellular 3G 4G or other wireless communication means over a communication network to one or more computing systems whether located nearby or at a remote location. In other embodiments the functionality of the processing unit may be integrated in software and hardware components of the display device as in .

A remote network accessible computer system may be leveraged for processing power and remote data access. An application may be executing on computing system which interacts with or performs processing for display system or may be executing on one or more processors in the see through mixed reality display system . An example of hardware components of a computing system is shown in .

In many embodiments the two cameras provide overlapping image data from which depth information for objects in the scene may be determined based on stereopsis. In some examples the cameras may also be depth sensitive cameras which transmit and detect infrared light from which depth data may be determined. The processing identifies and maps the user s real world field of view. Some examples of depth sensing technologies that may be included on the head mounted display device without limitation are SONAR LIDAR Structured Light and or Time of Flight.

Control circuits provide various electronics that support the other components of head mounted display device . In this example the right temple includes control circuitry for the display device which includes a processing unit a memory accessible to the processing unit for storing processor readable instructions and data a wireless interface communicatively coupled to the processing unit and a power supply providing power for the components of the control circuitry and the other components of the display like the cameras the microphone and the sensor units discussed below. The processing unit may comprise one or more processors including a central processing unit CPU and a graphics processing unit GPU .

Inside or mounted to temple are ear phones inertial sensors one or more location or proximity sensors some examples of which are a GPS transceiver an infrared IR transceiver or a radio frequency transceiver for processing RFID data. Optional electrical impulse sensor detects commands via eye movements. In one embodiment inertial sensors include a three axis magnetometer A three axis gyro B and three axis accelerometer C. The inertial sensors are for sensing position orientation and sudden accelerations of head mounted display device . From these movements head position may also be determined. In this embodiment each of the devices using an analog signal in its operation like the sensor devices and as well as the microphone and an IR illuminator A discussed below include control circuitry which interfaces with the digital processing unit and memory and which produces and converts analog signals for its respective device.

Mounted to or inside temple is an image source or image generation unit which produces visible light representing images. In one embodiment the image source includes micro display for projecting images of one or more virtual objects and coupling optics lens system for directing images from micro display to reflecting surface or element . The microdisplay may be implemented in various technologies including transmissive projection technology micro organic light emitting diode OLED technology or a reflective technology like digital light processing DLP liquid crystal on silicon LCOS and Mirasol display technology from Qualcomm Inc. The reflecting surface directs the light from the micro display into a lightguide optical element which directs the light representing the image into the user s eye. Image data of a virtual object may be registered to a real object meaning the virtual object tracks its position to a position of the real object seen through the see through display device when the real object is in the field of view of the see through displays .

In the illustrated embodiment the display optical system is an integrated eye tracking and display system. The system includes a light guide optical element opacity filter and optional see through lens and see through lens . The opacity filter for enhancing contrast of virtual imagery is behind and aligned with optional see through lens lightguide optical element for projecting image data from the microdisplay is behind and aligned with opacity filter and optional see through lens is behind and aligned with lightguide optical element . More details of the light guide optical element and opacity filter are provided below.

Light guide optical element transmits light from micro display to the eye of the user wearing head mounted display device . Light guide optical element also allows light from in front of the head mounted display device to be transmitted through light guide optical element to eye as depicted by arrow representing an optical axis of the display optical system thereby allowing the user to have an actual direct view of the space in front of head mounted display device in addition to receiving a virtual image from micro display . Thus the walls of light guide optical element are see through. Light guide optical element includes a first reflecting surface e.g. a mirror or other surface . Light from micro display passes through lens and becomes incident on reflecting surface . The reflecting surface reflects the incident light from the micro display such that light is trapped inside a waveguide a planar waveguide in this embodiment. A representative reflecting element represents the one or more optical elements like mirrors gratings and other optical elements which direct visible light representing an image from the planar waveguide towards the user eye .

Infrared illumination and reflections also traverse the planar waveguide for an eye tracking system for tracking the position of the user s eyes. The position of the user s eyes and image data of the eye in general may be used for applications such as gaze detection blink command detection and gathering biometric information indicating a personal state of being for the user. The eye tracking system comprises an eye tracking illumination source A and an eye tracking IR sensor B positioned between lens and temple in this example. In one embodiment the eye tracking illumination source A may include one or more infrared IR emitters such as an infrared light emitting diode LED or a laser e.g. VCSEL emitting about a predetermined IR wavelength or a range of wavelengths. In some embodiments the eye tracking sensor B may be an IR camera or an IR position sensitive detector PSD for tracking glint positions.

The use of a planar waveguide as a light guide optical element in this embodiment allows flexibility in the placement of entry and exit optical couplings to and from the waveguide s optical path for the image generation unit the illumination source A and the IR sensor B. In this embodiment a wavelength selective filter passes through visible spectrum light from the reflecting surface and directs the infrared wavelength illumination from the eye tracking illumination source A into the planar waveguide through wavelength selective filter passes through the visible illumination from the micro display and the IR illumination from source A in the optical path heading in the direction of the nose bridge . Reflective element in this example is also representative of one or more optical elements which implement bidirectional infrared filtering which directs IR illumination towards the eye preferably centered about the optical axis and receives IR reflections from the user eye . Besides gratings and such mentioned above one or more hot mirrors may be used to implement the infrared filtering. In this example the IR sensor B is also optically coupled to the wavelength selective filter which directs only infrared radiation from the waveguide including infrared reflections of the user eye preferably including reflections captured about the optical axis out of the waveguide to the IR sensor B.

In other embodiments the eye tracking unit optics are not integrated with the display optics. For more examples of eye tracking systems for HMD devices see U.S. Pat. No. 7 401 920 entitled Head Mounted Eye Tracking and Display System issued Jul. 22 2008 to Kranz et al. see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 221 739 Lewis et al. entitled Gaze Detection in a See Through Near Eye Mixed Reality Display filed Aug. 30 2011 and see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 245 700 Bohn entitled Integrated Eye Tracking and Display System filed Sep. 26 2011 all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Another embodiment for tracking the direction of the eyes is based on charge tracking. This concept is based on the observation that a retina carries a measurable positive charge and the cornea has a negative charge. Sensors in some embodiments are mounted by the user s ears near earphones to detect the electrical potential while the eyes move around and effectively read out what the eyes are doing in real time. See Feb. 19 2010 http www.wirefresh.com control your mobile music with eyeball actvated headphones which is hereby incorporated by reference. Eye blinks may be tracked as commands. Other embodiments for tracking eyes movements such as blinks which are based on pattern and motion recognition in image data from the small eye tracking camera B mounted on the inside of the glasses can also be used. The eye tracking camera B sends buffers of image data to the memory under control of the control circuitry .

Opacity filter which is aligned with light guide optical element selectively blocks natural light from passing through light guide optical element for enhancing contrast of virtual imagery. When the system renders a scene for the mixed reality display it takes note of which real world objects are in front of which virtual objects and vice versa. If a virtual object is in front of a real world object then the opacity is turned on for the coverage area of the virtual object. If the virtual object is virtually behind a real world object then the opacity is turned off as well as any color for that display area so the user will only see the real world object for that corresponding area of real light. The opacity filter assists the image of a virtual object to appear more realistic and represent a full range of colors and intensities. In this embodiment electrical control circuitry for the opacity filter not shown receives instructions from the control circuitry via electrical connections routed through the frame.

Again only show half of the head mounted display device . A full head mounted display device would include another set of optional see through lenses and another opacity filter another light guide optical element another micro display another lens system physical environment facing camera also referred to as outward facing or front facing camera eye tracking assembly earphones and sensors if present. Additional details of a head mounted display are illustrated in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 905 952 entitled Fusing Virtual Content Into Real Content Filed Oct. 15 2010 fully incorporated herein by reference.

Virtual data engine processes virtual objects and registers the position and orientation of virtual objects in relation to one or more coordinate systems. Additionally the virtual data engine performs the translation rotation scaling and perspective operations using standard image processing methods to make the virtual object appear realistic. A virtual object position may be registered or dependent on a position of a corresponding object which may be real or virtual. The virtual data engine determines the position of image data of a virtual object in display coordinates for each display optical system . The virtual data engine may also determine the position of virtual objects in various maps of a real world environment stored in a memory unit of the display device system or of the computing system . One map may be the field of view of the display device with respect to one or more reference points for approximating the locations of the user s eyes. For example the optical axes of the see through display optical systems may be used as such reference points. In other examples the real world environment map may be independent of the display device e.g. a 3D map or model of a location e.g. store coffee shop museum .

One or more processors of the computing system or the display device system or both also execute the object recognition engine to identify real objects in image data captured by the environment facing cameras . As in other image processing applications a person can be a type of object. For example the object recognition engine may implement pattern recognition based on structure data to detect particular objects including a human. The object recognition engine may also include facial recognition software which is used to detect the face of a particular person.

Structure data may include structural information about targets and or objects to be tracked. For example a skeletal model of a human may be stored to help recognize body parts. In another example structure data may include structural information regarding one or more inanimate objects in order to help recognize the one or more inanimate objects. The structure data may store structural information as image data or use image data as references for pattern recognition. The image data may also be used for facial recognition.

In particular the structure data includes data for identifying different types of reading objects. Object recognition as mentioned relies on filters applied to characteristics of an object like its size shape and motion characteristics as may be identified in a motion capture file generated by field of view image data from the front facing cameras . These different characteristics are weighted and a probability is assigned whether an image object is a reading object or other type of object. If the probability satisfies a criteria a reading object type is assigned to the object.

Paper books newspapers professional journals and magazines have many standardized features. For example they typically come in standard sizes for example standard page sizes. Furthermore the shape of a page of a reading object tends to be rectangular in shape. The material composition of paper varies but there are standards of material compositions. For example a certain grade of hard white ledger paper may contain virtually no groundwood paper while newsprint paper is paper made from groundwood. Some types of paper may be bleached or unbleached. The standardized material compositions of papers have different reflectivities which can be measured from IR or color image data captured by the front facing cameras which in some instances are also depth cameras. As a user even if not holding a reading object manipulates the reading object with at least one hand the interaction with the hand can be captured in image data to see if page movement of a particular reading object matches a motion profile of a type of reading object. Furthermore there may be some text on the reading object already. The text amount placement on the object and orientation on the object are also factors identifying a type of reading object.

Furthermore some reading objects like a blank page or a blank book may include a marker on its cover or page which includes identifying data or a reference identifier for accessing identifying data from a remotely executing application. Some examples of identifying data for a reading object are its page connection side page dimensions cover dimensions number of pages and color of pages thickness of pages line color and thickness if lines included. A marker may be an invisible marker like an RFID tag or an IR retroreflective tag which an IR or RFID transceiver unit may detect and send to the processing unit of control circuitry to read its data for the object recognition engine and the virtual printed content application . A marker may also be a visible marker which can act as a reference identifier as described above.

For determining some physical characteristics of a real reading object like a number of pages the object recognition engine can cause the virtual data engine to generate audio for or display a request for clarification of the number of pages.

In another example certain text on a reading object itself can be identified by the object recognition engine and parsed to identify physical characteristics. The structure data may include one or more image datastores including images of numbers symbols e.g. mathematical symbols letters and characters from alphabets used by different languages. Additionally structure data may include handwriting samples of the user for identification.

For example a reading object may be identified as a notebook type of reading object. Notebooks typically have a number of sheets of paper and the page size printed on their covers. They may also have words like college ruled indicating the notebook is ruled and has a standard line spacing. In other examples the object recognition engine may convert printed text on the reading object or within its pages in the image data to a searchable computer standard text format like Unicode and search publisher and Internet indexed resources datastores for identifying data like page size and a number of pages. Such text may include data which identifies the content printed on the object like a title author publisher and edition. Other text which may be used to identify physical characteristics are an International Standard Book Number ISBN which identifies the specific book an International Standard Serial Number ISSN which identifies the title of a periodical and a Serial Item and Contribution Identifier SICI which is a standard used to identify specific volumes articles or other identifiable parts of the periodical. Searching based on this data identifying content returns information on the physical characteristics of the reading object. The content itself will be overlaid with the requested literary content.

Upon detection of one or more objects by the object recognition engine image and audio processing engine may report to operating system an identification of each object detected and a corresponding position and or orientation which the operating system passes along to an application like virtual printed content application .

The outward facing cameras in conjunction with the object recognition engine and gesture recognition engine implements a natural user interface NUI in embodiments of the display device system . Blink commands or gaze duration data identified by the eye tracking software are also examples of physical action user input. Voice commands may also supplement other recognized physical actions such as gestures and eye gaze.

The gesture recognition engine can identify actions performed by a user indicating a control or command to an executing application. The action may be performed by a body part of a user e.g. a hand or finger typically in reading applications but also an eye blink sequence of an eye can be gestures. In one embodiment the gesture recognition engine includes a collection of gesture filters each comprising information concerning a gesture that may be performed by at least a part of a skeletal model. The gesture recognition engine compares a skeletal model and movements associated with it derived from the captured image data to the gesture filters in a gesture library to identify when a user as represented by the skeletal model has performed one or more gestures. In some examples a camera in particular a depth camera in the real environment separate from the display device in communication with the display device system or a computing system may detect the gesture and forward a notification to the system . In other examples the gesture may be performed in view of the cameras by a body part such as the user s hand or one or more fingers.

In some examples matching of image data to image models of a user s hand or finger during gesture training sessions may be used rather than skeletal tracking for recognizing gestures.

More information about the detection and tracking of objects can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 641 788 Motion Detection Using Depth Images filed on Dec. 18 2009 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 475 308 Device for Identifying and Tracking Multiple Humans over Time both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. More information about the gesture recognition engine can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 422 661 Gesture Recognizer System Architecture filed on Apr. 13 2009 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. More information about recognizing gestures can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 391 150 Standard Gestures filed on Feb. 23 2009 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 474 655 Gesture Tool filed on May 29 2009 both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The computing environment also stores data in image and audio data buffer s . The buffers provide memory for receiving image data captured from the outward facing cameras image data from an eye tracking camera of an eye tracking assembly if used buffers for holding image data of virtual objects to be displayed by the image generation units and buffers for audio data such as voice commands from the user via microphone and instructions to be sent to the user via earphones .

Device data may include a unique identifier for the computer system a network address e.g. an IP address model number configuration parameters such as devices installed identification of the operating system and what applications are available in the display device system and are executing in the display system etc. Particularly for the see through mixed reality display device system the device data may also include data from sensors or determined from the sensors like the orientation sensors the temperature sensor the microphone the electrical impulse sensor if present and the location and proximity transceivers .

In this embodiment the display device system and other processor based systems used by the user execute a client side version of a push service application N which communicates over a communication network with an information push service engine . The information push service engine is cloud based in this embodiment. A cloud based engine is one or more software applications which execute on and store data by one or more networked computer systems. The engine is not tied to a particular location. Some examples of cloud based software are social networking sites and web based email sites like Yahoo and Hotmail . A user may register an account with the information push service engine which grants the information push service permission to monitor the user s executing applications and data generated and received by them as well as user profile data and device data for tracking the user s location and device capabilities. Based on the user profile data aggregated from the user s systems the data received and sent by the executing applications on systems used by the user and location and other sensor data stored in device data the information push service can determine a physical context a social context a personal context like a state of being or a combination of contexts for the user.

The local copies of the user profile data may store some of the same user profile data and the client side push service applications may periodically update their local copies with the user profile data stored by the computer system in an accessible database over a communication network . Some examples of user profile data are the user s expressed preferences the user s friends list the user s preferred activities the user s favorites some examples of which are favorite color favorite foods favorite books favorite author etc. a list of the user s reminders the user s social groups the user s current location and other user created content such as the user s photos images and recorded videos. In one embodiment the user specific information may be obtained from one or more data sources or applications such as the information push service a user s social networking sites contacts or address book schedule data from a calendar application email data instant messaging data user profiles or other sources on the Internet as well as data directly entered by the user. As discussed below a state of being may be derived from eye data and be updated and stored in the user profile data both locally and by the remote push service application . In this embodiment a network accessible state of being rules links identified eye data with a state of being as a reference for deriving the state of being.

Trust levels may be determined by user profile data which identifies people known to the user for example as social networking friends and family members sharing the same gaming service which may be subdivided into different groups based on trust levels. Additionally the user may explicitly identify trust levels in their user profile data using a client side push service application N. In one embodiment the cloud based information push service engine aggregates data from user profile data stored on the different user computer systems of the user.

Each version of the push service application also stores in user profile data a tracking history of the user. Some examples of events people and things tracked in the tracking history are locations visited transactions content and real things purchased a reading history a viewing history including viewings of television movies and videos and people detected with whom the user has interacted. If electronically identified friends e.g. social networking friends are registered with the push service application too or they make information available to the user or publicly through other applications the push service application can use this data as well to track the content and social context of the user.

As discussed further below the virtual printed content application may access one or more search engines for identifying print layout characteristics available for a literary content item as well as virtual augmentation data related to a literary content item or a particular user content selection within the literary content item. Examples of resources which may be searched for identification and pertinent virtual data are illustrated as publisher databases and literary content related resources indexed for Internet searching. For example a general purpose search engine like Bing or Google may be accessed as well as a search engine for the Library of Congress university libraries or publisher databases made available to the public or on a subscription basis as may be identified in user profile data. Publishers may have pointers to virtual augmentation data in their databases as publishers may have a business model for encouraging virtual augmentation data to be developed for augmenting their copyrighted material. Additionally entities not associated with the publishers or who wish to maintain their own data resources may wish to make virtual augmentation data available through their own websites which are Internet indexed resources. Metadata for a user content selection can be filled with values based on searches of the publishers and Internet indexed resource datastores . discussed below provides an example of a user content selection metadata record.

Once print layout characteristics are identified the virtual printed content application generates one or more page layouts as discussed below based on layout rules which in this example are stored in a network accessible data storage device. The layout rules implement page layout criteria. The layout rules may be initially developed by a graphic designer familiar with different publishing formats and programmed and stored in a database for automatic implementation by a processing unit executing the virtual printed content application . Some examples of criteria include visibility criteria publisher rules on which layout characteristics are adjustable and which are not and spacing constraints. Some layout rules may implement a certain number of panels or blocks on a page wherein each block displays a respective literary content item and length and width adjustment ranges for the blocks. Standardized or typical spacing constraints for different types of media like books and magazines may be implemented as well as publisher specific spacing constraints. Some examples of spacing constraints may be a minimum number of words to fit on a line a minimum percentage of a literary content item or section of a literary content item is to appear in order for the literary content item to be included in a page layout with other items and a picture or photograph is to fit completely on a page in order to be included in a page layout. These are just some examples of graphic design or layout rules which may be implemented.

Some examples of visibility criteria can be the size of the text or pictorial content in the field of view. If too small or too large the size of the content can be adjusted to a comfortable level. A depth distance of a real reading object can be determined from IR data captured by 3D versions of the cameras or photogrammetry based on 2D images from the cameras . The depth distance can indicate reading material is too close or too far away and font size for example can be adjusted to accommodate for the distance. The visibility criteria may be based on the user s actual eyesight if a prescription has been uploaded eyesight typical for a user s age or based on average eyesight characteristics for humans.

The graphic design of a printed publication often results in print layout characteristics which act as a source attribute meaning the print layout characteristics identify either the publisher or the periodical name as the source of the content. Some print layout characteristics may even be protected by a trademark. For example a size and font for front page and secondary headlines may be widely identified with a certain newspaper. Additionally some newspapers use a column format with actual column lines and columns of fixed size while others use more of a block style with articles formatted into columns of various size within the blocks and no column lines. Some examples of adjustable characteristics are text size perhaps within a range column spacing for some publishers and allowing content to be displayed across pages. Some publisher constraints may not allow adjustment of column width but provide layout rules allowing font size change within the column. For book publishers the number of pages and font size may be adjustable.

Besides displaying the virtual literary content requested the virtual printed content application can query one or more search engines to search for virtual augmentation data for the user content selection based on the literary content item including it. In some instances the virtual augmentation data is data specifically generated for appearing in relation to the user content selection as laid out in a specific printed version for example on a particular page of a book or other subdivision of printed material. For example a publisher who has the layout of a book stored in its databases can supply interactive games and other content for a book at predetermined positions on a page and for specific pages.

In some embodiments the virtual augmentation data is associated with a work or a work version including the user content selection independent of the medium expressing the content. For example paper or other printable material is an example of a medium. Another medium expressing a work is an electronic display or audio recording.

In other examples virtual augmentation data is tied to a medium independent work or work version. For example a professor may store her notes she has made at different points in her virtual copy of a textbook to be available for any version of the textbook independent of medium. In other words the content of the textbook is a work. Current previous and future versions of the textbook are versions of the work. The virtual printed content application links each note to a subdivision of the work in a medium independent organization of the work. For example a note may be linked to a phrase in a particular paragraph which can be identified by executing software instructions for text matching. A paragraph is a medium independent subdivision while a page is dependent on the particular printing or electronic layout. A real paperback copy of a textbook with smaller print and a different number of pages is a different print version from a hardback copy of the textbook in larger print although they contain the exact same version of the textbook content and thus has the same work version. The professor may allow her virtual notes to be available for storage or streaming at her discretion to students who take her class or past students by granting permission and access to them.

Responsive to available virtual augmentation data selections being identified the virtual printed content application selects virtual augmentation data from the candidates of available virtual augmentation data selections based on augmentation data selection rules stored in accessible memory which can be local but which can also be network accessible. The augmentation data selection rules provide logic for identifying pertinent user data in user profile data related to the literary content item or user content selection and the available candidates of augmentation data.

For example the poem Beowulf is a work. The original old English form of the poem is a work version as would be a version which has substituted modern English terms for some of the words. Another example of a version would be a French translation. Another example would be the original old English poem footnoted with comments. A printed version identifier may identify a printed version of the poem on one or more sheets of vellum maintained in a library. This printed version would also have the work version identifier for the original old English form and the work identifier for Beowulf associated with it. A different printed content item version identifier identifies an anthology of English literature which has printed the version of Beowulf footnoted with comments beginning on its page 37. This different printed version has a different printed content item version identifier and work version identifier than the original old English form of the poem but has the same work identifier. For content within the anthology version of the poem selected by a user the position data of the user content selection is in terms of page 37. In this instance likely the work version position data and the work position data indicate the same stanza.

Publishers may provide access to their datastores of copyrighted works for identification purposes and as a reference for the layout of the work work version or printed version for developers of virtual augmentation data. By being able to access the layout of the works particular work versions and particular printed content item versions developers can create virtual augmentation data for medium independent and medium dependent versions of a work. As illustrated the databases and and the virtual augmentation data may cross reference each other.

For works not subject to copyright datastores under control of libraries particularly those with large collections like the Library of Congress other national libraries universities and large public libraries and book compilation websites like Google Books and sites maintained by universities may be searched for copies of a work a work version or a printed content version for layouts to which to reference position data .

Embodiments of methods for the technology and example implementation processes for some of the steps of the methods are presented in figures below. For illustrative purposes the method embodiments below are described in the context of the system embodiments described above. However the method embodiments are not limited to operating in the system embodiments described above and may be implemented in other system embodiments.

In step the virtual printed content application selects print layout characteristics for each of the one or more literary content items. As discussed below in the selection process the virtual printed content application may access publisher datastores which may have been identified in metadata for the literary content item. If not default print layout characteristics may be selected based on one or more reading objects associated with the literary content items. For example a poem may be associated with reading objects of book magazine literary magazine and a page. Additionally although a reading object may not be listed in the descriptive metadata of a literary content item another type of reading object may be selected. In step the one or more literary content items are displayed with their respective print layout characteristics registered to the reading object in the field of view .

Print layout selection and display of the literary content items are effected by the nature of the reading object as real or virtual. is a flowchart of an embodiment of a method for selecting a reading object in the field of view. In step the virtual printed content application determines whether physical action has been detected indicating user selection of a real reading object. Such a determination may be based on metadata generated and stored by the object recognition engine for an object satisfying a filter for a type of reading object. The user selection based on physical action may be based on a position of the object in relation to a position of a user s hand identified by another set of object metadata as determined by the object recognition engine from field of view image data from cameras . For a physical action of a gesture the gesture recognition engine may have also identified a selection gesture of the reading object in the field of view image data. Furthermore a point of gaze position in the field of view as determined by the eye tracking software based on eye image data data identifying what is being displayed on the display and the field of view image data may also have identified selection of the real reading object. Voice data may be used in separately but typically in conjunction with a gesture or gaze to confirm or clarify a selection. Responsive to determining physical action has been detected indicating user selection of a real reading object in step the virtual printed content application selects the real reading object as the reading object.

Responsive to user selection of a real reading object not being indicated in step the virtual printed content application automatically selects a reading object type for a virtual reading object based on a reading object type associated with each requested literary content item. In some embodiments a weighting scheme may be used. For example if one of the literary items to be displayed is a novel associated with a reading object type of book and other requested items are poems associated with reading object types of a separate sheet of paper a book and one or more types of periodical and another is a newspaper article due to its higher percentage of overall content a reading object type of book receives a weighting indicating a higher probability for selection than a newspaper or periodical. In step the virtual printed content application selects the virtual reading object as the reading object.

Responsive to a publisher rule set not being available in step the virtual printed content application assigns print layout characteristics for the literary content item i . In step the counter i is updated and in step the loop continues until i N 1.

Responsive to a publisher rule set being available in step the virtual printed content application retrieves the available one or more publisher print layout characteristics rule sets and identifies and in step determines whether more than one publisher rule set has been retrieved. If a single publisher rule set has been retrieved the virtual printed content application proceeds to step . If more than one publisher rule set has been retrieved the virtual printed content application in step selects a publisher print layout characteristics rule set based on page size dimensions of the reading object visibility criteria and any user layout preferences. For example if the reading object selected is a book a publisher print layout characteristics rule set which designates a page size about the page size of the reading object book is weighted more heavily in a selection algorithm the layouts for different page sizes. If user preferences have indicated a preferred user font in reading books a layout with the preferred font receives a weighting. For visibility criteria layouts with fonts too small for the user s comfort reading position or previously identified by the user as difficult for distinguishing the letters will receive an unfavorable weighting.

In step the virtual printed content application identifies a printed content item version identifier for the literary content item i based on the selected publisher print layout characteristics rule set. Steps and are then performed.

Besides print layout characteristics and constraints imposed by publishers on them there are also constraints on layout imposed by the work of the literary content item. For example a novel is generally expressed in chapters and paragraphs. To display a novel without identifying chapters and paragraph indentations would not only be very difficult to read due to visual processing by the human eye but would also effect how readily a reader comprehends a point being made or who is speaking. A Haiku poem has seventeen syllables and is typically presented as three lines with the first and third being of five syllables and the middle being of seven. A sonnet has fourteen lines. Typically there is line spacing between stanzas of poems. In these examples the number of lines and separation into paragraphs are part of the layout of the work which constrains all printed layouts. The size of the line spacing and the size of the paragraph indentations may vary in print layouts.

As an illustrative example a user may identify a number of news articles from different sources a chapter in a textbook and a mystery novel to read for a long train ride. For this example the user picks up a newspaper left on the seat next to her and uses it as a real reading object. People tend to read newspaper articles together and so the newspaper articles are placed in one set so that they will be laid out together in a typical newspaper layout template. The page layout for the set of newspaper articles will have newspaper page layouts for a front perhaps a back and interior pages based on a selected newspaper template. An example of a newspaper template is one with lines separating columns of fixed width and another example is one without lines separating the columns and variable column size. The actual print layout on the newspaper picked up does not effect the layout as an opaque background for the literary items will be displayed. The textbook will have a different page layout due to the size of its pages and the textbook pages form another set. Typically a person does not read interspersed pages of a textbook and a mystery. The real newspaper is still used at the reading object in this example although the newspaper block template is no longer used. The textbook is displayed in a page format and based on its page size and the size dimensions of the picked up newspaper as may be determined as described previously by identifying the title of the periodical more than one page of the textbook may be designated for display registered to the newspaper page. Similarly the mystery novel may be displayed like the textbook although the page size in the print layout characteristics for the novel may be smaller allowing more pages to fit on the newspaper page.

In the same example but using a virtual reading object one virtual reading object may be selected and based on a layout rule that the reading object type for the highest percentage of requested content is selected a book format may be selected for the reading object. In another example due to the freedom allowed by a virtual book a book for the textbook and novel or a book for each of them fitted to the size characteristics of their respective print layout characteristics may have been generated. A separate newspaper object may have been generated for the articles.

In step for each page assign each item assigned to the page to a block on the page based on the size characteristics of the respective literary content item. For example based on the number of words of the item and the font used an area of the item can be determined to see if the item satisfies fit criteria for the block dimensions. Layout rules typically will allow the virtual printed content application to increase or decrease the amount of the literary content subject to any minimum content percentage criteria in a block and adjust font size within a range. The virtual printed content application can split a literary content item between blocks on the same or separate page.

In step the virtual printed content application determines whether any of the blocks do not satisfy visibility criteria. Responsive to a block not satisfying visibility criteria the virtual printed content application in step performs adjustment of one or more adjustable print layout characteristics of the literary content item for satisfying visibility criteria. Again not being limited to a specific number of pages allows flexibility in making layout adjustments as a page can be added as needed. Responsive to the blocks satisfying visibility criteria the virtual printed content application returns control in step to another aspect of the virtual printed content application or another application executing in the display device system until another literary content item is requested to be displayed.

In this example the template of a newspaper is chosen based on a reading object type of newspaper being associated with the articles even for the syndicated news service article . The article with the highest user preference for the page e.g. based on reading history in user profile data or by a first entry of user input requesting literary content for display and in this case the set as this is the front page has a photograph associated with it. The print layout characteristics for the newspaper from which the article came center a photograph on the front page as indicated in layout rules stored by the publisher. This front page was generated from a template which included a headline block a center photograph block two blocks surrounding or outlining the center photograph block and a third article block.

The virtual printed content application selects the title of the article with the highest user preference for the set as the headline in accordance with the print layout characteristics identified for the article if placed in a lead article block and the publisher s layout rules. In this example the headline reads U.S. Budget Deficit Projected to Grow 10 Next Year. The font and font style characteristics e.g. bold italic regular etc. and spacing and other layout characteristics of the title are selected as those stored in the publisher s layout rules or the print characteristics for the article . This example uses Cooper Black at an 18 pt. size in italics.

For the article its print layout characteristics identify its linked photograph and linked photo caption White House Press Secretary Jeanne Norden Responds to Congressional Budget Criticism and print layout characteristics which apply to them such as the font font style font size and line spacing range of the photo caption . Print layout characteristics for article indicate a font font style and font size range for the article text itself which is regular style 10 pt. Estrangelo Edessa in this example while that of the photo caption uses a 9 pt. italicized version of the same font.

In some embodiments publisher print layout rules for the article identify an advertisement to be displayed as a print advertisement responsive to the article being displayed. For example the advertisement may be displayed on an opposite page to the article.

The columns for article are of fixed size and narrower than those for article . For a newspaper as articles typically run onto other pages the page connector format as specified in the print layout characteristics for the article or the publisher s layout rules is used which includes the text Go to page 2. This page connector style of using the word Go capitalized and spelling out the word page represents a layout characteristic forming part of a source attribute identifying the publisher as do the font characteristics and the column characteristics. An author byline is not included on the front page as the print layout characteristics for the article include the byline at the end of the article.

The print layout characteristics for the article from a well known financial newspaper are different. As it is not the lead article the title for the article takes the font size and spacing characteristics of a non lead article for the newspaper from which this article comes. The position of the title as indicated by the print layout characteristics is within the column width of the article to which it is attached as illustrated for title which reads AMERICAN AIRLINES DECLARES BANKRUPTCY. In this example the print layout characteristics indicate the title font is Felix Titling in 10 pt. font size and the letters of the title are all capitalized. The byline style includes the byline of the author s name in italics by itself in Ariel Narrow at a same font size as the article. The page connector is printed in italics and uses a form with the word Continued in Italics and the abbreviation p. for page as in Continued on p. 2 . The column characteristics result in display of slightly wider columns than article .

The third article is from a syndicated news service like the Associated Press so there are no print layout characteristics associated with it however there may be a few publisher layout rules such as inclusion of the author name in a byline which uses the word By capitalized and the name of the news service in this example a representative ZZZZ News Service . The virtual printed content application selects the fonts font sizes and in this example chooses a default variable width column format for the block in order to fit the short article in its entirety. A default title format which extends across the page is chosen as well as a font Constantia in 14 pt. font in this example for the title which reads All Toyota Plants Back to Full Capacity. A default newspaper font is selected for the text of the article represented here by Arial font.

Besides publisher layout rules general layout rules for a reading object may also be implemented by virtual printed content application . Some examples of such rules are that each word in a title is capitalized and an article title has a smaller font size than a headline.

If there is augmentation data available for the user content selection then in step the application selects augmentation data from the available augmentation data based on user profile data and causes display in step of the augmentation data in a position registered to a position of the user content selection.

A state of being may be determined from data sensed of the user s body as well as information tracked from other applications and location data as well. For example based on location data and a calendar application a state of being application may indicate the user is early or late for a meeting. Image data of the user s eye from an eye tracking assembly also referred to as eye data may indicate the user is experiencing strong emotion while also being late. More than one state of being may apply.

Some examples of user physical characteristics which may be identified in eye data and linked with a state of being in the state of being rules are blinking rate pupil size and pupil size changes. In some embodiments the see through display device system may also have a biometric sensor like a pulse rate measuring sensor which presses against a user temple. One example of a physical characteristic which can indicate a state of being is blinking beyond a certain level as detected from image data glint data or sensors . Such blinking may indicate strong emotion. More simply a detected closed eyelid for a period of time can indicate a state of being as sleeping. A tearful state of the eye can also be detected from its reflectivity to indicate crying.

Pupil size and the pupil size stability may indicate a state of being sleepy or tired. Pupil size changes with lighting changes. If the pupil is treated as an ellipse if the lighting does not change one axis of the ellipse the major axis remains constant as it represents the diameter of the pupil. The width of the minor axis of the ellipse changes with gaze changes. The light meters not shown of the front facing cameras can detect lighting changes. Therefore pupil dilation due to factors other than lighting changes can also be determined. Sleepiness and sleep deprivation may cause the pupil s overall size to shrink if tired and the pupil size to become less stable fluctuating in size. Pupil dilation beyond a criteria under steady state lighting conditions may also indicate a reaction to an emotional stimuli. However pupil dilation may also be associated with activity.

Therefore software such as a client push service application discussed below may correlate the pupil dilation with at least a state of being data setting of strong emotion if from image data from the outward or physical environment facing cameras and small head movement indicated by the motion sensors indicate the user is not exercising for example the user appears to be sitting down in his or her office. The object being viewed as indicated by the image data from the outward facing cameras may provide more data e.g. a young child looking at a picture of a real dinosaur skeleton or the literary content item has been identified as a particular scary novel and based on time of day location data and field of view data over time the reader is home alone at night. In another example the image data indicated a view of one of the user s typical lunchtime running paths and the motion sensors indicated a running or jogging speed within a time period e.g. two minutes before a newspaper has been identified by the virtual printed content application in image data of the field of view. In this example the state of being data settings may include awake and neutral emotion and may include exercising and running as activity data settings depending on time periods from stopping for identifying an end of an activity.

In one embodiment either version client or server of the push application may include software for determining the state of being. The software may implement one or more heuristic algorithms based on the state of being rules to determine a state of being of the user based on both the eye data and image and audio data of the user s surroundings. The client push service application updates the current state of being data stored in user profile data in step .

A current user location based on sensor data of the display device system is determined in step . For example the current user location can be identified by GPS data image data of locations and even IP addresses of network access points associated with particular locations. In step the virtual printed content application identifies data available to the user of other persons linked to the user in user profile which data is related to the user content selection. For example if a literary content item is a scientific journal with an article by authors and one of the user s social networking friends commented on the article on his social networking site page the friend s comment would be identified.

In this embodiment the virtual printed content application in step assigns weightings to the user profile data based on augmentation data selection rules . In some examples the augmentation selection rules may prioritize items from user profile data. For example the following categories of user profile items may be prioritized in order starting from highest as identity data state of being data location data the current or most recent user content selection the literary content item being viewed and other users data related to the selection or item. In step the virtual printed content application selects virtual augmentation data from virtual augmentation data candidates for the user content selection based on the weighted user profile data. For example identity data may include languages known by the user. If the user only knows English virtual augmentation data with English text has a higher probability of being selected than Spanish language augmentation data. Also as per the example below for a five year old coloring in a coloring book pictorial augmentation data may be selected whereas simple text augmentation data may be displayed for a seven year old.

If the interline position is not suitable in step the virtual printed content application determines whether the augmentation data fits any margin positions and still satisfies visibility criteria. If one or more satisfactory margin positions are available the virtual printed content application selects a satisfactory margin position closest to the user content selection in step . If a satisfactory margin position is not available the virtual printed content application formats the augmentation data into one or more sections having the layout characteristics of the current section in step and in step displays the one or more sections with the formatted virtual augmentation data after the current section in the layout of the reading object. An example of a current section is a page. Layout characteristics for a page as a section include typical page layout settings. Some examples of such settings are margins page number placement interline spacing spacing around pictures font and font size. Some examples of the layout of the reading object may be a newspaper a book a magazine or a greeting card. In the example of a reading object as a book the one or more sections formatted with the virtual augmentation data may be made to appear as additional pages of the book.

In the example of the virtual augmentation data is formatted to appear within the perimeter of the reading object. In other examples a floating position may also be a position option. For example a margin space may appear to be extended to include a picture linked to a content selection for which annotations already take up the nearest margin space. In another example a floating explanatory paragraph may appear to pop up perpendicularly out of the page in an interline space near a concept it explains.

Besides displaying virtual data of a literary content item to appear as printed content some tasks can help a user navigate a virtual book like navigating a real book. An example of such a task is a page flipping task. illustrate two examples of different gesture actions which mimic natural human motion in flipping pages which provide a more realistic experience for the user.

From image data captured by the front facing cameras the gesture recognition engine identifies a starting thumb position in which the thumbnail is approximately parallel or flush with the edges of the left side of the pages so that image data shows the front of the thumbnail. A gesture filter defines the gesture for the left thumb to rotate left so that the thumbnail is detected rotating to the left in image data. The image data shows an approximate front view of the thumbnail rotating to a right side view of the thumbnail and the thumb as a whole. The flesh portion of the thumb behind the nail becomes more visible in image data as it rotates to its left and is recognized based on its color and pattern matching.

The front facing cameras capture data at a rate faster than the thumb moves for example in a range between 30 or 60 frames a second. The gesture recognition engine identifies for the virtual printed content application the speed and acceleration at which the width of the right side thumb is changing. This allows the virtual printed content application to flip the pages at the rate of speed of the user s flipping and speed up the flipping or slow down the flipping based on how fast the width is changing.

Device may also contain communications connection s such as one or more network interfaces and transceivers that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

As discussed above the processing unit may be embodied in a mobile device . is a block diagram of an exemplary mobile device which may operate in embodiments of the technology. Exemplary electronic circuitry of a typical mobile phone is depicted. The phone includes one or more microprocessors and memory e.g. non volatile memory such as ROM and volatile memory such as RAM which stores processor readable code which is executed by one or more processors of the control processor to implement the functionality described herein.

Mobile device may include for example processors memory including applications and non volatile storage. The processor can implement communications as well as any number of applications including the interaction applications discussed herein. Memory can be any variety of memory storage media types including non volatile and volatile memory. A device operating system handles the different operations of the mobile device and may contain user interfaces for operations such as placing and receiving phone calls text messaging checking voicemail and the like. The applications can be any assortment of programs such as a camera application for photos and or videos an address book a calendar application a media player an internet browser games other multimedia applications an alarm application other third party applications like a skin application and image processing software for processing image data to and from the display device discussed herein and the like. The non volatile storage component in memory contains data such as web caches music photos contact data scheduling data and other files.

The processor also communicates with RF transmit receive circuitry which in turn is coupled to an antenna with an infrared transmitted receiver with any additional communication channels like Wi Fi WUSB RFID infrared or Bluetooth and with a movement orientation sensor such as an accelerometer. Accelerometers have been incorporated into mobile devices to enable such applications as intelligent user interfaces that let users input commands through gestures indoor GPS functionality which calculates the movement and direction of the device after contact is broken with a GPS satellite and to detect the orientation of the device and automatically change the display from portrait to landscape when the phone is rotated. An accelerometer can be provided e.g. by a micro electromechanical system MEMS which is a tiny mechanical device of micrometer dimensions built onto a semiconductor chip. Acceleration direction as well as orientation vibration and shock can be sensed. The processor further communicates with a ringer vibrator a user interface keypad screen biometric sensor system a speaker a microphone a camera a light sensor and a temperature sensor .

The processor controls transmission and reception of wireless signals. During a transmission mode the processor provides a voice signal from microphone or other data signal to the RF transmit receive circuitry . The transmit receive circuitry transmits the signal to a remote station e.g. a fixed station operator other cellular phones etc. for communication through the antenna . The ringer vibrator is used to signal an incoming call text message calendar reminder alarm clock reminder or other notification to the user. During a receiving mode the transmit receive circuitry receives a voice or other data signal from a remote station through the antenna . A received voice signal is provided to the speaker while other received data signals are also processed appropriately.

Additionally a physical connector can be used to connect the mobile device to an external power source such as an AC adapter or powered docking station. The physical connector can also be used as a data connection to a computing device. The data connection allows for operations such as synchronizing mobile device data with the computing data on another device.

A GPS receiver utilizing satellite based radio navigation to relay the position of the user applications is enabled for such service.

The example computer systems illustrated in the figures include examples of computer readable storage devices. Computer readable storage devices are also processor readable storage device. Such devices may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable memory devices implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Some examples of processor or computer readable storage devices are RAM ROM EEPROM cache flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage memory sticks or cards magnetic cassettes magnetic tape a media drive a hard disk magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other device which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

