---

title: Establishing operating system and application-based routing policies in multi-mode user equipment
abstract: Techniques for establishing and implementing operating system and application-based routing policies for multi-mode wireless communication devices such as a user equipment (UE) are generally described herein. In some examples, information particular to the profile and platform configuration of the UE is communicated to an Access Network Discovery Function (ANDSF) server. The ANDSF server may provide an inter-system routing policy (ISRP) to handle appropriate network offloading actions for the particular application and device configuration. In some examples, the ISRP may be specific to flow-based or non-seamless based traffic offloading from certain software applications. The techniques described herein may be propagated from the ANDSF server and implemented in a variety of multi-mode UE mobile computing devices in connection with offloading policies established in a 3GPP Long Term Evolution/Long Term Evolution-Advanced (LTE/LTE-A) Evolved Packet Core (EPC) network architecture.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09526022&OS=09526022&RS=09526022
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09526022
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121211
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 679 627 filed on Aug. 3 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments pertain to operations and communications performed by communicating devices in wireless networks. Some embodiments relate to device information and routing policies established for data communications facilitated by a wireless network.

Carrier based wireless communication networks such as networks operating according to a standard from the 3GPP Long Term Evolution Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE LTE A standards family deploy mechanisms to assist the discovery and management of network policies. In LTE LTE A networks one such technique involves the use of Access Network Discovery Function ANDSF rules and policies within an evolved packet core EPC of the LTE LTE A system architecture. For example ANDSF rules and policies may be specified for multi mode user equipment UEs to discover non 3GPP access networks and assist multi mode UEs to establish a connection to a Wi Fi wireless local area network WLAN e.g. a network operating according to an IEEE 802.11 standard or a WiMax wireless wide area network e.g. a network operating according to an IEEE 802.16 standard . However existing policies do not address application specific requirements or device specific capabilities.

The following description and the drawings sufficiently illustrate specific embodiments to enable those skilled in the art to practice them. Other embodiments may incorporate structural logical electrical process and other changes. Portions and features of some embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. Embodiments set forth in the claims encompass all available equivalents of those claims.

Various techniques and configurations described herein enable the creation and operation of ANDSF based policies that may be deployed to address specific device network implementations and offloading use cases. The information factored within ANDSF policies may include application and device specific configurations including device type hardware version operating system type and version software application type and version and like UE configuration details. These UE configuration details may be used to establish and deploy a specific inter system routing policy ISRP for control of traffic routing and mobility among the applications installed within the UE.

In an LTE LTE A system configuration an ANDSF server may provide an inter system mobility policy used for assisting handover decisions an ISRP for routing IP traffic simultaneously over multiple radio access interfaces and discovery information for indicating non 3GPP access networks that may be available in the vicinity of the UE to assist the UE in connecting to such networks. Several different policies can be specified as part of ISRP for IP Flow Mobility offloading techniques.

As an example of traffic routing and mobility certain applications capable of communication over multiple wireless network interfaces in a multi mode user equipment such as WLAN and Cellular may choose to route all traffic over one interface WLAN versus another. ANDSF based policies are controlled by a carrier network operator and are intended to compliment such scenarios with rule based management of network offloading. ANDSF mechanisms may be used to deliver policies and policy information to UEs on behalf of operators for a variety of reasons and situations such as managing offloading and network access at certain times of day in certain areas or for certain flows.

However current ANDSF based policies do not provide mechanisms to adequately address application specific preferences and policies. For example a video based application may choose use of a WLAN connection whereas a voice application may choose use of a cellular connection. Further the preferences and policies used to perform offloading may be dependent on the particular version or configuration of the UE and whether flow based or non seamless offloading is desired or allowed for particular applications.

In one example various Data Identification fields are proposed for use with the ANDSF management object MO including the addition of various Application Identifiers at the ANDSF server to allow an ISRP to support traffic identification based on an application identity. Current updates to ISRP enable the increased use and handling of application identity as an identification of IP traffic. Relevant information used to determine an appropriate application identity not only includes the particular application version or application configuration but also related fields including the UE version UE platform and hardware configuration UE operating system and the like. The presently described data configurations and exchange mechanisms therefore enable the communication of a detailed application identity and associated data handling policies and procedures.

Wireless network communication connections A B A B among the various mobile devices A B may be facilitated using either the carrier based network system or the local area based network system in connection with the deployment of various offloading policies and preferences. The offloading policies and preferences may be communicating using one or more ANDSF policy s communicated from an ANDSF server via the carrier based network system and network connections A B .

The ANDSF server may be facilitated within a service provider network of the carrier network. The service provider network may include various components of an Evolved Packet Core EPC and other components of the 3GPP LTE LTE A network including various services and a P GW Packet Data Network PDN Gateway . Data traffic offloaded to the local area based network system may be communicated back to the service provider network through a connection with the P GW . Thus wireless network communications offloaded to another network architecture wireless network connections A B may be used to access functionality of the service provider network .

The mobile device C is depicted as communicating data with a first software application App 1 in the 3GPP network data and with a second application App 2 in the non 3GPP network data . The deployment of data from the various software applications to the appropriate network is facilitated in connection with an ISRP policy including one or more application policies A provided from the ANDSF server . The mobile device C is configured to implement the ISRP policy to specify IP flow mobility applications based on application identifiers such as an indication of App 1 versus App 2 .

The particular application identifiers and set of application policies A in the ISRP policy are communicated to the mobile device C within an ANDSF MO from the ANDSF server received via the non offloaded e.g. 3GPP LTE LTE A network. The ANDSF MO may be structured in an eXtensible Markup Language XML format and may be pulled from or pushed to the mobile device C. To determine the appropriate application policies to deploy in the ISRP policy information on the UE and appropriate applications may be communicated to the ANDSF server . In one example a UE profile having appropriate UE and application information A is also communicated in the ANDSF MO to the ANDSF server .

Use of the application policies A in a deployed ISRP policy may be used to address an application s network usage at the UE. The application policies A may be customized to a wide variety of network usage cases and scenarios and include rules for conducting a specific access or set of accesses from an identified application to a chosen network or network type. For example consider video codec playback in a multimedia playback application. In some scenarios the UE may play low quality video that has a preference for being downloaded from a 3GPP access network. If high quality playback in a high definition or higher resolution format is desired the preference may be to have the application use a Wi Fi or other secondary wireless network. The application policies A may be used to identify the application uniquely and associate the application with access type rules based on carrier network requirements and preferences.

The modification to the ANDSF MO to specify and deploy application based routing policies may be provided in connection with two aspects first a definition in the UE Profile node tree A containing the specific UE hardware configuration operating system operating system version information and other UE operating information and second a definition of an ApplicationId leaf defined for deployment in the ISRP node tree A as further described herein and illustrated in node trees in respectively .

The definition in the UE Profile node tree A may be used to communicate general UE and application operation information via the ANDSF MO as illustrated in the UE profile communicated in . A node specifying the ApplicationId for specific application policies is used in the ANDSF MO deployed in an ISRP for both flow based and for non seamless WLAN offload mechanisms.

The ISRP node branches specify a mechanism to identify the traffic generated by a specific application. The flow distribution container can have one or more flow distribution rules. In the ForFlowBased node for an IFOM service as shown in these distribution rules include traffic distribution rules for UEs in connection with an IFOM offloading mechanism. In the ForNonSeamlessOffload node for the Non seamless Offload as shown in these distribution rules include traffic distribution for UEs in connection with a non seamless offloading mechanism.

In one example ISRP nodes are defined for use under the ForFlowBased node in connection with definitions for App ID node Platform node PlatformApps node and Platform specificAppID node . The definition of these nodes may be provided as follows 

In another example the ISRP nodes are defined for use under the ForNonSeamlessOffload node in connection with definitions for App ID node Platform node PlatformApps node and Platform specificAppID node . The definition of these nodes may be provided as follows 

The UE Profile node structure is used to define the UE configuration and enable the UE to indicate its configuration to the network. In order to cope with the multiple operating system support requirement the ANDSF server provides the UE with policies containing the application ID for the corresponding operating system running on the UE and the hardware platform type in order to properly identify the applications. With the UE Profile node structure the UE provides the ANDSF with the supported operating system and hardware configuration information to inform the ANDSF to obtain or download the policies with the application ID used by the supported platform and thus identify the application to which the policy refers.

The UE may support multiple platform configurations. The platform configuration communicated with the ANDSF server may indicate the applicable operating system or execution environment along with the corresponding version information. In one example the ANDSF server uses the user profile information from the UE Profile node structure to establish and communicate a particular ISRP e.g. an ISRP customized to flow based policy node tree or non seamless offload policy node tree for use to classify application traffic. The ISRP is used for only those applications that are supported by the UE platform configuration based on the information specified in the UE Profile node structure .

The UE updates the nodes in the UE Profile node structure so that the ANDSF server can read this information when interacting with the UE. The information in the UE Profile node structure may be retrieved by the ANDSF server during an Open Mobile Alliance Device Management OMA DM exchange when the server reads the MO of the UE for example.

As illustrated in the MO has a node UE Profile node indicating the configuration of the UE and including the UE Profile node structure . The UE Profile node structure specifies in detail the hardware platform of the UE and the operating system or execution environment used by or available to the UE. The update of the information contained in these nodes does not necessarily imply any interaction with the ANDSF server . However the MO enables the ANDSF server to be informed about the hardware configuration of the UE the operating system and version of the operating system installed on the UE and other relevant UE profile information. Based on this information the ANDSF server can generate and provide specific application identifiers corresponding to UE configuration and thus customize particular ISRP policies to the specific application identifiers .

As a specific example of implementation the following nodes and leaf objects of the UE Profile node and the UE Profile Node Tree A may be provided under the ANDSF MO formatted structured node object 

Further specification for the format of the UE Profile node or the Platform identifier may factor specific hardware operating system or software configurations. As an example the Platform identifier can specify one of the following values 

Although the preceding identifier example values are specific to certain device implementations these example values are provided for illustration purposes and not for limitation. A variety of other device hardware operating system and software implementation values may be specified by the Platform identifier or other information in the UE Profile node structure . These may include values specific to configurable adaptable or upgradable hardware and software configurations.

In further examples the ISRP may be configured to manage an update policy used to provide an update of the distribution rules including updates for profile information for various UEs and UE applications.

Flowchart depicts operations for communicating and obtaining the UE profile information including providing the UE profile information from the UE to the ANDSF server operation and determining the device configuration information at the ANDSF server from the UE profile information operation . The UE profile information may be communicated in an ANDSF MO object or in other data provided to the ANDSF server prior to deployment of the ISRP policy.

Next operations for determining the values of the particular ISRP policy include updating the ISRP based on the device configuration information operation and providing the ISRP from the ANDSF server to the UE operation . The ISRP may be communicated as a node of an ANDSF MO object communicated to the UE. The ISRP may be pushed to or pulled from the ANDSF server or other service of the EPC.

The ISRP is updated to factor the hardware and software configuration of the UE but may provide multiple types of offload policy values to apply. Determining the appropriate set of policy values in the ISRP may include determining whether a seamless or non seamless based traffic offloading is occurring operation . Upon selection of the appropriate set of policy values in the ISRP the application policy values for offloading may be extracted from the ISRP operation e.g. from the APP ID node in the ISRP section specific to seamless or non seamless based offloading .

Although the preceding examples were provided with reference to a specific ANDSF server and policy usage in a 3GPP network it will be understood that the use and deployment of identifying application information for network offloading may be provided in a variety of networks and using other types of deployment mechanisms. For example non ANDSF structures may be used to communicate all or portions of the policy information for specific software applications. Further multi mode user equipment may include any device capable of communication on the primary carrier network and a secondary offloaded network including personal computers notebooks and laptops smartphones tablets mobile hotspots media players and the like.

As described herein various methods or techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as flash memory CD DVD ROMs hard drives portable storage devices or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via an interconnect e.g. a link a bus etc. . The computer system may further include a video display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the video display unit input device and UI navigation device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker an output controller a power management controller and a network interface device which may include or operably communicate with one or more antennas transceivers or other wireless communications hardware and one or more sensors such as a GPS sensor compass location sensor accelerometer or other sensor.

The storage device includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi 3G and 4G LTE LTE A or WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Other applicable network configurations may be included within the scope of the presently described communication networks. Although examples were provided with reference to a local area wireless network configuration and a wide area Internet network connection it will be understood that communications may also be facilitated using any number of personal area networks LANs and WANs using any combination of wired or wireless transmission mediums.

The embodiments described above may be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. Embodiments may also be implemented as instructions stored on a computer readable storage device which may be read and executed by at least one processor to perform the operations described herein. A computer readable storage device may include any non transitory mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a computer readable storage device may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices and other storage devices and media.

It should be understood that the functional units or capabilities described in this specification may have been referred to or labeled as components or modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component or module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component or module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like. Components or modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component or module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component or module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the component or module and achieve the stated purpose for the component or module.

Indeed a component or module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components or modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components or modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Additional examples of the presently described method system and device embodiments include the following non limiting configurations. Each of the following non limiting examples may stand on its own or may be combined in any permutation or combination with any one or more of the other examples provided below or throughout the present disclosure.

Example 1 includes the subject matter embodied by a method performed at an Access Network Discovery and Selection Function ANDSF server for establishing application based network routing policies the method comprising obtaining user equipment UE profile information from a UE profile node in an ANDSF management object the UE profile information specific to a configuration of a UE determining an application policy for offloading data to a secondary network for a particular software application operating in the configuration of the UE defining an application node within an inter system routing policy ISRP node of the ANDSF management object the application node providing the application policy for offloading data to the secondary network and providing the ISRP to the UE for implementation of the application policy for offloading data to the secondary network.

In Example 2 the subject matter of Example 1 can optionally include providing the ISRP to the UE for implementation by transmitting the ANDSF management object from the ANDSF server to the UE wherein the application node includes a first application node defined for a flow based policy of the ISRP node and a second application node defined for a non seamless offload based policy of the ISRP node.

In Example 3 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 2 can optionally include obtaining UE profile information from a UE profile node in the ANDSF management object by obtaining the ANDSF management object from the UE during an Open Mobile Alliance Device Management OMA DM exchange and reading the UE profile node from the ANDSF management object and wherein the ANDSF management object is structured in an eXtensible Markup Language XML format.

In Example 4 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 3 can optionally include a new application node included within the ISRP for each application of the UE identified for inclusion in the application policy for offloading data to the secondary network.

In Example 5 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 4 can optionally include the UE profile information specific to a configuration of a UE including information to identify a plurality of software applications specific to the configuration of the UE.

In Example 6 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 5 can optionally include the information to identify a plurality of software applications specific to the configuration of the UE indicating one or more of software version hardware version hardware architecture or operating system.

In Example 7 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 6 can optionally include the application node including an application identifier the application identifier used to uniquely identify the particular software application operating in the configuration of the UE.

In Example 8 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 7 can optionally include the ANDSF server being provided within an Evolved Packet Core operating in accordance with a standard from a 3GPP Long Term Evolution or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE LTE A standards family and wherein the secondary network is a wireless local area network operating in accordance with a standard from an IEEE 802.11 standards family.

Example 9 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 8 to include the subject matter embodied by a multi mode user equipment UE device comprising a transceiver arranged to perform communications with a carrier based wireless network and with a wireless local area network and processing circuitry arranged to implement one or more application based network routing policies provided from an Access Network Discovery and Selection Function ANDSF server maintained within an Evolved Packet Core of the carrier based wireless network the processing circuitry arranged to perform one or more instructions to transmit to the ANDSF server UE profile information including a hardware and software configuration of the UE receive from the ANDSF server an application network routing policy for offloading data of a software application arranged for operation on the UE the application network routing policy included in an inter system routing policy ISRP of an ANDSF management object and perform offloading of data generated from the software application to the wireless local area network in connection with the ISRP and the application network routing policy for offloading data.

In Example 10 the subject matter of Example 9 can optionally include wherein the UE profile information including information for one or more of software version hardware version hardware architecture or operating system.

In Example 11 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 9 10 can optionally include the application network routing policy including a plurality of nodes for a plurality of software applications arranged for operation on the UE the plurality of software applications including the software application and wherein each of the plurality of software applications includes an identifier specific to the particular software application and an operating environment of the particular software application.

In Example 12 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 9 11 can optionally include the application network routing policy including a first application network routing policy defined for a flow based policy of the ISRP and a second application network routing policy defined for a non seamless offload based policy of the ISRP.

In Example 13 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 9 12 can optionally include the first application network routing policy and the second application network routing policy each including a node for the software application including a plurality of varying application policies based on the hardware and software configuration of the UE.

In Example 14 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 9 13 can optionally include the carrier based wireless network operating in accordance with a standard from a 3GPP Long Term Evolution or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE LTE A standards family and wherein the wireless local area network operates in accordance with a standard from an IEEE 802.11 standards family.

Example 15 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 14 to include the subject matter embodied by a method performed by a user equipment UE for implementing an application based network routing policy the method comprising providing to an ANDSF server UE profile information for a hardware and software configuration of the UE receiving from the ANDSF server an application policy for offloading data for a software application arranged for operation on the UE the application policy included in an ANDSF management object and specific to the hardware and software configuration of the UE and operating the software application in connection with the application policy for offloading data by routing data in the software application to an offloading network according to specifications of the application policy.

In Example 16 the subject matter of Example 15 can optionally include the application policy for offloading data including a first application policy defined for a flow based policy within an inter system routing policy and a second application policy defined for a non seamless offload based policy within the inter system routing policy.

In Example 17 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 15 16 can optionally include determining whether a flow based or non seamless based traffic offloading is available in the software application and selecting the first application policy or the second application policy based on the determination.

In Example 18 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 15 17 can optionally include operating a second software application in connection with the application policy for offloading data by routing data in the second software application to the offloading network according to specifications of the application policy the application policy including a second application policy for offloading data for the second software application.

In Example 19 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 15 18 can optionally include the UE profile information on a hardware and software configuration of the UE being provided in a management object from the UE during an Open Mobile Alliance Device Management OMA DM exchange.

Example 20 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 19 to include the subject matter embodied by an Evolved Packet Core or like system configuration in wireless communication with a user equipment UE via a primary wireless network established by an evolved Node B eNodeB comprising an Access Network Discovery and Selection Function ANDSF server in operable communication with the eNodeB and arranged to manage an ANDSF management object for controlling offloading of data traffic from one or more software applications operating in the UE to a remote secondary wireless network and to exchange the ANDSF management object with the UE a packet data network gateway in operable communication with the eNodeB and the remote secondary wireless network and arranged to facilitate the offloading of the data traffic to the remote secondary wireless network wherein the ANDSF server is arranged to perform operations to access UE profile information included in a user equipment profile node of the ANDSF management object the UE profile information specific to an operating configuration of the UE define an application node for inclusion in an inter system routing policy ISRP node of the ANDSF management object the application node providing one or more application specific policies for offloading data for the software applications operating in the UE and the application specific policies controlling offloading to the remote secondary wireless network for the software applications operating in the UE and provide the ANDSF management object including the ISRP node to the UE for implementation of the application specific policies.

In Example 21 the subject matter of Example 20 can optionally include the ANDSF server being arranged to perform operations to determine the application specific policies for offloading data for a particular software application of the software applications based on a hardware and software operating configuration of the particular software application indicated by the UE profile information.

In Example 22 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 20 21 can optionally include the hardware and software operating configuration of the particular software application indicated by the UE profile information including information identifying the particular software application using one or more of software version hardware version hardware architecture or operating system.

In Example 23 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 20 22 can optionally include the ISRP node providing specifications for flow based offloading and for non seamless based offloading.

In Example 24 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 20 23 can optionally include the application node including an application identifier the application identifier used to uniquely identify the software applications operating in the UE wherein the ANDSF management object is structured in an eXtensible Markup Language XML format.

In Example 25 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 20 24 can optionally include the Evolved Packet Core conducting operations in accordance with a standard from a 3GPP Long Term Evolution or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE LTE A standards family wherein the remote secondary wireless network is a wireless local area network operating in accordance with a standard from an IEEE 802.11 standards family.

The Abstract is provided to allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

