---

title: Method and apparatus for building sales tools by mining data from websites
abstract: A website mining tool is disclosed that extracts information from, for example, a company's website and presents the extracted information in a graphical user interface (GUI). In one embodiment, web pages from a website are stored in, for example, computer memory and a structure of the web pages is identified. A plurality of blocks of information is then extracted as a function of this structure and a category is assigned to each block of information. The elements in the blocks of information are then displayed, for example to a salesperson, as a function of these categories. In another embodiment, Document Object Modeling parsing is used to identify the structure of the web pages. In yet another embodiment, a support vector machine is used to categorize each block of information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08560518&OS=08560518&RS=08560518
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property II, L.P.
number: 08560518
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121130
---
This application is a continuation of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 088 935 filed Apr. 18 2011 which is a continuation of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 318 183 filed Dec. 23 2005 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 949 646 on May 24 2011 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This application relates generally to websites and more particularly to mining websites for information.

In many types of sales environments it is desirable for a salesperson to understand various aspects of a customer or potential customer prior to a sales call or visit. Websites associated with the customer as well as those of any competitors of the customer frequently provide a convenient method of obtaining such information. Corporate websites typically require significant time and effort to design and are often designed based on a thorough analysis of the market of the company and the competitive landscape. Typically such sites among other things describe general information about the company the products and services the company provides contact information as well as a large variety of e commerce or customer care applications. All of this information is relevant to a salesperson s understanding of a corporation. However when these websites are large or the salesperson is limited by time reading through a company s website to obtain this information is often not practical.

Software tools useful for extracting information from websites are known. Some such tools typically either download all or desired portions of websites for off line viewing. Other tools known as crawlers visit websites and scan the website pages content and other information in order to create entries for an index. Entire sites or specific pages can be indexed and selectively visited. Thus a map of a website can be created or information on that website can be searched by referring to the index.

The present inventors have recognized that while prior tools for extracting information from websites were advantageous in many aspects they were also limited in certain regards. Specifically while such tools were capable of downloading or indexing entire web pages these tools were not able to extract information relevant to the sales function in the most efficient manner. These tools also were unable to provide information in a manner that would permit a salesperson to quickly gain an overall understanding of the products services and other relevant information of the potential customer.

The present invention substantially solves these problems. In accordance with the present invention a website mining tool extracts information from for example a company s website and presents the extracted information in a graphical user interface GUI . In one embodiment web pages from a website are loaded in for example computer memory and a structure of the web pages is identified. A plurality of blocks of information is then extracted as a function of this structure and a category is assigned to each block of information. The elements in the blocks of information are then displayed for example to a salesperson as a function of these categories. In another embodiment Document Object Modeling parsing is used to identify the structure of the web pages. In yet another embodiment a support vector machine is used to categorize each block of information.

These and other advantages of the invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reference to the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.

Once the hierarchical structure of a webpage is known then at step the categories of information on the web pages are determined to facilitate understanding of the content of the website. As discussed previously typical corporate websites present information on multiple web pages. Information conveyed on websites can be identified not only by the structure of the links between pages but also by the semantic structure of these pages. Therefore in order to identify these links in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention desired categories of information are identified into which the information blocks on a web page are categorized. An information block is defined as a coherent topic area according to its content. Illustratively the different semantic categories for classifying web page information blocks may include page titles forms table data frequently asked questions answers contact numbers bulleted lists headings heading lists heading content and other such categories.

Once such categories of information are identified at step information blocks are assigned to those categories. Such category assignment may be considered a binary classification problem. Specifically for each pair of information blocks a set of features is developed to represent the difference between them and then the feature set is classified into the information block boundary class or the non boundary class. The two information blocks in the pair are separated into two distinct information blocks if a boundary is identified between them. In order to identify the boundaries between such classifications a learning machine such as a Support Vector Machine SVM is illustratively used. An SVM is an algorithm that is capable of determining boundaries in a historical data pattern with a high degree of accuracy. As is known in the art SVMs are learning algorithms that address the general problem of learning to discriminate between classes or between sub class members of a given class. SVMs have been found to be much more accurate than prior methods of classifying information blocks due to the SVM s ability to select an optimal separating boundary between classifications when many candidate boundaries exist. SVMs are well known and the theory behind the development and use of such SVMs will not be discussed further herein. One skilled in the art will recognize that many different categorization methods may be used to identify the boundaries between classifications as described above with equally advantageous results. The end result however is that distinct information blocks on a website are accurately categorized. Referring once again to once the information blocks have been identified at step specific elements of information are extracted from those blocks.

Next in addition to determining new seeds from identified products and services at step parallel analysis is used to identify even more products and services. Illustratively by referring to the phrase Determination Service a new service named Billing Determination Service is identified. Each time a new product or service is identified new potential seeds and phrases are identified and other elements of information having those seeds and phrases are identified. This information extraction technique is then applied to each category of information in order to identify and relate elements of information in those categories.

The foregoing Detailed Description is to be understood as being in every respect illustrative and exemplary but not restrictive and the scope of the invention disclosed herein is not to be determined from the Detailed Description but rather from the claims as interpreted according to the full breadth permitted by the patent laws. It is to be understood that the embodiments shown and described herein are only illustrative of the principles of the present invention and that various modifications may be implemented by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Those skilled in the art could implement various other feature combinations without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. For example while the methods for data extraction and display described hereinabove are useful for a salesperson they may also be useful by a company in designing a structured web search functionality for that company s website. Used in this manner a company s customer for example could search a website and extract relevant information in a structured cascaded fashion as described herein. One skilled in the art will be able to devise numerous different uses for the extraction and display methods in accordance with the principles of the present invention.

