---

title: Terminal and method for offering termination-side services
abstract: A terminal and a method are described herein for offering termination-side services to a user. In one embodiment, the terminal (e.g., cellular terminal, enterprise or residential wireline device, mobile device) is configured to provide one or more termination-side services (e.g., color ring back tone, voice mail, call diversion, hold before answer) to the user. The terminal is further configured to enable the user to directly setup and manage the one or more termination-side services without interacting with the telecommunication network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08917834&OS=08917834&RS=08917834
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (publ)
number: 08917834
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20120711
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 506 673 filed on Jul. 12 2011. The contents of this document are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to a terminal and a method for offering termination side services to a user. In one embodiment the terminal e.g. cellular terminal enterprise or residential wireline device mobile device is configured to provide one or more termination side services e.g. color ring back tone voice mail call diversion hold before answer to the user. The terminal is further configured to enable the user to directly setup and manage the one or more termination side services without interacting with the telecommunication network.

The following abbreviations are herewith defined at least some of which are referred to within the following description of the prior art and the present invention.

Today s telecommunication networks both wireline and wireless offer a variety of different services known as termination side services to a user called party . For example a user might subscribe for a termination side service known as color ring back tone in which the telecommunication network plays a custom ring back tone often a song clip to a calling party while the user s phone rings. The user called party may have a call forward busy no answer service in which the telecommunication network routes unanswered or undeliverable calls to a voice mail system. The telecommunication network may also provide an incoming call screening service which bars certain calls from reaching the user called party such as anonymous calls or calls from a black list of specific telephone numbers.

While the implementations of these termination side services may differ across technologies and service providers generally these termination side services are offered from within the telecommunication network and require coordination across multiple network elements. For example a termination side service running in a wireless network or an IN trigger associated with the service might be configured on the HLR or HSS and then downloaded to a call server. The call server is configured to handle the call routing and interact with other network elements such as Voice Mail Systems CRBT PRBT servers SCPs intelligent peripherals and the like to provide the particular termination side service.

The existing solutions for termination side services can be complex to deploy especially in a multi vendor environment. Nonetheless various solutions for termination side services already exist and their operation is well understood in the telecommunications field. However the termination side services which have solutions located within the telecommunication network are largely out of the reach of the end users. For instance the termination side services can be difficult to configure or control by requiring the end user subscriber to dial in to an automated voice response system to configure the service adjust settings listen to recorded messages etc. Some termination side services offer web based interfaces but these can be just as cumbersome and they may not be easily accessible from a mobile device.

Another problem with the existing solutions is that the termination side services are disjointed. For instance each termination side service has its own user interface and its own configuration options. So the end user subscriber must learn to use each service separately and cannot coordinate their activities. For example suppose the end user subscriber wants to configure a custom ring back tone and custom voice mail greeting for a given caller. Assuming the telecommunication network allows this level of customization the end user subscriber must separately configure each of these termination side services. Or suppose the end user subscriber receives a harassing voice mail message and wants to block future calls from the calling party. Listening to the harassing voice mail message and setting up call barring are done in different locations in the telecommunication network.

As a result of being network based and service operator controlled the termination side services lack flexibility in terms of options and customization by the end user subscriber . Furthermore it is impractical for a service provider to offer multiple voice mail solutions from different vendors for example because of the cost involved in purchasing deploying and maintaining multiple systems that provide the voice mail solutions. Likewise it is cost prohibitive for a service operator to install new software upgrades or deploy new features to enhance the termination side services they already offer to their end users subscribers . These situations ultimately limit the options available to the end users subscribers . Accordingly there has been and is a need to address these problems and other problems to enhance how termination side services can be provided to an end user subscriber . These needs and other needs are satisfied by the present invention.

A terminal and a method that address the aforementioned problems by offering termination side services to a user are described in the independent claims of the present application. Advantageous embodiments of the terminal and method have been described in the dependent claims of the present application.

In one aspect the present invention provides a terminal used by a user and configured to interact with a telecommunication network. The terminal comprises at least a network interface a user interface a processor and a memory. The network interface e.g. telephony API is configured to interact with the telecommunication network. The user interface e.g. graphical user interface screen touch pad speaker microphone is configured so the user can interact with the terminal and vice versa. The processor is configured to execute processor executable instructions stored in a memory to implement a user agent. The user agent is configured to perform the following operations 1 provide one or more termination side services to the user and 2 enable if needed the user by utilizing the user interface to directly setup and manage the one or more termination side services without interacting with the telecommunication network. An advantage of the present invention is that the terminal s user agent provides termination side services such as personalized ring back and voice messaging that are integrated with the terminal and directly managed by the user without having to interact with the telecommunication network.

In another aspect the present invention provides a method for offering one or more termination side services on a terminal used by a user and configured to interact with a telecommunication network. The method implemented by a user agent on the terminal comprising the steps of 1 providing one or more termination side services to the user and 2 enabling if needed the user by utilizing a user interface on the terminal to directly setup and manage the one or more termination side services without interacting with the telecommunication network. An advantage of the present invention is that the terminal s user agent provides termination side services such as personalized ring back and voice messaging that are integrated with the terminal and directly managed by the user without having to interact with the telecommunication network.

Additional aspects of the invention will be set forth in part in the detailed description figures and any claims which follow and in part will be derived from the detailed description or can be learned by practice of the invention. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as disclosed.

Referring to there is a diagram illustrating the basic components of a terminal configured in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As shown the terminal is used by a user and is configured to interact with a telecommunication network . The telecommunication network can be a wire line telecommunication network a wireless telecommunication network or a combination thereof. The terminal may be a cellular terminal e.g. a 2G 3G mobile smartphone an enterprise or residential wireline device e.g. an IMS phone or a mobile IMS terminal e.g. VoIP client on a 3G 4G mobile device .

The terminal includes at least a network interface a user interface a processor and a memory . The network interface e.g. telephony API is configured to interact with the telecommunication network . The user interface e.g. graphical user interface screen touch pad speaker microphone is configured so the user also referred to herein as called party and subscriber can interact with the terminal and vice versa. The processor is configured to interact with the memory which stores processor executable instructions and to execute the stored processor executable instructions to implement a user agent that provides one or more termination side services . . . . The terminal includes many other well known components but for clarity only the components which are needed to explain and enable the present invention have been described in detail herein.

The user agent is a unique combination of hardware software that performs a method which includes the following steps operations 1 provide one or more termination side services . . . to the user step and 2 enable if needed the user by utilizing the user interface to directly setup and manage the one or more provided termination side services . . . without interacting with the telecommunication network step . As described in greater detail below the user agent may provide and enable the user to directly setup and manage one or more of the following exemplary termination side services . . .

One handset resident termination side service is Color Ring Back Tone CRBT . Unlike the traditional CRBT service which is provided by the telecommunication network this service generates customizable ring back tones from the end user terminal . The user might select a particular song recorded message or video clip to play to a calling party originating party while they wait for the user to answer the call. In this case the terminal itself plays the selected ring back tone without requiring any intervention by the telecommunication network . The handset based color ring back tone service is accomplished by answering the call as soon as it comes in and proceeding to alert the user while playing the CRBT. An exemplary scenario for providing the handset based color ring back tone service to the user is described below with respect to .

Referring to there is a signal flow diagram illustrating an exemplary way that the handset based color ring back tone service can be provided to the user in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In this example the handset based color ring back tone service can be provided to the user in accordance with the following steps 

Referring to there is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary method implemented by the terminal s user agent to provide the handset based CRBT service to the user in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At step the terminal s user agent provides the handset based CRBT service to the user . At step the terminal s user agent enables the user by utilizing the user interface to directly setup and manage the handset based CRBT service without interacting with the telecommunication network FIG. A s step . For instance the terminal s user agent enables the user to directly setup and manage the handset based CRBT service by allowing the user to select content to be played to a calling party if an incoming call is received from the calling party step . If desired the user can select different content to be played if and when incoming calls are received from different calling parties step . After the enabling step the terminal s user agent at step will at some point in time intercept the incoming call from the calling party see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent plays the selected content to the calling party without requiring any intervention by the telecommunication network see FIG. A s steps . At step the terminal s user agent alerts the user via the user interface about the incoming call while the selected content is being played to the calling party see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent receives an accept call command from the user via the user interface see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent ceases the play of the selected content to the calling party see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent establishes the call between the calling party and the user see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent when one of the parties or chooses to end the call will then disconnects the call between the calling party and the user see FIG. A s steps .

Another handset based service is voice mail recording with an audible screening option. This is similar to the existing voice mail functionality provided by wireline answering machines. The calling party leaves a message during which time a message is recorded directly on the answering machine and also played through an external speaker. At any time while the message is being left the user may pick up the call. The difference between such a service provided by using an answering machine and the present invention is that the handset based voice mail service may be offered on the terminal e.g. mobile phone as opposed to a fixed answering machine. Additionally the handset based voice mail service is implemented solely in the terminal and does not require dedicated hardware. It should be appreciated that voice mail in the present invention could also refer to video mail. Hence when receiving a video call the terminal might play an audio visual voice mail greeting and then record a video mail message for the user . An exemplary scenario for providing the handset based voice mail service to the user is described below with respect to .

Referring to there is a signal flow diagram illustrating an exemplary way that the handset based voice mail service can be provided to the user in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In this example the handset based voice mail service can be provided to the user in accordance with the following steps 

Referring to there is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary method implemented by the terminal s user agent to provide the handset based voice mail service to the user in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At step the terminal s user agent provides the handset based voice mail service to the user . At step the terminal s user agent enables the user by utilizing the user interface to directly setup and manage the handset based voice mail service without interacting with the telecommunication network FIG. A s step . For instance the terminal s user agent enables the user to directly setup and manage the handset based voice mail service by allowing the user to record a default greeting or select a pre recorded greeting from a list to be played to a calling party if an incoming call is received from the calling party step . After the enabling step and if the network interface is able to interact with the telecommunication network the terminal s user agent at step will at some point in time intercept an incoming call from the calling party see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent plays the greeting to the calling party see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent records a message from the calling party see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user aunt while recording the message also plays the message to the user and gives the user an option to accept the incoming call from the calling party see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent in the event the user accepts the incoming call would cease the recording of the voice message and connect the audio stream and video stream if applicable from the calling party to the user see FIG. A s steps . At step the terminal s user agent when one of the parties or chooses to end the call will disconnect the call between the calling party and the user see FIG. A s steps .

One possible drawback of using the terminal to provide the handset based voice mail service is that the terminal may not always be accessible or connected to the telecommunication network to receive the incoming calls from calling parties . For example the terminal may be switched off or in airplane mode so as not to be available to the telecommunication network . Or the terminal may also be unavailable to the telecommunication network because of a lack of adequate RF coverage at the time when an incoming call is made by the calling party . This drawback may be solved by providing the handset based voice mail with network assist service . In this solution the terminal s user agent works with a network based voice mail system to provide uninterrupted voice mail service to the user . The network based VMS handles calls that are not answered by the terminal and then forwards the record message to the terminal once it becomes available to the telecommunication network . The terminal s user agent enables the enhanced voice mail service by providing the necessary instructions along with the recorded greeting or selected greeting to the networked based VMS . An advantage of this scenario is that the user is able to configure the enhanced voice mail service by interacting only with the terminal and not having to interact with the network based VMS . Plus any message that is deposited on the network based VMS is later retrieved by the terminal s user agent so that the user can access all of their messages in the same place regardless of whether the message is left directly on the terminal or if the message is left on the network based VMS . An exemplary scenario for providing the handset based voice mail with network assist service to the user is described below with respect to .

Referring to there is a signal flow diagram illustrating an exemplary way that the handset based voice mail with network assist service can be provided to the user in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In this example the handset based voice mail with network assist service can be provided to the user in accordance with the following steps 

Referring to there is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary method implemented by the terminal s user agent to provide the handset based voice mail with network assist service to the user in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At step the terminal s user agent provides the handset based voice mail with network assist service to the user . At step the terminal s user agent enables the user by utilizing the user interface to directly setup and manage the handset based voice mail with network assist service without interacting with the telecommunication network FIG. A s step . For instance the terminal s user agent enables the user to directly setup and manage the handset based voice mail with network assist service by allowing the user record a default greeting or select a pre recorded greeting from a list to be played to a calling party if an incoming call is received from the calling party see step . At step the terminal s user agent interacts with the network based VMS to synchronize user settings and if applicable upload the particular greeting to be played to the calling party in case the terminal s network interface is not able to receive the incoming call from the calling party .

After the enabling step the interacting step and if the terminal s network interface is able to interact with the telecommunication network see box A then the terminal s user agent performs steps and as described next. At step the terminal s user agent will at some point in time intercept an incoming call from the calling party see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent plays the greeting to the calling party see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent records a message from the calling party see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent while recording the message also plays the message to the user and gives the user an option to accept the incoming call from the calling party see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent in the event the user accepts the incoming call would cease the recording of the voice message and connect the audio stream and video stream if applicable from the calling party to the user see FIG. A s steps . At step the terminal s user agent when one of the parties or chooses to end the call will disconnect the call between the calling party and the user see FIG. A s steps .

After the enabling step the interacting step and if the terminal s network interface is not able to interact with the telecommunication network see box B then the telecommunication network redirects the incoming call from the calling party to the network based VMS which plays the greeting to the calling party and records the message from the calling party . Once the terminal s network interface is able to interact with the telecommunication network then the terminal s user agent performs steps and as described next. At step the terminal s user agent interacts with the network based VMS and retrieves the recorded message if any associated with the calling party see FIG. A s step . The retrieved messages are stored on the terminal . Once the messages are downloaded from the network based VMS the terminal s user agent may optionally delete the message s from the network based VMS . Alternatively the terminal s user agent may leave the message s on the network based VMS so they can serve as a backup until the user deletes the message s on the terminal At step the terminal s user agent alerts the user about the retrieved recorded message see FIG. A s step .

Another handset based service is call diversion or barring based on the context of the user called party . The context refers to the user s status as determined by the user agent without interacting with the user . For example the user may previously indicate that they do not wish to receive calls while they are in meetings or otherwise busy. The user agent at the time of the incoming call can check the user s electronic calendar s to determine if the user is attending a meeting or is otherwise busy. The electronic calendar s may be a calendar kept on the terminal and or a calendar which is accessible online e.g. Internet or via a network connection of some sort to the user agent . In this example when the user is busy as indicated on the electronic calendar the calling party is sent by the user agent directly to voice mail or played a special message indicating that the user called party is busy. The message might even specify when the user called party will become free based on the information retrieved from the electronic calendar. In other examples the user agent might rely on various techniques for determining the user s context or status such as for example using the time of day the terminal s current GPS location the terminal s velocity the ambient noise around the terminal . In any case the user agent implements the same process which is 1 determine the user s status 2 based on the status accept the incoming call normally or provide a special treatment. An exemplary scenario for providing the handset based context driven call diversion service to the user is described below with respect to .

Referring to there is a signal flow diagram illustrating an exemplary way that the handset based context driven call diversion service can be provided to the user in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In this example the handset based context driven call diversion service can be provided to the user in accordance with the following steps 

Referring to there is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary method implemented by the terminal s user agent to provide the handset based context driven call diversion service to the user in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At step the terminal s user agent provides the handset based context driven call diversion service to the user . At step the terminal s user agent enables the user by utilizing the user interface to directly setup and manage the handset based context driven call diversion service without interacting with the telecommunication network FIG. A s step . For instance the terminal s user agent enables the user to directly setup and manage the handset based context driven call diversion service by allowing the user to indicate one or more situations criteria during which if an incoming call is received from a calling party then the incoming call is to be diverted from the user step . After the enabling step the terminal s user agent at step will at some point in time intercept an incoming call from the calling party see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent determines a status of the user by interfacing with at least one of the information providers on the terminal and possibly remote information providers which are not on terminal see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent compares the status to the one or more situations criteria see FIG. A s step . If there is a match between the status and the one or more situations criteria then the terminal s user agent at step answers the incoming call and informs the calling party that the user is not currently answering calls see FIG. A s step . If there is not a match between the status and the one or more situations criteria then the terminal s user agent at step alerts the user via the user interface about the incoming call from the calling party see FIG. A s step .

Another handset based service is hold before answer where the user after being alerted about an incoming call selects an option to have the user agent tell the calling party to please wait e.g. because the user is stuck in a meeting or another conversation . This results in the calling party hearing a special message followed by either silence or hold music or a video clip for some period of time. When ready the user can answer the incoming call and speak with the calling party . As with the handset based CRBT service and the handset based voice video mail services and the user agent answers the call on behalf of the user . The user agent plays one or more audio video files to the calling party while the call remains on hold from the standpoint of the user . Once the user is ready to answer the call then the user agent connects the call through to the user . An exemplary scenario for providing the handset based hold before answer service to the user is described below with respect to .

Referring to there is a signal flow diagram illustrating an exemplary way that the handset based hold before answer service can be provided to the user in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In this example the handset based hold before answer service can be provided to the user in accordance with the following steps 

Referring to there is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary method implemented by the terminal s user agent to provide the handset based hold before answer service to the user in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At step the terminal s user agent provides the handset based hold before answer service to the user note the user if desired does not necessarily need to setup and manage the handset based hold before answer service . At step the terminal s user agent intercepts an incoming call from a calling party see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent alerts the user via the user interface about the incoming call from the calling party see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent receives a reply from the user indicating that the user accepts the incoming call but wants to place the incoming call on hold before the user communicates with the calling party see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent places the incoming call on hold see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent while placing the incoming call on hold plays a message to the calling party indicating the user plans to answer the incoming call see FIG. A s step . At step the terminal s user agent upon the user accepting the call functions to establish the call between the calling party and the user see FIG. A s steps . At step the terminal s user agent when one of the parties or chooses to end the call will disconnect the call between the calling party and the user see FIG. A s steps .

Referring to there is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary method implemented by the terminal s user agent to provide the handset based auto attendant IVR service to the user in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At step the terminal s user agent provides the handset based auto attendant IVR service to the user note the user if desired does not necessarily need to setup and manage the handset based auto attendant service . At step the terminal s user agent intercepts an incoming call from the calling party . At step the terminal s user agent presents the calling party with a list of options. This might include for example an option to alert the user that this is an urgent call e.g. by ringing or buzzing even when the terminal is in silent mode . This might include an option to create a voice to text message or to select a canned message from a list of choices to be delivered to the user . Since the handset based auto attendant IVR service runs directly on the terminal which could be a smartphone there are numerous other possibilities including giving the option to the calling party to request the location or status in a meeting in a moving vehicle in a noisy environment etc. of the user assuming the user has given permission to the user agent to present such options to the calling party . A key difference between implementing the handset based auto attendant IVR service on the terminal versus using a network based IVR service is the ease with which the user agent can interact with the calling party and the user simultaneously.

From the foregoing one skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the present invention involves placing a user agent on the terminal so that the user agent can interact with calling parties on behalf of the user . The user agent can provide services that might otherwise reside solely within the telecommunication network . At a high level the present invention is accomplished by providing a hardware software user agent on the terminal where the user agent intercepts all incoming calls and if needed interacts with the calling party while simultaneously alerting the user . The user agent effectively shifts control from the telecommunication network to the terminal and allows the offering of one or more termination side services . . . such as personalized ring back and voice messaging that are integrated with the terminal and directly managed by the user subscriber .

Basically the present invention focuses on the accessibility of termination side services e.g. color ringback voice mail call screening from the perspective of the user subscriber . One advantage of the present invention is that it does not necessitate changes in the telecommunication network . Instead the present invention enables various services to be offered directly on the terminal with no special interaction with the telecommunication network . However as discussed above there are circumstances where some of the provided termination side services e.g. the handset based voice mail with network assist service the handset based context driven call diversion service may benefit from having the terminal interact with a telecommunications network based component.

It should be appreciated that various termination side services . . . can be provided directly on the end user s terminal even if the terminal supports only traditional circuit based service i.e. not IMS . It s worth noting that some IMS networks may in fact restrict early media interactions prior to answer. Thus by having the user agent answer the call directly it is possible to bypass these restrictions with the understanding that the user may be billed for additional minutes of use . Other advantages associated with the present invention include 

Although multiple embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated in the accompanying Drawings and described in the foregoing Detailed Description it should be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but instead is also capable of numerous rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the present invention that as has been set forth and defined within the following claims.

