---

title: Method and system for providing social media content synchronized to media presentation
abstract: A computer system provides a method for delivering a video stream to a viewer and delivering, in synchrony with the video stream, social media content created during the current and previous viewings of the video stream by first-time viewers of the video stream.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09215503&OS=09215503&RS=09215503
owner: Ensequence, Inc.
number: 09215503
owner_city: Portland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121116
---
This invention relates generally to providing social media content to consumers of audio visual media content and more specifically to methods and systems that filter and synchronize social media content during presentation of audio visual media content.

Since the earliest days of mass media enthusiasts have developed means and methods for sharing their enthusiasm with like minded individuals. Fan clubs social gatherings conventions and public relations events have all served to enhance the enjoyment of mass media for those individuals with high interest.

The advent of computer mediated communication has provided new opportunities for fan involvement. In the earliest days of computer networking user generated sites such as Usenet allowed devotees to share comments insights and criticisms of popular media content. This trend has continued contemporary media producers often develop on line fan sites that provide additional content background material and related information as well as present a forum for enthusiasts to share comments and questions.

Among fans of serial content such as television dramas one strong preference is the avoidance of any material which might prematurely reveal plot details of unseen content. Due to the availability of recording means some fans may view serialized content at a delay from the original presentation of the content. Most fans of continuing dramas prefer to experience the material na ve of the upcoming content thereby maximizing the anticipatory and revelatory aspects of the experience. Accordingly such fans seek to avoid exposure to any ancillary content created by an experienced viewer that might reveal plot details prior to viewing. Systems that assist such fans have been described in the patent literature. For example U.S. Patent Application 2007 0157249 describes a system and method for monitoring a user s viewing progress of media in a series then filtering peripheral media content to be consistent with the user s viewing progress in the series. Similarly U.S. Patent Application 2012 0079517 describes a system and method for modifying a service transaction according to the viewership status of a user relative to a series of episodes. The modification may include withholding content such as posts by other viewers related to episodes of the series which the user has not yet viewed.

User generated content is one form of metadata about media content. Other forms of metadata may be provided by the original content producer. Such revelatory content may bear or be assigned a temporal relationship to the media content. For example a viewer comment about a scene in an episode is most relevant when presented in synchrony with the scene. Various systems have been described that deal with the synchronization of metadata with media content. For example U.S. Patent Application 2009 0208180 describes a method for controlling the revelation of metadata items based on the viewing timeline of the primary media content. U.S. Patent Application 2012 0082427 describes a method of receiving secondary media content such as user generated content assigning a time stamp to the secondary media content relative to the primary media content then allowing for delayed playback of the primary and secondary media content streams based upon the time stamp.

With the advent of interactive social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter the consumption of audio visual media content such as broadcast television has acquired a novel social dimension. Viewers of a television presentation may generate comments about the content in real time. These comments are then presented to other viewers of the same content thereby enhancing their experience of the program content. Such comments may provide opinions about the content secondary information about the actors or themes of the content jokes or anecdotes related to the content or simply personal observations about any subject. Viewer comments may be shared among a group of friends or to a larger anonymous group of viewers. The sharing of such comments creates a mediated social interaction among scattered viewers reminiscent of but more flexible than the old fashioned family gathering around the television set. U.S. Pat. No. 8 051 230 describes such a system allowing the sharing of spoken comments among users via a communications network. In accordance with the method of U.S. Patent Application 2012 0082427 the real time comments may be assigned time stamps and be recorded with the associated time stamps so that a viewer who accesses the primary media content at a later time may be presented with the recorded comments the secondary media content in synchrony with the primary media content upon playback.

An avid fan of a television series may wish to view and participate in the real time social media commentary when viewing an episode but also avoid unwitting exposure to spoilers. For an American viewer this desire is complicated by a basic feature of the broadcast infrastructure in the United States. Standard network content is broadcast three times in the US broadcast system first for the Eastern time zone one hour later for the Central and Mountain time zones and two hours after that for the Western time zone. Accordingly fans in the Central and Mountain time zones may wish to view user generated content originating from the Eastern time zone the content having been time stamped and recorded for replay in synchrony with the video content as well as de novo user generated content originating from the Central and Mountain time zones. Fans in the Western time zone would similarly experience a combination of recorded and de novo user generated content. A problem that arises in this circumstance is that a viewer on the East coast may continue to make comments about an episode after the broadcast has finished on the East coast such comments may be picked up by a system displaying social media content during the broadcast to the Central Mountain or Western time zones and be admixed with comments originating from na ve viewers in those time zones. Thus comments from experienced viewers containing spoiler information may be inappropriately presented to na ve viewers contrary to their desire to remain unaware of forthcoming content.

A proposed solution to this dilemma is presented in U.S. Patent Application 2011 0010774 hereinafter 774 which describes a method for extracting meaning information from a message and determining whether to present the messages based on the meaning of the message. However the method of 774 is inadequate to solving the above stated problem owing to the known difficulty of accurately interpreting the linguistic content of a message and the computational burden required to perform such analysis.

What is desired is a method and system that appropriately filters and combines social media content for delayed presentation to a na ve viewer.

The present invention provides a system and method for playback of a video stream with associated media content.

One aspect of the invention teaches a system and method for playback of media content along with a video stream comprising presenting a video stream to a first user device retrieving from storage first media content associated with the video stream along with a time stamp relative to the video stream presenting the first media content with the video stream at the time indicated by the time stamp to a second user device receiving from a third user device second media content associated with the video stream determining if the second media content is generated by a na ve viewer of the video stream and if the second media content is generated by a na ve viewer of the video stream associating a time stamp relative to the video stream with the second media content storing the second media content with the associated time stamp and presenting the second media content with the video stream to the second user device.

Another aspect of the invention teaches a method for determining whether a viewer of a video stream is na ve based on whether the time zone of the third user device is different than the time zone of the first user device.

Yet a further aspect of the invention teaches a method for determining whether a viewer of a video stream is na ve based on whether the viewer has provided media content during a prior presentation of the video stream.

In a still further aspect of the invention the first and second media content are conveyed to the second user device by a means different than the means by which the video stream is conveyed to the first user device.

In a still further aspect of the invention a system for the presentation of video content comprises a stream server module configured to serve a video stream to a first user device a media content storage and retrieval module configured to store and retrieve media content and time stamps relative to the time of an associated video stream a content presentation module configured to retrieve media content from the media content storage and retrieval module based on the relative time of the video stream and present the media content to a second user device a content receiver module configured to receive media content from a third user device and a content analysis module configured to determine if received media content was created by a na ve viewer of the video stream wherein the stream server module serves a video stream to a first user device synchronous with the presentation of the video stream the content presentation module retrieves associated first media content from the media content storage and retrieval module based on the relative time of the video stream and presents the retrieved first media content to a second user device during presentation of the video stream the content receiver module receives second media content associated with the video stream from the third user device upon receipt of the second media content the content analysis module determines if the second media content received from the third user device was created by a na ve viewer of the video stream and upon determining that the received second media content was created by a na ve viewer of the video stream the media content storage and retrieval module stores the received second media content with an associated time stamp and the content presentation module presents the received second media content to the second user device.

In a still further aspect of the invention the content server module is a DVD or Blu ray disc player.

In a still further aspect of the invention the content presentation module receives relative timing information from the stream server module.

In a still further aspect of the invention the content presentation module receives relative timing information from the first user device.

In a still further aspect of the invention the determination of whether the second media content is created by a na ve viewer is based on whether the time zone of the third user device is different than the time zone of the first user device.

In a still further aspect of the invention the determination of whether the second media content is created by a na ve viewer is based on whether any of the stored first media content was created by the creator of the second media content at a relative time later than the relative time of the second media content.

In a still further aspect of the invention the determination of whether the second media content is created by a na ve viewer is based on whether any of the stored first media content was received from the third user device at a relative time later than the relative time of the second media content.

In a still further aspect of the invention the first and second media content are conveyed to the second user device by a means different than the means by which the video stream is conveyed to the first user device.

In a still further aspect of the invention the first and second user devices are the same device. One scenario imagined with this aspect of the invention is that a television is used to display the video content and to display the social media content.

In a still further aspect of the invention the second and third user devices are the same device. One scenario imagined with this aspect of the invention is that social media content is displayed on a tablet second screen that is also used to generate new social media content.

In a still further aspect of the invention the first second and third user devices are the same device. One scenario imagined with this aspect of the invention is that video content and social media content are both displayed on a device such as a tablet computer that is also used to generate new social media content.

The foregoing and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more readily apparent from the following detailed description of a preferred embodiment of the invention that proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings.

By way of overview embodiments of the present invention provide a method and system for playback of media content along with a video stream comprising presenting a video stream to a first user device retrieving from storage first media content associated with the video stream along with a time stamp relative to the video stream presenting the first media content with the video stream at the time indicated by the time stamp to a second user device receiving from a third user device second media content associated with the video stream determining if the second media content is generated by a na ve viewer who has not previously seen the video stream and if the second media content is generated by a na ve viewer of the video stream associating a time stamp relative to the video stream with the second media content storing the second media content with the associated time stamp and presenting the second media content with the video stream to the second user device.

As used herein the term video stream refers to video or video with associated audio conveyed in a single delivered stream of content. The video and audio content may be compressed or uncompressed. A video stream may be presented in analog or digital form and may be delivered by any appropriate means including inter alia as a physical media or as an evanescent photonic electrical or electromagnetic signal delivered by wired or wireless conveyance. The video stream may be broadcast multicast or unicast to many a few or one user device respectively. Secondary media content may be presented using the same or different means as the video stream with which the secondary media content is associated. Furthermore the video stream with secondary media content may be received at the user device recorded and played back for display at a later time while remaining within the spirit and scope of the current invention.

As used herein the terms media content and secondary media content refer to any object or collection of objects and or data that can be stored retrieved and subsequently rendered on a user device. The media content may include inter alia text sound graphics still images or video alone or in combination. Media content may be delivered by any appropriate means including inter alia as a physical media or as an evanescent photonic electrical or electromagnetic signal delivered by wired or wireless conveyance.

As used herein the terms social media and social media content refer to an instance or a collection of instances of data or objects generated in the context of social interaction by formal semi formal or informal means and distributed to or accessible by the participants of the social interaction. The participants in a social interaction may be known or unknown to one another. An item of social media content may further be accessible to others beyond the immediate participants in the interaction. A social interaction may but need not be mediated by a social media device which may be a desktop laptop or netbook computer a tablet computer a mobile phone smart phone Apple Touch Apple iPad Android Droid or similar mobile device a smart television or any other electronic device configured for the creation of social media content. Social media content may incorporate textual numerical visual auditory or other data. A social interaction may involve inter alia an email exchange a twitter exchange a twiki posting and comments or responses to the twiki posting a blog posting and comments or responses to the blog posting a website posting and comments or responses to the website posting submissions to a newsgroup a review posting on a commerce website and comments or responses to the review posting a video posted to YouTube or other public website and comments or responses to the video posting and similar on line activities. A social interaction may include inter alia an exchange of written correspondence photographs or printed material. A social interaction may include inter alia the display in a public forum of written printed or photographic material or the like and responses to such display in similar form or by other means. The authorship of an item of social media content may be known through direct indirect or inferential means or may be unknown. Social media content may but need not be produced in the course of employment that is it may be produced as a consequence of professional or of non professional activity.

As used herein the phrase na ve viewer refers to a person who is viewing a video stream for the first time that is without having previously viewed the video stream and therefore lacking foreknowledge of the details of the content of the video stream. A na ve viewer would not be able to describe detailed elements of plot exposition or outcome of the events contained in the video stream as a consequence of not having experienced those elements by viewing the content of the stream. Thus for example a na ve viewer of a sporting event would not know the final score of the sporting event.

As used herein the phrases offset time and media offset time refer to a period of time relative to the normal timeline of presentation of media. Specifically the media offset time of a specific point in media content is the period of time that would elapse from the beginning of presentation of the media content to the specific point within the media content when the media content is presented in linear fashion according to its defined format. Media offset time starts at zero at the beginning of the media content increases monotonically through the media content and is entirely defined by the format of the media content. For example the media offset time of a specific frame of video may be determined by counting the number of frames of video between the beginning of the video to the specific frame the frame count can be converted to a clock time by reference to the frame rate of the video content. The media offset time of a particular point in the media content is the same regardless of the wall clock time at which or the manner by which the media content is presented.

The various aspects of the claimed subject matter are now described with reference to the annexed drawings. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description relating thereto are not intended to limit the claimed subject matter to the particular form disclosed. Rather the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter.

Furthermore the disclosed subject matter may be implemented as a system method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer or processor based device to implement aspects detailed herein. The term article of manufacture or alternatively computer program product as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter.

The term computer is used herein to refer to any device with processing capability such that it can execute instructions. Those skilled in the art will realize that such processing capabilities are incorporated into many different devices and therefore the term computer includes PCs servers mobile telephone tablet computers personal digital assistants and many other devices.

The methods described herein may be performed by software in machine readable form on a storage medium. The software can be suitable for execution on a parallel processor or a serial processor such that the method steps may be carried out in any suitable order or simultaneously.

The description acknowledges that software can be a valuable separately tradable commodity. The description is intended to encompass software which runs on or controls dumb or standard hardware to carry out the desired functions. It is also intended to encompass software which describes or defines the configuration of hardware such as HDL hardware description language software as is used for designing silicon chips or for configuring universal programmable chips to carry out desired functions.

The steps of the methods described herein may be carried out in any suitable order or simultaneously where appropriate. Aspects of any of the examples described herein may be combined with aspects of any of the other examples described to form further examples without losing the effect sought.

A household located in the Central time zone is associated with a clock that is set to Central Standard Time CST which is one hour behind EST. Household receives the episode one hour later than the episode was distributed in the Eastern time zone. The episode content is received by household over an Internet Protocol Television IPTV system. During the broadcast of the episode to household the processing and storage system communicates social media content including social media content that was received from households in the Eastern time zone and stored in processing and storage system . Social media content is conveyed to household in synchrony with the episode content by presenting each piece of social media content at the media offset time associated with the social media content in processing and storage system the media offset time being measured relative to the broadcast of the episode content in the Central time zone. Viewers in household receive and display the social media content using a tablet computer . Newly created social media content from a viewer viewing the episode in another household in the Central time zone is also stored by the processing and storage system along with the associated media offset time at which the social media content is received by processing and storage system the media offset time being determined relative to the broadcast of the episode content in the Central time zone. Newly created social media content is conveyed to household as part of social media content . Any social media content created by viewers in household can likewise be stored and distributed to any household receiving the episode in the Central time zone. Preferentially any social media content created by a viewer in the Central time zone is distributed to all households receiving the episode in the Central time zone with minimal delay after being received by processing and storage system .

In the depicted scenario viewers in the Eastern time zone can create social media content and the social media content is immediately shared with other viewers in the Eastern time zone so that the timeliness of the social media content is maintained among the viewers. A comment made by one viewer about a particular scene in the episode content is seen by other viewers with minimal delay thereby enhancing their experience of the episode content. In this scenario the broadcast in the Eastern time zone is the first broadcast of the television episode so all comments made during the broadcast are known to come from na ve viewers who have never seen the content before. When the episode is broadcast an hour later in the Central time zone the social media content generated in the Eastern time zone is conveyed to households in the Central time zone in synchrony with the episode content through the use of media offset times associated with each piece of social media content. By this means a comment about a particular scene in the episode content will be seen along with the scene duplicating the viewer experience of the social media content in the Eastern time zone. Viewers in the Central time zone have not received this episode before. If viewers in the Central time zone create additional social media content while viewing the episode this new social media content is shared with viewers in the Central time zone with minimal delay and is added to the stored social media content to be synchronously distributed with later broadcasts of the same episode.

The scenario in illustrates that television content can be distributed in a variety of ways. The scenario further illustrates that social media content can be created and displayed on a variety of devices and that the creation and display of social media content may be connected with or distinct from the display of primary video content.

Viewer E who lives in the Eastern time zone views an episode being aired in that time zone from 8 00 PM EST to 9 00 PM EST. During the viewing of the episode viewer E creates a comment about the episode at time 8 07 PM EST and creates another comment at time 8 42 PM EST. Since this is the first time the episode has been presented the comments are known to come from a na ve viewer. The comments are recorded along with the time stamps denoting the relative time within the content that the comments were created and are delivered to other viewers e.g. viewers and of episode in the Eastern time zone. In this example a viewer may create a comment using a social media site or service by typing on a laptop or notebook computer an iPad or a smart phone by sending a text message using a mobile phone or smart phone by entering the comment directly using the remote control of a smart television or by any other method known in the art for creating social media content.

Starting at 9 00 PM EST episode where episode may correspond to the same media content as episode but is broadcast at a different time is broadcast within the Central and Mountain time zones and Viewer C who lives in the Central time zone starts viewing episode at 8 00 PM CST. Viewer C has not previously viewed the episode and is thus na ve. Viewer C and other viewers viewing episode not shown are presented with the comments made by Viewer E in synchrony with the video content. Comment originally created at 8 07 PM EST is delivered to Viewer C and other viewers in the Central and Mountain time zones as comment at 9 07 PM EST 8 07 PM CST . Comment originally created at 8 42 PM EST is delivered to Viewer C and other viewers in the Central and Mountain time zones as comment at 9 42 PM EST 8 42 PM CST . Thus delayed comments and appear in synchrony with the portions of episode originally viewed by Viewer E when comments were created. Viewer C in turn creates comment at 9 28 PM EST 8 28 PM CST this comment is determined to come from a na ve viewer and so is recorded along with the appropriate time stamp and presented to other viewers of episode in the Central and Mountain time zones.

Starting at 11 00 PM EST the episode is broadcast within the Pacific time zone and Viewer W who lives in the Pacific time zone starts viewing episode at 8 00 PM Pacific Standard Time PST . Viewer W has also not previously viewed the episode and is thus na ve. Viewer W and other viewers viewing episode in the Pacific time zone not shown are presented with comments made by Viewer E as well as comment made by Viewer C in synchrony with the video content. Comment originally created at 8 07 PM EST is delivered to Viewer W and other viewers in the Pacific time zone at 11 07 PM EST 8 07 PM PST comment originally created at 9 28 PM EST 8 28 PM CST is delivered to Viewer W and other viewers in the Pacific time zone at 11 28 PM EST 8 28 PM PST and comment originally created at 8 42 PM EST is delivered to Viewer W and other viewers in the Pacific time zone at 11 42 PM EST 8 42 PM PST . Viewer W creates comment at 11 50 PM EST 8 50 PM PST the comment is determined to come from a na ve viewer and is recorded along with the appropriate time stamp and presented to other viewers of episode in the Pacific time zone.

The inventive system incorporates the feature of receiving and storing social media content with associated time stamps. Thus following the broadcast of episode in the Pacific time zone all comments created by na ve viewers during the original broadcasts of the episode are stored by the inventive system and are available for presentation during subsequent viewing of the episode. Thus if the episode video stream were presented at a later time on a later day to a viewer for display on a user device recorded comments can be presented to a user device in accordance with their respective time stamps. More specifically at 7 minutes into the video stream comment is presented to a user device at 28 minutes into the video stream comment is presented to a user device at 42 minutes into the video stream comment is presented to a user device and at 50 minutes into the video stream comment is presented to a user device.

In the inventive system if the video stream is presented non linearly to a user device for example if the user utilizes the features of pause rewind or fast forward in the delivery and display of the video stream the social media content is presented in accordance with the non linear presentation of the video stream. That is the time of presentation of secondary social media content is made to correspond to the relative time of the video stream corresponding to the time stamp of each element of social media content regardless of the rate of presentation of the video stream and regardless of any non linear progression through the video stream. If the video stream is paused the presentation of social media content is paused. If the video stream is rewound and replayed an element of social media content may be presented more than once as the corresponding relative time of the video stream is reached. If the video stream is displayed at a faster than normal rate elements of social media content may be presented more quickly than the original rate of presentation of the elements of social media content.

Where comments are made outside of the broadcast or first playback time period it is preferred to treat such social media content as not originating from a na ve user. Such comments are shown by elements and in where the social media content is produced by viewer C after the broadcast or any local playback by viewer C on their digital video recorder DVR had occurred. That is if a new element of social media content is received for which the source location of the new social media content is not within the reception region of a current broadcast of the video stream then the new social media content is judged not to be from a na ve viewer since the creator of the new social media content cannot be viewing the current broadcast of the video stream and must therefore have seen the video stream previously.

During the presentation of video stream the user of a user display device may generate social media content through the use of a social media device . The social media content is conveyed through social network and is retrieved from the social network by media content server . Based on attributes of social media content media content server determines if the social media content originated from a na ve viewer of video stream . If social media content originated from a na ve viewer of video stream social media content is stored in media content store along with a time stamp signaling the relative time within the served video stream at which the social media content was created and social media content is presented as media content to one or more user display device .

Video stream may be stored in video server or may be retrieved by video server from a media store not shown in . Video stream may be conveyed to user display device as an evanescent photonic electrical and or electromagnetic signal delivered by wired or wireless conveyance or may be conveyed as a physical artifact such as a Digital Versatile Disc DVD Blu ray disc thumb drive portable hard drive or by other means known in the art. Video stream and media content may be conveyed by the same or by different means to user display device . Video stream and media content may be conveyed to the same user display device or may be delivered to different user display devices . For example video stream may be delivered to and displayed on a television set while media content may be delivered to and displayed on a tablet computer operated by a viewer of the television set. In an alternative embodiment media content may be conveyed to social media device for display.

Social media device may be integral to user display device or may be a separate physical unit. Social media device may be a desktop laptop or netbook computer a tablet computer a mobile phone smart phone Apple Touch Apple iPad Android Droid or similar mobile device a smart television or any other suitable electronic device known in the art. Social media content may be generated through hardware and or software embodied within social media device or may be generated through hardware and or software embodied within a server accessible through a wired or wireless network or may be generated through a combination of hardware and or software embodied within social media device and within a server accessible through a wired or wireless network or by other means known in the art. Social media content may be delivered indirectly from social media device to media content server through a wired or wireless social network or may be delivered directly from social media device to media content server or may be partly conveyed indirectly through social network and partly conveyed directly to media content server . Metadata describing social media content including for example the name location time zone viewing status and viewing history of the user of social media device may be provided to media content server from social network may be provided to media content server directly from social media device may be incorporated within social media content or may be acquired by other means by media content server . Metadata describing social media content may be used by media content server in determining whether social media content is generated by a na ve viewer of video stream . The metadata associated with the social media content may include for example the identity of the creator and the time the location and the time zone of the point at which the social media content was created.

The functions of video server media content server and media content store may be realized through hardware software or a combination of hardware and software may be realized by separate systems or by a single system in any combination and may be realized at a single location or at distant locations. Communication between video server and media content server and between media content server and media content store may be by any wired or wireless means including inter alia a wired computer bus serial port parallel port Ethernet USB FireWire or wireless hub or by any combination of such means. Similarly communication between social media device and social network between social media device and media content server and between social network and media content server may be by any wired or wireless means known in the art or by any combination of such means.

In an alternative embodiment of the system when video stream is conveyed by means of a physical artifact such as a DVD or Blu ray disc to user display device user display device provides relative timing information to media content server to allow media content server to retrieve associated media content from media content store in a synchronous manner. In this case the display of video stream by user display device may involve non linear presentation as discussed above.

In the embodiment of system depicted in media content server includes content receiver module for receiving social media content . Content receiver module may receive social media content directly from social media devices through a wired or wireless communication channel. Alternatively media content server may receive social media content indirectly by reading tweets from a Twitter feed by retrieving data using the Facebook Platform application programming interface API by monitoring a Really Simple Syndication RSS feed by downloading email from a mail server by receiving Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP POST GET or PUT messages by receiving telephonic text messages or by any combination of these or other data transfer and extraction methods known in the art. Social media content may be retrieved by content receiver module contemporaneously with the creation of social media content or may be retrieved by content receiver module at some delay after the time of creation of social media content . When social media content is received metadata associated with the social media content are retrieved including for example the identity of the creator and the time location and time zone of the point at which the social media content was created. Metadata may be retrieved using the same means used to retrieve social media content or may be retrieved by other means such as those described above or by other means known in the art. For example if social media content is received from a cable television subscriber through a cable television return path metadata may be retrieved from the cable television multisystem operator MSO . As a further example if social media content is received as a text message from a mobile device metadata may be retrieved from the mobile device service provider.

Content receiver module passes received social media content with any associated metadata to content analysis module . Content analysis module uses the social media content and associated metadata to determine if social media content originated from a na ve viewer of video stream . Exemplary methods for determining if social media content originates from a na ve viewer of media content are described below in conjunction with the discussion of . If content analysis module determines that social media content originated from a na ve viewer of video stream content analysis module passes social media content with associated metadata and relative timing information to media content storage and retrieval module for storage in media content store . Additionally if content analysis module determines that social media content originated from a na ve viewer of video stream content analysis module passes social media content to content presentation module for delivery in media content .

Throughout the delivery of video stream content presentation module queries media content storage and retrieval module to determine if any social media content is stored in media content related to video stream with a time stamp corresponding to the current relative time of video stream . If such social media content exists content presentation module receives social media content from media content storage and retrieval module and delivers media content to user display device in synchrony with the delivery of video stream .

Content presentation module may receive relative timing information directly from stream server module . In an alternative embodiment where stream server module is a broadcast stream providing video stream according to a broadcast schedule content presentation module may receive broadcast schedule information from stream server module or by other means and may determine the relative timing of video stream based on current clock time. In yet another alternative embodiment where video stream is provided as a physical artifact such as a DVD or Blu ray disc content presentation module may receive relative timing information directly from user display device .

The functions of modules may be provided by hardware software or any combination of hardware and software. Further the modules may be provided by a single physical system or by multiple physical systems. The systems providing the functions of modules may be located in a single physical location or may be located in multiple physical locations. Communication among modules and between modules and external devices may be through any wired or wireless means known in the art. All such alternatives and others apparent to those skilled in the art fall within the spirit and scope of the invention.

At step the test to determine whether new social media content was created by a na ve viewer is based upon metadata associated with the new social media content and may be based on the history of streaming the video stream. For example as depicted in in a broadcast environment a video stream may be broadcast multiple times in different time zones. If a new element of social media content is received for which the source location of the new social media content is not within the reception region of a current broadcast of the video stream then the new social media content is judged not to be from a na ve viewer since the creator of the new social media content cannot be viewing the current broadcast of the video stream and must therefore have seen the video stream previously. This case is illustrated in where comment is created by Viewer C during a period in which the video stream is not being broadcast. Comment can thus be judged not to be from a na ve viewer and is not stored or displayed.

Note that the test performed at a step is in contradistinction to the method of 774 in which processing of social media content requires analyzing the meaning of the social media content. In the inventive method and system the determination of whether new social media content was created by a na ve viewer is made independent of the specific data contained within the social media content. The inventive method and system thereby avoid the problematic and error prone step of determining the precise meaning of social media content.

In the inventive method and system the test at a step utilizes metadata associated with the new social media content that is information about the social media content or the circumstances of the creation of the social media content rather than the information contained within the social media content itself. Multiple types of metadata from multiple sources may be used in this test. For example if a new element of social media content is received for which the source location of the new social media content is within a first time zone that received an earlier broadcast of the video stream but the new element of social media content was created while the video stream is being broadcast within a second later time zone then the new social media content is judged not to be from a na ve viewer since the creator of the new social media content may have seen the video in the first time zone prior to the current broadcast in the second time zone. This case is illustrated in where comment is created by Viewer C during a period in which the video stream is being broadcast in the Pacific time zone. Since Viewer C is physically located in the Central time zone Viewer C could have seen the video stream at a prior broadcast and comment can be judged not to be from a na ve viewer.

Other methods of determining the viewing history of the author of an element of social media content may be used at a step when determining whether an element of social media content was created by a na ve viewer of a video stream. For example a record of use of an interactive television application broadcast during the broadcast of a television episode may indicate that a user device was used to view the television episode and that the user of the device may thereby be judged to have previously viewed the television episode. If the user device were to be used subsequently to create an element of social media content then the element may be judged not to come from a na ve viewer.

The following example will illustrate an exemplary implementation of a step to determine whether specific social media content was authored by a na ve viewer. In this exemplary system media content server is collecting social media content for a specific television show My New Show . The broadcast schedule for My New Show is available to media content server and specifically to content analysis module with the schedule specifying the time interval during which the video content is broadcast in each time zone. Media content receiver module collects social media content by using a Twitter API to retrieve tweets from www.twitter.com details of the Twitter API are available at dev.twitter.com retrieved Sep. 27 2012 . Specifically media content receiver module subscribes to a public stream from twitter.com filtered with a hashtag associated with the television show typically mynewshow . The content of the public stream comprises a set of tweets encoded using the Javascript Object Notation JSON protocol which is parsed by the media content receiver . The JSON content of a single tweet will contain the text of the tweet encoded for example as 

The JSON content of the tweet will also include metadata about the tweet. One of the elements of metadata describes the author of the tweet encoded for example as shown in

Another element of the metadata stipulates the time at which the tweet was authored encoded for example as 

The metadata might also include information about the location from which the tweet originated encoded for example as 

Media content receiver processed each tweet to retrieve the textual content of the tweet and to obtain a unique identifier for the author of the tweet from the id str element of the user metadata a time zone for the author from the time zone element of the user metadata a location from which the tweet originated from the coordinates metadata and the time at which the tweet was authored from the created at metadata . These metadata are passed with the textual content of the tweet to content analysis module to make a determination if the author of this tweet is a na ve viewer.

As an example of how such a determination may be performed by using the time at which the tweet was authored content analysis module could determine that the tweet was authored during the first time the video content was broadcast and that the author must have been a na ve viewer of the video content.

As a further example content analysis module could use the coordinate data to determine the time interval during which the video content was broadcast at that location and determine from the time zone and creation date if the tweet was authored during the broadcast of the video content at the origination location. If the tweet was authored during the proper time interval for the origination location content analysis module could determine that the tweet was authored by a na ve viewer.

As a yet further example content analysis module can use the unique author identifier to determine whether this author has posted previous tweets referencing the television show hashtag. If this author posted a message containing the hashtag at an earlier time from a location in a different time zone during the interval during which the video content was being broadcast within that time zone then content analysis module could determine that the author is not na ve since the author could have viewed the content at that different location during the earlier broadcast.

When performing the test for a na ve viewer at a step content analysis module can use any of the exemplary rules described above alone and in combination as well as additional rules described herein and other rules that would be obvious to those skilled in the art.

The test for a na ve viewer at a step may be permissive or exclusionary. That is the test may be permissive and determine that a viewer is na ve unless specific evidence demonstrates otherwise or the test may be exclusionary and determine that a viewer is not na ve unless specific evidence demonstrates otherwise. For example in an alternative embodiment of system where video server is a VOD system a permissive test at a step could determine if the author of an element of social media content created during the presentation of a video stream has previously viewed the video stream using the VOD system and if the author has not previously viewed the video stream judge the author to be a na ve viewer. In this alternative embodiment a restrictive test at a step could determine that any author of an element of social media content created during the presentation of a video stream by the VOD system is not a na ve viewer since the video stream may previously been presented by another system to which the author may have had access.

The steps of exemplary process may be performed by a single system at a single site or by multiple systems at multiple sites and may be performed in the sequence shown in other sequences not shown serially in parallel or in other combinations without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

While preferred embodiments of the invention have been illustrated and described as noted above many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of a preferred embodiment. Instead the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

