---

title: Method for providing data to a user
abstract: An example method for providing a user with service technical data is provided. A server stores original service technical data and annotated data in a server where the annotated data is associated with the original service technical data. The server determines an access level of the user such where the access level of the user determines what service technical data may be sent. A portion of the service technical data is sent from the server to a device associated with the user, based at least in part on the access level of the user. The server also receives additional annotated data generated by the user where the additional annotated data is associated with the original service technical data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09141958&OS=09141958&RS=09141958
owner: Trimble Navigation Limited
number: 09141958
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120926
---
Mobile devices such as smart phones or tablets are becoming increasingly popular amongst technicians that service equipment in the field. Mobile devices comprise numerous computing functionalities such as email readers web browsers and video recorders. Mobile devices are often used for downloading books and videos as well. Today many mobile devices comprise video cameras and microphones to provide users with the ability to communicate face to face.

Reference will now be made in detail to various embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the subject matter will be described in conjunction with these embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the subject matter to these embodiments. Furthermore in the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter. In other instances well known methods procedures objects and circuits have not been described in detail as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the subject matter.

Some portions of the description of embodiments which follow are presented in terms of procedures logic blocks processing and other symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. In the present application a procedure logic block process or the like is conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps or instructions leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually although not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signal capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated in a computer system.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the present discussions terms such as storing determining sending connecting providing requesting receiving or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Furthermore in some embodiments methods described herein can be carried out by a computer usable storage medium having instructions embodied therein that when executed cause a computer system to perform the methods described herein.

Example techniques devices systems and methods for providing data to a user are described herein. Discussion begins with an example system architecture wherein a user requests data from a server. A discussion of an example server architecture is then described. Discussion continues with an example system for annotating data. Next examples of additional system functions are described. Discussion continues with example methods of use. Lastly an example electronic environment is described.

In one embodiment user is a technician that installs or repairs apparatus . Moreover it should be understood that a user may be a mechanic an electrician a plumber a chef a carpenter a doctor a construction worker etc. Further user may be a person who does not use the devices systems and methods described herein to assist with their profession.

Often times there is a high turnover or churn rate within fields that require technically trained users . Due to this high turnover rate some technically trained users may not be trained to install or repair every type of problem system. In some professions such as a surgeon the amount of knowledge user must possess is so vast that it would be difficult to memorize everything user must know to successfully perform a task. Whether in the field or at a place of business user may not always have the information required to perform a particular task such as repairing or installing apparatus . However in one example mobile device allows user to request information about apparatus from server such that user can install or repair apparatus .

Apparatus in one example includes modem router telephone cable box and television . In some embodiments apparatus may include a satellite dish not shown or an electrical system not shown etc. Moreover it should be understood that apparatus may be any type of apparatus that user can install repair upgrade build prepare cook manufacture or the like. For instance apparatus may include but is not limited to a cable and communication system as shown in a household appliance e.g. a refrigerator washing machine toaster etc. a furnace an air conditioner an HVAC system an automobile an airplane a ship any type of vehicle an electrical system within a building or external from a building heavy machinery pluming within a building or external from a building food electronics etc.

In some embodiments user enters a request for service technical data of with mobile device . Mobile device may include but is not limited to a cell phone a lap top computer a tablet computing device a smart phone a personal digital assistant an enterprise mobile device etc. In an embodiment mobile device communicates with server through network . In some embodiments network may comprise the Internet a local area network a wide area network a wireless local area network etc. In one embodiment when server receives a request server identifies the type of mobile device it is communicating with. As such in one embodiment server may optimize render data such that latency is reduced when data is sent to mobile device . In an embodiment an application programming interface API is provided for rendering data. In one embodiment server may be updated such that it recognizes new devices and can download their codecs from an external source such as external systems of . In some embodiments mobile device is wired.

In one embodiment service technical data refers to data that assists user with a task they are attempting to perform. In one embodiment service technical data can take two forms original service technical data and annotated data . Original service technical data includes but is not limited to any type of manual instructions guide handbook image video audio or other information that is created by an entity other than a user such as a product manufacturer or service company. For example original service technical data may comprise a manual on how to install a particular type of apparatus . In some embodiments original service technical data may comprise a guide on how to troubleshoot and or repair the electronics in an appliance such as a refrigerator spa or internet router . In one example original service technical data may be an instructional video created by a manufacturer of a particular tool. Annotated data as will be discussed later includes data notes created by a user to explain or add to information provided by original service technical data . Regardless of its type service technical data may be stored in a database within server .

In one embodiment user may access information associated with parts associated with original service technical data . In an embodiment a user clicks on a parts button . In an embodiment information about how to order a part appears after clicking on button . In one embodiment a map of where to buy parts also referred to as a map of stores appears after clicking on button . In another embodiment a list of nearby users appears after clicking on button . Note that these are examples and a user can access information associated with parts from other screens as well such as a main menu for example.

As will be discussed below in one embodiment a user may add an annotated data by clicking on an add annotation button . In other embodiments a user may add an annotation from another screen such as the main menu for example.

In some embodiments after a request is sent for information from a mobile device associated with user to server authentication is performed to determine whether user is permitted to view the requested information. For example server may contain a lookup table which stores a list of data that user may receive e.g. user permissions . In some embodiments a second database referred to as a meta database is separate from the database comprising service technical data and stores information about each user . In some embodiments only one database is used to store user permissions and service technical data . In some embodiments a meta database that comprises user information may partition users into subgroups such that if a particular user is part of a particular subgroup user may only receive the service technical data that other members of the subgroup are able to receive.

In some embodiments there may be various access levels within a subgroup which further limit or control information that a user may access via server . Such an access level can be based upon skill level a security clearance a settable tag and or a trade certificate associated with a user however these are merely examples and it should be appreciated that an access level may be based upon other criteria. In one embodiment access may be based on association with a particular group or level in a particular hierarchy. In some embodiments a user may have an access level related to their security clearance level. In some embodiments this is referred to as role based access or permissions user permissions. In an embodiment server determines the access level of user . In one embodiment mobile device determines the access level of user . For example if a contractor only has a secret clearance that contractor may not be able to access top secret material. In one embodiment the access level is based at least in part upon the skill level of a user . For example if user is only an apprentice and not a master in their particular trade user will not be able to access material that is only available to masters. Further the system may comprise a backend or another database on which user or a supervisor may input metadata. In some embodiments the metadata is collected and entered automatically.

It should be understood that server is not necessarily a single server. Server may comprise a single server a cluster of servers a cloud computing system a distributed computing system or the like. In some embodiments server is not in a single physical location. In some embodiments a portion of data may be stored on a server in a first location while additional data is stored in a second remote location. In some embodiments server may employ parallel processing to reduce latency.

In some embodiments server may send service technical data to the point of service through any type of network or mobile device . In an embodiment server may detect the type of mobile device connected to it. Data may be streamed or downloaded via cellular satellite or Wi Fi networks. In some embodiments cryptography and or security measures may be employed to protect data sent over network . For example public key cryptography such as Diffie Hellman or RSA may be used. Other security techniques that may be employed include sending information in the secure socket layer or the transport security layer.

Stream optimizer in one embodiment renders audio and video as discussed above. In an embodiment server can recognize device and determine an optimized rendering.

Knowledge gatherer in one embodiment gathers knowledge from knowledge communities to best provide a user with service technical data a map of users a map of stores etc. Knowledge communities include communities . In an embodiment these communities may be databases. In an embodiment community comprises service technical data . In some embodiments community may comprise annotated data original service technical data metadata etc. Community may comprise a technical manual written notes related to a particular procedure a map of users a map of stores contact information for nearby users etc.

Community orchestration server community orchestrator in one embodiment organizes and provides relationships between communities . For example in the case that uploaded annotated data must be tagged but is not tagged correctly community orchestrator may determine communities that annotated data should be associated with. In some embodiments community orchestrator organizes communities including information including but not limited to the annotated data user contact information user location information information about local stores and what parts the stores have in inventory etc. In one embodiment community orchestrator can access a database comprising user information. In an embodiment a community orchestrator can provide user with the contact information of a second user . In an embodiment a community orchestrator connects users and via their associated mobile devices and as discussed herein.

In an embodiment knowledge database comprises a database that includes information similar to knowledge communities . In some embodiments users may not alter data in knowledge database . In one embodiment only data located in knowledge communities may be altered by users . In some embodiments service technical data is stored in knowledge database . In some embodiments knowledge database comprises pointers that point to service technical data . In an embodiment service technical data comprises original service technical data and annotated data .

External systems in one example comprises any system that may be communicatively coupled to server . For example external systems may be a server or cloud that comprises information associated with local stores and their inventory remote users manufacturer information product information YouTube videos etc.

In an embodiment mobile device allows user to communicate with mobile device and user . In an embodiment more than two mobile devices may be communicatively connected simultaneously.

In an embodiment meta database stores information related to the actions of users or the actions performed by the mobile device of a user is stored in a meta database . In some embodiments this meta database may comprise qualification access levels contact information task lists etc.

In an embodiment authentication module authenticates users to ensure that they may access service technical data . In one embodiment authentication module accesses information about a user from meta database and determines whether user has permission to receive requested data.

In an embodiment service technical data sending module sends service technical data to a user . As discussed herein service technical data comprises original service technical data and annotated data . In one embodiment service technical data is multimodal i.e. both original service technical data and or annotated data may be multimodal . As discussed herein service technical data includes but is not limited to text audio images two dimensional video stereoscopic video three dimensional video etc.

In an embodiment receiving module receives service technical data . In one embodiment receiving module receives annotated data generated by a user wherein the annotated data is associated with original service technical data . For example after a user creates annotated data and sends it to server receiving module receives the annotated data .

As discussed above mobile device may receive service technical data . In addition to receiving original service technical data and annotated data user may create annotated data and send the annotated data to be stored with other service technical data .

In some embodiments mobile device is used by user to create annotated data . Annotated data may be textual data audio data visual data or a combination of the three. In one example a user may wish to annotate an installation manual that does not indicate the difficulty associated with performing a particular task. User may send data to server to annotate the manual with text and video such that when a second user attempts the task and uses the same manual that second user may view read the annotated text and watch the video to gain information explanation or advice that the first user sent to the server .

In some embodiments annotated data is associated with original service technical data while in other embodiments it is not associated with original service technical data . For example annotated data created by user may be associated with a particular technical manual that is stored with other original service technical data . In another example annotated data created by user may be associated with a plurality of items stored as original service technical data . For example the annotated data may be associated with every router made by Netgear rather than a particular Netgear router. As another example annotated data may be associated with a particular set of tools such as every tool made by Hilti . In one embodiment the annotated data may be associated with a particular procedure including but not limited to installing plumbing installing cable operating on a shoulder repairing a motor vehicle installing a countertop fixing a fuse box etc.

In one embodiment the service technical data and original service technical data is constantly updated and refined by incorporating annotated data . In one embodiment this is referred to as social networking or crowd sourcing. In one embodiment each user can update original service technical data or annotated data . In one embodiment a user may access annotated data but cannot edit or add annotated data . In one example a user cannot send annotated data unless they possess the requisite permissions access.

Because annotated data regarding a particular item in the knowledge community may grow over time in one embodiment a user is provided with the ability to sort through annotated data and organize it. For example a user may have the ability to rate a particular item of annotated data . Next a second user may sort the annotated data related to a particular item in the knowledge community by the aggregate rating of that item community . As other examples a user may sort the annotated data by tools dates companies manufacturers areas of technology etc.

In one embodiment users must pay to access service technical data . For example a user e.g. a cable company an electrician a supervisor etc. must pay per access or flat fee. In an embodiment the flat fee is a monthly or yearly subscription.

In one embodiment users may be audited. For example a supervisor may access stored data indicating whether a particular user viewed original service technical data prior to starting a task. In some embodiments only a portion of users e.g. employees may be audited by a supervisor. In other embodiments an audit may be performed by a third party. In one embodiment information related to the actions of users or the actions performed by the mobile device of a user is stored in a meta database . In some embodiments this meta database may comprise qualification access levels contact information task lists etc.

In some embodiments a user may connect to a second user that uses another mobile device . In one embodiment annotated data may include contact information for second user . For example annotated data may indicate which user added annotated data . In an embodiment each user that added annotated data is listed with a tag . A tag may be associated with a user service technical data an apparatus a type of tool a manufacturer a company a particular manual etc. In one embodiment a user can interact with e.g. clicking hovering over etc. a tag and information regarding that tag will appear on the screen. This information may include but is not limited to a website original service technical data a map of users a map of stores user contact information etc. In one embodiment user may command server to automatically connect user to second user . In one embodiment server may determine the types of devices and users and use. In one example after determining the types of devices and used by users and server may automatically connect the two users and via voice text and or voice and video for face to face chat.

In a map of users is shown. In an embodiment this map of users is provided on the screen of mobile device . In some embodiments the screen may be a touch screen. In one embodiment the map of users may comprise user symbols indicating where other users are located. In one embodiment the location of users that annotated particular original service technical data are shown on the map of users . In other embodiments the location and status of any user is shown. In an embodiment a user may interact with a user symbol C e.g. click on hover over etc. . In an embodiment when a user interacts with a user symbol C information regarding the user that is represented by user symbol C is displayed in a box as user information for example. In some embodiments user information may be shown elsewhere. It should be noted that less or additional user information including but not limited to user expertise time left at current assignment contact information etc. may be included as a part of user information . Further in some embodiments user symbols may be color coded to provide a status of a user . For example a red user symbol may indicate that a user is busy a green user symbol may indicate that a user is available a gray or black user symbol may indicate that a user is offline.

As shown in in some examples a collaborative user interface such as a virtual white board collaborative area is provided for users and . There users and can share sketches and drawings. In some embodiments a screen on a mobile device may be split such that users and may participate in a video conference while using a collaborative area . In the example shown in one of the users is drawing a picture of removing an access panel with a pry bar.

In one embodiment a system comprises an expert mode. In other words in one embodiment mobile device may suggest similar work jobs as the work being performed by user . In an example similar work jobs may be based on information including but not limited to tools used dates companies manufacturers areas of technology etc. In an embodiment similar work that was previously performed is presented to a user along with information about the technician that performed the similar work. Information about the technician that performed the similar work may include but is not limited to the date s the work was performed the tools used annotations made contact information current location e.g. displayed on a map etc. Once a user has gathered desired information from an expert mode user may utilize any of the other functionalities of the systems methods and devices described herein.

The following discussion sets forth in detail the operation of some example methods of operation of embodiments. and illustrate example procedures used by various embodiments. Flow diagrams and include some procedures that in various embodiments are carried out by one or more of the electronic devices illustrated in or a processor under the control of computer readable and computer executable instructions. In this fashion procedures described herein and in conjunction with flow diagrams and are or may be implemented using a computer in various embodiments. The computer readable and computer executable instructions can reside in any tangible computer readable storage media such as for example in data storage features such as RAM ROM and or storage device all of . The computer readable and computer executable instructions which reside on tangible computer readable storage media are used to control or operate in conjunction with for example one or some combination of processor A or other similar processor s B and C. Although specific procedures are disclosed in flow diagrams and such procedures are examples. That is embodiments are well suited to performing various other procedures or variations of the procedures recited in flow diagrams and . Likewise in some embodiments the procedures in flow diagrams and may be performed in an order different than presented and or not all of the procedures described in one or more of these flow diagrams may be performed and or one or more additional operations may be added. It is further appreciated that procedures described in flow diagrams and may be implemented in hardware or a combination of hardware with either or both of firmware and software.

In operation in one embodiment original service technical data and annotated data are stored in a server . In an embodiment original service technical data is unmodified by users while annotated data is added and or edited by users .

In operation in one embodiment an access level of a user is determined. In some embodiments an access level is determined by server . In some embodiments an access level is determined by mobile device . In some embodiments an access level may be determined by a user entering a unique password into a mobile device or by a user entering some type of biometric information into mobile device .

In operation in one embodiment at least a portion of the service technical data is sent from server to a device associated with user . In an embodiment service technical data is sent by service technical data sending module . In an embodiment service technical data is sent after a user requests service technical data . In some embodiments after a user is assigned a task by a supervisor service technical data is downloaded automatically to the mobile device .

In operation in one embodiment additional annotated data generated by user is received by server . In an embodiment annotated data is received by receiving module . Additional annotated data may be audio or visual. In some embodiments annotated data may be text voice and or video. In an embodiment user may upload the annotated data and tag it such that the annotated data is associated with a community a type of manufacturer a particular task a particular tool a particular apparatus etc.

In operation in one embodiment server communicatively connects to a second user . In some embodiments this is performed automatically by server when user requests to connect with a second user . In some embodiments server provides user with contact information for a second user . In some embodiments server determines the capabilities of each of the mobile devices belonging to the users and connects them such that they may communicate via text audio or audio and visual based upon the capabilities of the devices .

In operation in one embodiment server provides user with a map of users . In some embodiments this map comprises the location of any user that has generated any annotated data received by the user requesting the map. By indicating which user added the annotated data user can quickly and efficiently determine who to contact to retrieve information.

In operation in one embodiment server provides user with a map of stores . In some embodiments this map comprises a location of a store where a part required by service technical data can be acquired. In some embodiments the map provides the location of multiple stores where a part may be acquired. The map may include directions travel time and turn by turn instructions on how to arrive at a store. In some embodiments the map may include the locations and or names identifications of other users that have the part or in some embodiments vehicle user is searching for.

In operation in one embodiment service technical data is requested from a server by a device associated with a user . In some embodiments this request is performed by user while in other embodiments this request is performed automatically. For example the request may be made when an user receives an assignment.

In operation in one embodiment information associated with user is provided by the device associated with the user to the server for authentication via authentication module . This information may include but is not limited to user identification user permissions user personal information user security level passwords user technical level a hierarchy device identification etc.

In operation in one embodiment at least a portion of the service technical data is received by the device associated with user based on an authentication provided by authentication module . In one embodiment service technical data is sent by server with service technical data sending module . In one embodiment service technical data is not sent to mobile device if user has not been authenticated. In some embodiments device will stop functioning if the proper authorization is not provided to either server or device .

In operation annotated data generated by user is sent to the server . In an embodiment server receives data with receiving module . As discussed above annotated data may be associated with various items in the knowledge community including communities . Communities may comprise a type of tool a type of task a particular apparatus etc.

In operation in one embodiment a second user is communicatively connected to a first user . In one embodiment second user previously uploaded annotated data and user connects to second user . Second user may provide advice or explanation to user about the annotation second user made. In one embodiment second user may not have made an annotation but is located closely to user as shown by a map. In one embodiment a screen indicates that second user has certain technical skills. In one example user can connect via text voice or video to communicate with second user .

In operation in one embodiment a user is provided with a map of users that comprises the location of other users . In one embodiment the map indicates whether the user that provided annotated data is available busy online offline etc.

In operation in one embodiment a user is provided with a map of stores that comprises a location of a store where a part required by service technical data data can be acquired. In some embodiments the map provides the location of a plurality of stores where a part may be acquired. The map may include directions travel time and turn by turn instructions on how to arrive at a store. In some embodiments the map may include the locations and or names identifications of other users that have the part user is searching for.

In operation in one embodiment original service technical data and annotated data is requested from a server by a device associated with a user . In some embodiments this request is performed by user while in other embodiments this request is performed automatically. For example the request may be made when a user receives an assignment. In one embodiment service technical data is downloaded to a device upon a command from a backend of an application.

In operation in one embodiment information associated with the user is provided to the server for authentication provided by authentication module . This information may include but is not limited to user identification user permissions user personal information user security level passwords user technical level a hierarchy device identification etc.

In operation in one embodiment at least a portion of the original service technical data and the annotated data is received at the device associated with user based at least in part on an authentication of user . In an embodiment original service technical data and annotated data may be received by receiving module . For example in one embodiment service technical data will not be received by mobile device if user has not been authenticated. In some embodiments device will stop functioning if the proper authorization is not provided to server or mobile device .

In operation in one embodiment a second user is communicatively connected to a first user . As discussed above in an embodiment a second user is connected to a user to discuss problems and provide advice. In some embodiments a second user may be a supervisor a manufacturer a service provider a third party etc.

In operation in one embodiment a user is provided with a map of users that comprises the location of any user . As discussed above in some embodiments users and may be connected communicatively via their mobile devices or they may connect via another device.

In operation in one embodiment a user is provided with a map of stores that comprises a location of a store where a part required by service technical data can be acquired. In some embodiments the map provides the location of a plurality of stores where a part may be acquired. The map may include directions travel time and turn by turn instructions on how to arrive at a store. In some embodiments the map may include the locations and or names identifications of other users that have the part user is searching for.

With reference now to all or portions of some embodiments described herein are composed of computer readable and computer executable instructions that reside for example in computer usable computer readable storage media of server electronic environment . That is illustrates one example of a type of server electronic environment that can be used in accordance with or to implement various embodiments which are discussed herein. In some embodiments portions or all of the electronic environment may be implemented in server and or device . For the purposes of this disclosure electronic environment and server will be used interchangeably. However it is appreciated that server as shown in is only an example and that embodiments as described herein can operate in conjunction with a number of different computer systems including but not limited to mobile devices general purpose networked computer systems embedded computer systems routers switches server devices client devices various intermediate devices nodes stand alone computer systems media centers handheld computer systems multi media devices and the like. Server is well adapted to having peripheral tangible computer readable storage media such as for example a floppy disk a compact disk digital versatile disk other disk based storage universal serial bus thumb drive removable memory card and the like coupled thereto. The tangible computer readable storage media is non transitory in nature.

Server in one embodiment includes an address data bus for communicating information and a processor A coupled with bus for processing information and instructions. As depicted in server is also well suited to a multi processor environment in which a plurality of processors A B and C are present. As discussed herein in an embodiment server may comprise a plurality of machines comprising a plurality of processors. Conversely server is also well suited to having a single processor such as for example processor A. Processors A B and C may be any of various types of microprocessors. Server also includes data storage features such as a computer usable volatile memory e.g. random access memory RAM coupled with bus for storing information and instructions for processors A B and C. Server also includes computer usable non volatile memory e.g. read only memory ROM coupled with bus for storing static information and instructions for processors A B and C. Also present in server is a data storage unit e.g. a magnetic or optical disk and disk drive coupled with bus for storing information and instructions. Server may also include an alphanumeric input device including alphanumeric and function keys coupled with bus for communicating information and command selections to processor A or processors A B and C. Server may also include a cursor control device coupled with bus for communicating user input information and command selections to processor A or processors A B and C. In one embodiment server may also include a display device coupled with bus for displaying information.

Referring still to in one embodiment display device of may be a liquid crystal device light emitting diode device cathode ray tube plasma display device or other display device suitable for creating graphic images and alphanumeric characters recognizable to user . In one embodiment cursor control device allows user to dynamically signal the movement of a visible symbol cursor on a display screen of display device and indicate user selections of selectable items displayed on display device . Many implementations of cursor control service are known in the art including a trackball mouse touch pad joystick or special keys on alphanumeric input device capable of signaling movement of a given direction or manner of displacement. Alternatively it will be appreciated that a cursor can be directed and or activated via input from alphanumeric input device using special keys and key sequence commands. Server is also well suited to having a cursor directed by other means such as for example voice commands. Server also includes an input output I O device for coupling system with external devices and systems such as external systems . For example in one embodiment I O device is a wireless card or chip for enabling wireless communications between server and mobile device . Server and mobile device may include other input output devices not shown in . For example in one embodiment device includes a microphone. In one embodiment device includes a depth image capture device used for capturing depth data and or image data.

Referring still to various other components are depicted. communicatively Specifically when present an operating system applications modules service technical data original service technical data and annotated data are shown as typically residing in one or some combination of computer usable volatile memory e.g. RAM computer usable non volatile memory e.g. ROM and data storage unit . In some embodiments all or portions of various embodiments described herein are stored for example as an application and or module in memory locations within RAM computer readable storage media within data storage unit peripheral computer readable storage media and or other tangible computer readable storage media.

Embodiments of the present technology are thus described. While the present technology has been described in particular embodiments it should be appreciated that the present technology should not be construed as limited by such embodiments but rather construed according to the following claims.

