---

title: Aircraft data services
abstract: A method and system provide efficient, flexible, and convenient data communication services over public wireless systems. The system includes a data communication server, having a plurality of interface units, for facilitating data communication between a moving object and one or more ground terminals via a radio communication path. The data communication server establishes the radio communication path over one of a plurality of wireless data networks including packet data networks and satellite data networks and preferably includes a pre-determined software architecture.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08578037&OS=08578037&RS=08578037
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 08578037
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120726
---
The instant application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 143 738 filed Jun. 3 2005. now U.S. Pat. No. 8 250 221. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 143 738 is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 884 724 filed Jun. 19 2001. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 884 724 issued on Feb. 13 2007 with U.S. Pat. No. 7 177 939. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 884 724 is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 312 011 filed May 14 1999. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 312 011 issued on Jul. 6 2004 with U.S. Pat. No. 6 760 778. Each of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 143 738 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 884 724 U.S. Pat. No. 7 177 939 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 312 011 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 760 778 is incorporated by reference in its respective entirety herein.

The present invention generally relates to wireless data communication services. It particularly relates to aircraft data communication services for users.

Existing data communication services particularly for aircraft systems are generally limited to particular applications. These particular applications provided by non public communication systems include ground flight recorder development air traffic control operations maintenance operations position monitoring e.g. global position satellite systems GPS systems collision avoidance aircraft surveillance weather radar in flight entertainment and other specific applications.

Existing data communication services for aircraft passengers are similarly limited to particular communication protocols and software hardware systems therein limiting convenience affordability and efficiency. These user communication protocols and systems include the Terrestrial Flight Telephone System TFTS and other private communication protocols and systems. These private systems require specialized high cost antenna equipment and power control systems or an inconvenient invasive passenger ID assignment system to make use of public communication systems such as the cellular communication system or the public switched telephone network PSTN or require high interference systems such as the existing amplitude modulation AM aircraft communication systems. Based on these existing limitations of non public communication systems a need exists to enable flexible seamless data communication for aircraft systems using public wireless networks to increase affordability and efficiency.

The previously mentioned disadvantages are overcome by providing an efficient flexible and convenient method and system for providing data communication services for users. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention a data communication server including a plurality of interface units facilitates data communication between a moving object and one or more ground terminals via a radio communication path. The data communication server establishes the radio communication path over one of a plurality of wireless data networks including terrestrial and satellite data networks and may include an object oriented software architecture. Additional features of the present invention include personal data communication services for users and operational data services for the moving object.

Additional features of the present invention include a system for providing communication services including a data communication server co located with a moving object for establishing a radio communication path between a moving object and a ground station the data communication server including software architecture including software functional layers the layers including a system resources layer a system services layer an application programming interface layer and an application layer.

Further features of the present invention include a method of providing wireless data communication services including establishing a radio communication path between a moving object and a ground station using a communication server co located with the moving object the data communication server including software architecture including software functional layers the layers including a system resources layer a system services layer an application programming interface layer and an application layer.

The CDS provides access to the data services provided by the system via the server . The CDS may include a plurality of components including a Human Interface Module HIM a Passenger Access Server PAS or Terminal Server TS not shown and other components known to those of skill in the art for forming a Cabin Communications System CCS . The HIMs may be laptop computers with applications for logging data and interfacing with the server for data transfers. The PAS TS which may advantageously be a part of the server or an external device can provide dial up connectivity to the passenger seats for data service access.

The bearer systems can provide the server with the data connectivity to a plurality of ground based servers. The bearer systems may include a plurality of components including an Airborne Communications Unit ACU a Wireless Gate link system WGS a Satellite Data Unit SDU and a Terrestrial Flight Telephone system TFTS . The WGS may be for example a wireless LAN transceiver as shown in based on the IEEE 802.11 specifications which can allow transfer of high speed data to the server in the airport when the aircraft moving object is on the ground. The ACU may act as the gateway to a ground based data center via the North American Terrestrial System NATS network. Although the present invention is described with reference to the NATS network the NATS network is solely exemplary and alternative communication networks may be used for providing air to ground data communication services.

The SDU may provide access a Satellite Communications SATCOM Satellite Bearer Service. The TFTS is used to access the European land line telephone network.

System may include a plurality of components to provide higher data bandwidth and passenger access technology for facilitating data applications examples being Internet Web browsing and email retrieval. These components include Direct Broadcast Service DBS satellite decoder passenger cabin dial up access system and the WGS . Other components of system can help facilitate data communications over the existing NATS data network.

The server may include a CPU not shown comprising for example an Intel Pentium Pro or equivalent processor system. The CPU provides multiple functions including for example interfacing various applications for data storage and retrieval and managing various data communications interfaces for data transfer to the ground based servers.

The server may include a plurality of interface units for interconnecting to various data networks. These interface units may comprise a plurality of discrete I O boards or a single integrated board. Alternatively the server may include commercial off the shelf COTS network cards to provide data communications services for the system .

The plurality of interface I O units may include an Ethernet interface unit modem communications COM port Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN Basic Rate Interface BRI port Primary Rate Interface PRI port ARINC 429 Aeronautical Radio Inc. bus interface unit and ARINC 573 bus interface unit . The Ethernet unit may include ports for interconnection to the HIMs and to the external terminal station TS and may be used to connect to the wireless local area network LAN transceiver providing a high speed data path to ground terminals while the aircraft moving object is on the ground. Alternatively a COTS Ethernet card attaching to an external hub not shown may be used.

The plurality of interface I O units may include an Ethernet interface unit modem communications COM port Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN Basic Rate Interface BRI port Primary Rate Interface PRI port ARINC 429 Aeronautical Radio Inc. bus interface unit and ARINC 573 bus interface unit . The Ethernet unit may include ports for interconnection to the HIMs and to the external terminal station TS and may be used to connect to the wireless local area network LAN transceiver providing a high speed data path to ground terminals while the aircraft moving object is on the ground. Alternatively a COTS Ethernet card attaching to an external hub not shown may be used.

The PRI port and BRI port allow users passengers to establish dial up internet protocol IP connections via the CDS when the system offers Web browsing email retrieval and other passenger related data services. The BRI port may also be used as one of the system link options when operated in the packet data mode. This mode is entered when a call is established between the server and the ACU and the bearer channel B channel is operated in 64 Kbps unrestricted mode. Once the call setup is completed data is transferred without alteration allowing data link protocols an example being Point to Point Protocol PPP RFC 1548 to be used to encapsulate the IP packets sent to and from the ACU. This mode may also be referred to as the transparent bearer service.

The ARINC 429 bus interface can be used by the server to receive data from a plurality of on board management systems and to allow access to an additional bearer service via the existing Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System ACARS messaging capabilities or Satellite Data Unit SDU if so chosen. The server can also receive data transmitted from the ground via ACARS using the interface . Advantageously the interface has at least one transmit port to interface with an ACARS mobile unit MU and at least two receive ports one to receive management data from the Aircraft Condition Monitoring Systems ACMS and one to receive data from the ACARS. Additional receiving ports can be added as need to provide further management applications to monitor data from on board sensors via the ARINC 429 bus interface .

Additionally the system may include a digital satellite system DSS interface unit not shown to provide broadband packet data service at faster rates than an T1 E1 rate. The broadband data service can use a Direct Broadcast Satellite DBS to transmit and receive packet data including a DSS channel coding scheme quadrature phase shift keying QPSK modulation and R S forward error correction MPEG 2 technology for compressing and transporting data link layer the digital video data and low profile antenna and DSS decoder PC board box to receive and decode the DSS signal. Other broadband methodologies may include but are not limited to MPEG 4 e.g H.263 H.261 and other compression techniques including compression techniques that are standards compliant or proprietary.

The ACU enables air to ground communication using the existing NATS network. Advantageously two types of ACU can be used based on the type of interface to the CDS examples being a type 496 and a type 4300 8600. Type 496 has 12 ISDN BRI ports that support direct interface to BRI handsets and type 4300 8600 interfaces to the CDS by connecting to the Cabin Telecommunications Unit CTU via ISDN PRI port . The data link to the ACU may be via one of the B channels on the same PRI that carries voice traffic to the ACU requiring the server to request a B channel call to the ACU via the CTU .

Both types of ACU can include a baseband unit BBU radio frequency unit RFU and a power supply unit PSU . The BBU advantageously controls the data link connection from the aircraft to the nearest ground station. Both types of ACU will accept two different data link connection types from the server. In the non packet data mode an asynchronous Async voice grade modem dial up via a B channel ISDN link using a data access unit DAU can be used. In the packet data mode a transparent B channel data link can be used.

In the non packet data mode the link operates with the BBU having an internal modem to provide V.32 V.22 capability interfacing with the modem on the server . In the packet data mode the server can first encapsulate the IP packet in a PPP data frame and send it to the BBU using the clear B channel data service. Once the BBU receives the PPP frame the BBU will strip off the PPP header from the PPP packet and repackage the remaining IP packets into the radio RF framing structure. The server then modulates the data with phase shift keying PSK and up converts the signal to radio frequency for the RFU to transmit to the ground. The RFU provides needed signal amplification for transmitted and received signals and the PSU provides direct current DC power derived from the aircraft moving object power source.

The Human Interface Modules HIMs can be laptop PCs for example used by crew and operational personnel as the gateway to the system applications via a standard graphical user interface GUI . HIMs can be housed for example in an adapter shell that allows connection to a common docking station the adapter shell providing the interface between the HIM and the docking station and equipped with an Ethernet interface to connect to the server .

The communication system including server has access to ground based data servers via several data bearer services as illustrated in . These data bearer services can include wireless LAN services NATS packet or voice band data services satellite data services terrestrial flight telephone services TFTS and direct satellite system services DSS .

The other two options operate in the packet data mode. A regular traffic channel of the NATS network will be used to carry the packetized data and a circuit switch call is performed to maintain the channel for the duration of the packet transfer. The first packet mode option uses the ISDN BRI interface unit of the server by connecting the server to the type 496 BBU part of ACU via the BRI line. To establish a radio communication path the server can send a call setup request message to the 496 BBU and the 496 BBU can request the ground station for a traffic channel before the 496 BBU establishes the call with the server . After a channel is allocated the 496 BBU returns a call establish message back to the server and an end to end ISDN data call is established between the server and the 496 BBU. Subsequently IP packets are transferred using the B channel by encapsulating them inside the PPP frame.

The second packet data option uses ACU of type 4300 8600. In this option the server is connected to the 4300 8600 BBU via the CTU using the ISDN E1 PRI link. The call setup then follows a similar scenario as to the first packet data option that used BRI except that the CTU is used to establish the call to the BBU part of ACU over one of the B channels. At the BBU IP data packets are channel encoded and encapsulated in radio frequency RF data frames. Subsequently the data packets are modulated onto a radio frequency and sent to the Ground Station GS . At the GS the data packets are sent along to the Ground Data Gateway GDG via a Frame Relay FR network. The GDG advantageously transfers the IP packets to different networks by proper protocol conversions and receives all ground to air packet data call requests sending them to the destination air terminal via an associated GS where a radio link is established by the air terminal.

Additionally an alternative system architecture can be used for a packet data mode allowing aggregation of multiple radio links to provide higher data throughput. This higher data rate can be achieved by tunneling the PPP frame from the server to GDG via a Layer Two Tunneling Protocol L2TP . L2TP tunneling allows the PPP session to be initiated by the server and terminated at the GDG not the BBU part of ACU allowing the server and GDG to establish multiple PPP sessions over multiple radio links. The GDG enables the server to negotiate a PPP Multilink Protocol MP with GDG to bundle all the PPP sessions together to form a higher bandwidth virtual pipe.

Tunneling L2TP provides a number of unique advantages for the system. These advantages include using the existing infrastructure to make the addition of server data communication services transparent to the existing Air Ground network until the IP packet arrives at the GDG. Further advantages include the following 1 lower development costs because development is only needed at the two ends server and GDG and the existing serial line internet protocol SLIP on the BBU can be used for delivering L2TP packets 2 allowing single point of processing for IP address assignment and packet filtering because only the GDG will be used to maintain databases 3 allowing end to end recovery and flow control which therefore removes the need for the BBU to perform buffering and link layer maintenance 4 allowing aggregation of multiple radio links to increase throughput using MP 5 allowing future development of new PPP extensions without requiring changes to the BBU GS because the radio network just passes the packets through the GS 6 enabling tunneling interfaces with other bearer services allowing all communications to occur between the server and the GDG independent of the bearer service selected.

For the CPE three data link options can be selected depending on the type of data mode to be used. For a voice grade data link the CPE can interface to the system via a V series modem connected to a two wire analog line from the LEC local exchange carrier . For packet data mode the CPE has two options. For a first packet data mode option the CPE can use a frame relay service if the CPE is part of an already existing frame network. Advantageously a permanent virtual circuit PVC from each GS to a NATS data gateway over the existing frame network can be established to deliver IP packets from the aircraft moving object . The CPE can act as a router connecting to the system with the server behind it or alternatively the server can terminate the frame relay service and IP is transmitted over the link. For the second packet data mode option which provides lower costs ISDN BRI service is obtained from the local exchange carrier LEC . When IP packets are destined to the CPE the GDG will set up the data link dynamically by calling to the CPE using PPP for IP encapsulation.

An alternative bearer service used by the system can be a satellite communication service. One example can be the INMARSAT DATA3 services which provides an X.25 service with maximal data throughput e.g. 10.5 Kbps and is accessible through the SDU . shows the connection options for connecting the server to the SDU. Two options may use an ISDN D channel to establish the X.25 SVC switched virtual circuit and transport the X.25 data packets. An alternative option can use the high speed ARINC 429 port to interface directly with the SDU for X.25 call setup and data transport.

Other alternative bearer services can be used including broadband satellite link services for example a DBS system. A suitable digital compression system for example a Moving Picture Expert Group MPEG 2 system can be used to multiplex any digital signals with digitized video signals including any packet data on to one or to a very small number of satellite transponders. Other compression methodologies may include but are not limited to MPEG 4 e.g H.263 H.261 and other compression techniques including compression techniques that are standards compliant or proprietary.

Use of a DSS system interface unit allows for broadband communication independent of the particular link content either a compressed video signal or a sequence of IP packets which can be deciphered by a video coding device at the GS and the DSS receiver on the aircraft. Passenger and cabin applications for this broadband satellite service include but are not limited to software downloading flight information updates Internet browsing and TV video delivery.

The system architecture using asymmetrical data transport can provide large bandwidth e.g. in excess of 5 Mbps from the network DSS upstream to the aircraft and from the aircraft to the network e.g. 4.8 9.6 Kbps NATS downstream . A large bandwidth for the upstream can be useful for web applications since most Internet browsing retrieves a much greater amount of information than is initially transmitted.

Alternatively other satellite bearer services can be used to deliver data communication services for example LEO MEO GEO low earth orbiting middle earth orbiting geosynchronous earth orbiting satellite systems. Specific commercial examples of suitable LEO MEO GEO systems include but are not limited to Iridium Globalstar ICO Odyssey Millennium Space Astrolink Cyberstar and Teledesic. Use of these systems enables data service offerings in the exemplary range of 384 Kbps 1.2 Gbps and allows various data applications including video conferencing high quality video high speed Internet and virtual LAN service.

The satellite network can perform necessary routing and handoff procedures to establish and maintain connectivity between the aircraft and ground networks . Additionally the satellite network can serve as a network cloud providing connectivity between any pair of clients e.g. aircraft and ground networks preferably using SVCs or PVCs.

The aircraft includes a satellite transceiver unit capable of transmitting and receiving data using any particular satellite network and having the capability of handling either ATM or frame relay protocol such that a SVC or PVC can be established between the aircraft transceiver box and ground networks . Using this setup IP packets can be encapsulated by these lower layer protocols to enable a transparent conduit for IP packets to travel from the aircraft to the desired ground networks .

Another alternative data link option enables passenger cabin dial up access services. shows the communication system architecture for passenger cabin dial up services. The system architecture includes cabin distribution system server having its components and can further include digital flight data acquisition unit DFDAU ACARS MU and other components.

The system allows a user passenger to access internet service either via an on board internet service or using the server as a proxy to access the rest of the Internet. At least two types of access are available depending on the configuration of the user s access device e.g. laptop . For all access scenarios the connection to the server via the TS function will be over a CTU switched ISDN B Channel. Advantageously the user s access device can be equipped with a PCMCIA V series modem allowing connection to an RJ 11 jack on the handset and the handset can be connected to the CTU via the CDS network. For this configuration a modem pool as part of the TS function can peer with the laptop modem and the link layer protocol is PPP so that proper authentication for billing purposes and dynamic IP address assignment can be achieved. Advantageously a useful COTS TS for serving this function includes but is not limited to the Ascend MAX or US Robotics Total Control that on one end can interface with the CTU via a T1 E1 PRI or with the BBU via a BRI and on the other end with the server via Ethernet see 

Alternatively the user s access device can be equipped with an ISDN modem alleviating the need for the server to have modem capability. In this configuration an internal COTS PRI PC card can be used for handling the end to end digital signal. Advantageously this particular configuration imposes no additional development on the aircraft end only requiring modification on the handset to provide a U interface for connecting to the user access device ISDN modem.

As described previously a point to point link can be established between the aircraft and remote server using the PPP link layer protocol to encapsulate IP for transfer across this virtual connection. The data link can be established in three stages using an air to ground link request ground to ground call setup and end to end call setup.

Advantageously the air to ground link can be first requested using a FAX DATA channel request signal via the DAU to the BBU . BBU can determine which ground station to use and can then send a request channel signal via RFU to the ground station GS selected. Once the selected GS finds an available channel the GS sends a request to the switching center SC receives an acknowledgment and then returns the acknowledgment with the assigned channel to BBU via BBU and RFU . After receiving the acknowledgment signal BBU sends a signal to server via DAU indicating that a channel is being made available. Upon completion of this air to ground link request channel availability the voice path can be established between the server and the SC and the SC inserts an in band dial tone and waits for the server to out pulse in band DTMF digits to complete the ground portion of the call connection.

Once the air to ground call setup is completed the ground to ground call setup can then proceed. Once the server receives the dial now signal it then out pulses the 10 digit phone number to the SC. The SC then connects to the destination number via the PSTN and bridges the two conference legs together. At this point the SC returns the call progress tone all the way back to the server . Upon answering the call the remote TS either at the GDG or the CPE sends the in band modem answer tone via modem to start the modem negotiation with the calling party via modem . Once the GS detects the modem tone it cuts the voice path and sends a signal to the BBU to request it to start modem training with the server . At the same time the GS starts the modem training with the TS . When both pairs of modems complete the training the data can flow through the air link using a particular out of band protocol while the data flowing between the two pairs of modems can use a V series protocol.

Once the setup of the physical layer between the server and TS is completed the TS can start the link layer negotiation with the server using the PPP protocol in accordance with RFC 1548 1549 including the three main components of PPP LCP Link Control Protocol NCP Network Control Protocol and multi protocol encapsulation. PPP encapsulation frames can be used to carry the IP traffic across the data link between the two PPP peers the server and the TS of the ground network. Advantageously the server may act as a proxy server or perform network address translation for any clients on the same LAN.

Alternatively if the ISDN PRI is used instead for call setup the call request can be initiated when the server sends a call setup message to the CTU as described previously. CTU based on the destination number of the call setup message will send an incoming data call indication to the BBU. Once the BBU detects the incoming call event it will proceed and negotiate a traffic channel as described previously. Once the channel is allocated the BBU will send back call answer messages to the CTU to inform the server that a data link is up and it is ready to receive any PPP packets. Once the PPP packet arrives at the BBU the BBU will strip off the PPP header from the PPP packet put the remaining PPP packets into RF frames and transmit the channel encoded RF frames over the radio link to the GS .

Once the GS receives the radio frame it will recover the IP packet and forward it to the GDG advantageously serving as a router and interface to the public Internet and to the private network that interconnects the CPE servers such that every IP packet will be routed to the appropriate network based on the destination IP address. For ground to air packet data calls the GDG will send call request messages to the associated GS for certain destination air terminals via a frame relay network. When a radio link is available a connection will be set up from GDG to server using circuit mode from GS to server .

The packet data architecture described herein can be used for an improved circuit mode data solution non CTU installation . The circuit mode data system architecture is shown in . The system architecture includes user access device e.g. laptop telephone ACU TS antenna radio tower server ground station controller GSC router frame relay router GDG modem pool PSTN and destination modem .

Upon user request from the user access device the BBU can check to verify that adequate radio and server resources are available. Assuming adequate resources are available the BBU will then proceed to reserve a modem on the TS and establish a link to the GSC . Once the link to the ground is established an end to end TCP circuit is setup between the appropriate GDG and TS components advantageously performed using telnet or a socket connection between the two components. The BBU also forwards dialing and dialed numbers to the GDG . Pending a sanity check on the dialed number and a validation check on the billing instrument the GDG will initiate a connection to the desired destination party via a modem. Simultaneously the BBU will transfer the call to the TS voice band data BRI interface with both modem connections i.e. passenger to TS and GDG to remote end device negotiating the link separately. Upon confirmation that these two links have been established the GDG and TS can shuttle information to each other. Additionally this configuration can support handoffs of voice band data calls.

As illustrated in the server of the data communication system can advantageously include an object oriented software architecture . Software architecture includes server GDG and ground based servers . An object oriented software architecture is exemplary and alternative software architectures may be used including but not limited to C JAVA HTML etc.

Use of an object oriented design includes that each system resource or service provider bears an object entity and that services are accessible via the published methods. Resources are managed within the objects. Additionally the server may advantageously use a client server model wherein the clients request the service by accessing the published methods or interfaces on the servers . The software architecture also advantageously may use location transparency wherein the objects are accessible by the clients universally within the confines of the access control and the network connectivity.

As shown in the software architecture may optionally include GUI Graphical User Interface having interfaces allowing data communication applications to request services from the server . Preferably objects on server can advertise services that applications are allowed to access the applications also accessing a Structured Query Language SQL manager as needed to interact with the GDG to retrieve or send data. The GDG may serve as a Data Proxy using local storage space to either cache the data for upload to the server or download to the customers user ground based servers GBS . GDG will then use the proper transport to interact with the GBS for data transfer. The GUI can be optional to the design as applications may run unattended without human intervention and therefore are only used for maintenance operations under those conditions. The design of the architecture is independent of the underlying operating system.

The software architecture can be logically divided into four functional layers as shown in . These layers include an applications AP layer application programming interface API layer system services SS layer and system resources SR layer . The AP layer can contain applications that are developed by the aircraft or other parties. The SR layer contains the system resources that are used by the SS layer when providing service to higher layer components. The SR components can include the server bearer resources the databases the data storage and JAVA execution environment etc.

The SS layer components provide system level services to the objects in the API layer or to other components in the same layer. The services can include but are not limited to various TCP IP services avionics standards services data compression and cryptographic services scheduling and transaction oriented services. The SS layer includes API administration SS to manage all API objects its purpose being to provide access control service activation deactivation and property change capabilities of the API object to the data communication service provider.

Advantageously the SR layer may include at least four types of components used by the data communication server. These components can include device drivers BITE system file system and miscellaneous facilities. Dependent on the underlying OS of the data communication server the components of the SR layer may be part of the embedded OS or may be specially designed for aircraft data communication services.

Device drive DD components enable the SS layer components to interact with communication devices for data exchange with the GDG or with onboard avionics devices. Advantageously the DD may be part of the underlying OS or may be specially developed and includes a plurality of components including a BRI driver PRI driver Ethernet driver ARINC 429 driver and ARINC 573 driver.

The SR file system can advantageously provide a consistent way to store or provide permanent storage persistence the data including allowing the SS components to perform read write and delete operations based on particularly developed user rights or permissions. Additionally the file system can include a special system file the route table used for determining the routing for IP packets. The route table can include a set of known routes and be locally stored in non volatile memory.

Miscellaneous facilities can include an SQL database and a JAVA Virtual Machine VM . The SQL database provides a database engine to store and manage the data needed by the server SS and API components including all necessary database transactions such as query insert update and delete functions. Advantageously the JAVA VM can allow the server to access other network based services using JAVA applications or applets. Use of the VM allows the server to write an API using JAVA architecture that allows clients from other platforms running a different OS to request services from the data communication server with a standardized protocol.

The API layer provides a consistent way for the AP to acquire and utilize data oriented aircraft services. Advantageously a generic object is produced an example being the generic business object BO that will allow access to these services assuming specific transport protocols e.g. TCP IP UDP etc. . This allows use of an object without specific knowledge of the service support structure. Alternatively each component in the API layer can be represented as an object that provides one specific aircraft service each object containing three major parts the communicator the receptor and the service logic. Services provided by each API object can be characterized by properties methods and events and are exposed through the communicator and the receptor.

The communicator is a client side component which can be represented as a control in a user object UO or the object embedded in AP which enables the AP to invoke services and to communicate or share the data construct with the object via a known set of properties methods and events. The receptor component which can be represented as a control in the business object and which resides inside the object itself is used to accept the service requests and to share and communicate back with the AP. The service logic is the implementation of the object itself and has access to the lower layer components. This architecture is illustrated in and comprises the client process and the local server process . Client process includes client application and user object and local server process includes business object and local server .

Other API objects can include Objects to retrieve updatable or time sensitive information for a user information that may lose its value if not retrieved by the user in a pre determined period of time and information that may be updated as a result of this value loss. This updatable or time sensitive information for the user may include news information sports scores weather information traffic information politics information business information finance information and other updatable or time sensitive information. Other objects may include FMS Flight Management System Object for database loading the FOQA Flight Operations Quality Assurance object for obtaining and managing ACMS data and other objects.

In practical operation the communicator can provide the clients the necessary networking and protocol handling capability to execute services on the server and the receptor handles the requests initiated by the clients and starts Instances of the services being requested. Following this process the communicator of the API allows the applications to make use of the services provided by the server. Similarly the communicator of the SS object allows other SS and API components to utilize the services provided by the SS object.

For this example a sports score retrieval SS is advantageously registered with the scheduler enabling execution periodically to retrieve sports scores from the GDG . A sports scores admin server instantiates sports scores API objects and makes them available for the sports score clients to obtain sports scores for the user. A Database SS is used by sports scores API and retriever to store persist and share the scores files advantageously stored in a user profile. It is also used by the retriever to initiate an SQL query via the IP Stack SS and BRI SR or alternatively an Ethernet SR to the GDG to retrieve the latest cached scores.

The sports scores admin server allows a system administrator to perform a plurality of functions including starting terminating the sports scores service changing the property of each active instance and the default property of the service changing the automatic update schedule using the sports scores retriever control and initiating an on demand update using the sports scores retriever control. Additionally the admin server maintains the database that contains all the sports scores records wherein advantageously the client API can be allowed access to database records with read permission only and both the admin server and the retriever have full control over the records.

The sports scores retriever advantageously can have access to both the sports scores database and the sports scores locator database. The retriever can use the information in the locator database to construct the SQL queries such as the token representing the records desired the SQL server location and the property of the records and other information to retrieve the sports scores records. The retrieved information will be written to the sports scores database and a proper event will be sent back either to the client or the admin server to inform the availability of the updated records. Additionally a GUI will be available to a system administrator to perform a plurality of functions including initiating a complete on demand update initiating a partial on demand update based on the client property forwarded allowing modifications to the automatic update schedule and changing the locator database records.

In practical operation the client requests services via methods. Advantageously a generic method may be created but with different properties to differentiate various services requests or different methods may be created to represent different requests. provides a representative example of the different server side and client side methods that can be created for the sports scores API.

Additionally clients can request an object to send notification in case a specific event has occurred. Advantageously the client is notified of an event in the form of executing the call event function on the client side. For the exemplary sports scores API there are two events that can be required one for indicating the successful completion of method execution and another for indicating when the method execution failed. Optionally an error code may be used as part of the event to indicate the cause of the failure.

Referring again to an illustrative example of how sports scores AP invokes the data communication server s sports scores service and the actions performed as characterized by properties and methods are shown.

Initially for the client requests for scores action the user can select the desired options on the property menu via the GUI and demand an unconditional update see . Then for the server retrieves data requested action the server side Sports Scores API reviews the client controlled property see and initiates an SQL query of the sports scores table via the SQL Manager SS to verify that data is up to date. For this example the SQL query suggest that the data requested is out of date. Next in the server requests for updates action the server side sports scores API demands an update see which invokes the sports scores retriever SS server control using the retriever control property see . Then for the retriever initiates SQL based scores retrieval action the sports scores retriever SS component invokes SQL Manager control to query the sports scores locator records for detailed instructions to initiate an SQL based data query e.g. SQL script ID . Then the retriever instructs the SQL Manager to retrieve the required data records. Then for the low level SQL queries and retrieval action the SQL Manager initiates queries by establishing an SQL port TCP or UDP connection to the SQL server inside the GDG .

The request can be wrapped by the IP Stack SS and can be sent to the proper BRI SR that has the connection to the desired bearer via the routing table lookup. The SQL query requests that an IP packet be delivered to the GDG where corresponding TCP UDP ports are being used for accepting the SQL connections. Advantageously the SQL server on the GDG returns the results of the query back to the database SS . The sports scores retriever receives an event notification of the completion of the query.

For the sports scores retriever notifies server of task completion action the sports scores retriever sends a completion event to the Server by executing a call back function. Then for the server reads database records action the server API embedded as part of the call back function contacts the database manager for the requested sports scores wherein the retrieved data is delivered to the client side sports scores API object . Then for the client reads scores action the client side API receives the completion event and retrieves the data delivered by the server side API wherein the results updated sports scores are presented to the user via the client GUI controls.

Several applications are enabled by the data communications system architecture including aircraft operations applications cabin applications for aircraft personnel and passenger applications. Advantageously many of the applications use a display observable to the aircraft crew or passenger to display requested or automatically generated information e.g. catalog of products or services via the data communication server and provides for delivering information e.g. credit card to facilitate a purchase. Operations applications are intended to increase the operational efficiency of the airline flight crew flight operations department and or maintenance department in the operation and maintainability of the aircraft. Operations applications can include but are not limited to electronic library systems ELS electronic logbook flight operations quality assurance FOQA engine data performance reports V1 speeds rotation angle aircraft position out off on in OOOI flight phase reports and data loader. Further operations applications may include aircraft condition monitoring system fault reports gate assignment weight data departure reports pre flight briefings clock synchronization delay reports gate requests ACARS crew scheduling and weather.

The ELS electronic logbook provides a paperless environment for the aircraft crew to manage aircraft operations. The system includes reference to on line manuals and guides and provides an electronic mechanism for items requiring logbook entry. Logbook entries can be automatically sent to the aircraft operations center for an updated copy of the logbook system this copy serving as a backup to the electronic copy kept on the aircraft system.

FOQA is an FAA sponsored program to increase aircraft flight safety via monitoring aircraft and pilot performance through the various data supplied by the aircraft sub systems. The data can be stored on board the aircraft and delivered at a later date to aircraft flight operations or can be delivered real time via the data communications server. The engine data application can include real time delivery of engine performance data to the aircraft operations center obtainable via the ACARS MU or via the ARINC 429 bus connected to an engine electronic controller EEC . Performance reports may include monitoring of pilot actions during critical phases of flight such as takeoff and landing to provide the flight operations input for corrective actions in training programs or technical literature. Additionally data analysis used to maximize flight performance may include monitoring of such data as actual vs. calculated V1 speeds angle of rotation flap deployment and angle of ascent descent.

Real time aircraft position is used by the aircraft operations center to track the aircraft and provide real time feedback for performance monitoring and route adjustments to pilots. Advantageously the data communications server may obtain position information from an on board positioning system e.g. global positioning satellite and route that information to the aircraft operations center. Other applications use the data communication server to provide the requested data.

Cabin applications can be advantageously intended to increase the operational efficiency of the aircraft cabin crew and or maintenance crew. Cabin applications can be also intended to provide new passenger services or more efficient use of existing passenger services. Cabin applications can include but are not limited to connecting gates delay reports duty free shopping allowing aircraft personnel to validate credit purchases of duty free goods via a card reader frequent flyer customer profile on board inventory systems information and troubleshooting departure reports pre flight briefings FA communication system flight attendant comments tracking system FACTS email cabin discrepancy log CDL catering reports allowing user pre selected catering services and baggage asset tracking. Baggage asset tracking can be advantageously implemented using the data communication server in combination with an RFID tag system e.g. integrated into baggage tags to track and locate aircraft baggage and assets. The RFID tags could be read with RF readers for tracking and identifying of baggage and assets including a data link e.g. Ethernet to the data communication server for processing.

Passenger applications are intended to provide a more comfortable convenient aircraft experience for the passenger user . Passenger applications can advantageously include but are not limited to transaction processing sports scores as described herein connecting gates delay reports service selections reservation system access messaging service marketing tracking surveys comments shopping email advertising on line services as described herein passenger inflight information PII GTA registration for telephony services and medical information.

Although the invention is described herein using the NATS network as a primary bearer service for an aircraft data communication service it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that modifications and changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. As such the method and apparatus described herein may be equally applied to any bearer service providing data communication services for a user from any moving object.

