---

title: Subsurface oscillating blade propellor
abstract: A subsurface propeller module, using Voith Schneider propeller technology, is provided for use in underwater vehicle dynamic motion control. One or more modules are mounted between nose and body sections of the vehicle such that their axes of rotation coincide with the longitudinal centerline of the vehicle. This enables the module to thrust in any direction normal to the direction of travel. Wiring for power and sensors can be routed through structural conduits connecting the nose section to the main body of the vehicle and supporting the propeller modules. The structural conduits can be shaped to provide support for the nose and body sections, and to have minimal hydrodynamic impact on vehicle forward motion or module thrust. A sealed housing is provided for the motors and control actuators of the propeller modules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08783202&OS=08783202&RS=08783202
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08783202
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120725
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties.

The present invention relates to underwater propulsion and maneuverability. More particularly the present invention relates to a subsurface oscillating blade propeller adapted for use on an underwater vehicle.

There is increasing reliance on underwater vehicles both manned and unmanned to perform missions such as underwater reconnaissance and mine detection hydrographic mapping and homeland defense missions such as swimmer and vehicle detection and ship hull or structure inspections. A variety of vehicles are employed for these missions. Though some have novel propulsion methods the vehicles can normally be categorized into two main types box type and torpedo type.

As their name implies box type vehicles are normally box shaped and use thrusters fixed in various positions for dynamic control. They may vary in size and are generally used for missions that do not require vehicle speed but instead require the vehicle to slowly hover in the mission area. Box type underwater vehicles perform such missions as hull or target inspections and hardware recovery.

Torpedo type underwater vehicles also vary in size. These vehicles generally use rearward facing propellers to move quickly through the water and are hydrodynamically shaped to lessen drag. These vehicles are typically used to cover large areas at speed. Torpedo type underwater vehicles perform such missions as area reconnaissance and hydrographic mapping using side scan sonar and other sensors.

There are currently efforts to merge the two types of underwater vehicles by integrating fore and aft hover modules on torpedo type underwater vehicles. Similar to the propulsion method of the box type vehicles hover modules consist of fixed thrusters. Each module normally contains a fixed vertical thruster and a fixed horizontal thruster.

The hover module system enables the vehicle to perform limited maneuvers including ascent and descent on a designated vertical plane translation left and right on a designated horizontal plane and rotation on a designated horizontal plane. A limitation of the system is that each of these behaviors uses only about 50 of the available thrust. Only one thruster in each module provides the maneuvering thrust with the other providing some small control thrust. To change direction when hovering the thrusters must come to a stop and reverse direction.

Thus a need has been recognized in the state of the art to provide systems for maneuvering a torpedo type underwater vehicle. The systems need to minimally impact the hydrodynamics of the vehicle at high speed while providing efficient maneuverability at slower speeds. Specifically the systems need to provide thrust in any direction utilizing the maximum available power. Additionally dynamic roll control or stability of the vehicle at both slow maneuvering speeds and high speeds should not be adversely impacted but should be enhanced.

It is therefore a general purpose and primary object of the present invention to provide a subsurface propeller module using Voith Schneider propeller technology. The subsurface oscillating blade propeller provides for underwater vehicle dynamic motion control. One or more propeller modules are mounted such that their axes of rotation coincide with the longitudinal axis or centerline of the vehicle. This enables the module to thrust in any direction normal to the direction of travel. Additionally this configuration has a minimal hydrodynamic impact on the vehicle during its normal forward motion.

The propeller modules can be located between the nose and main body sections of the vehicle. Wiring for power and sensors can be routed through structural conduits connecting the nose section to the main body section. The structural conduits can be shaped to provide support for the nose and body sections as well as the propeller modules and to have minimal hydrodynamic impact on vehicle forward motion or module thrust.

A sealed pressure housing is provided for the motor and actuators that control the pitch angle of the adjustable blades of the propellers. When two counter rotating modules are used the stability of the vehicle is enhanced through dynamic roll control.

In one embodiment a system for maneuvering an underwater vehicle includes one or more oscillating blade propeller modules located between first and second sections of the underwater vehicle. The axes of rotation of the propeller modules coincide with a longitudinal axis of the underwater vehicle such that the thrust of the propeller modules is in any direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. A motor module is connected to the propeller modules and struts connected between the first and second sections support the motor module.

The propeller modules can include contra rotating oscillating blade propellers which can include Voith Schneider type propellers. The motor module can include a sealed housing. The sealed housing can enclose actuators connected to adjustable pitch blades of the propeller modules.

The support struts can form one or more passageways for wiring connected between a power source of the vehicle and the motor module. A cross section of the motor module can conform to a cross section of the vehicle. Also the radial dimension of the motor module can be equal to or less than the radial dimension of the vehicle.

The motor module can be located between a nose section and a body section of said vehicle. The support strut passageways can include passageways for wiring connected between the nose section and the body section.

In one embodiment a system for maneuvering an underwater vehicle can include one or more Voith Schneider type propeller modules located between a nose section and a body section of the underwater vehicle. The propeller modules have an axis of rotation coincident with the longitudinal axis of the underwater vehicle. A motor is connected to the propeller modules and actuators are connected between the motor and adjustable pitch blades of the propeller modules. A sealed housing encloses the motor and the actuators.

Struts for supporting the housing are connected between the nose section and the housing and connected between the body section and the housing. Sealed passageways are provided within one or more of the support struts for passage of wiring connected between a vehicle power source and the motor and for wiring connected between the nose section and the body section. The propeller modules can include contra rotating propellers. Also a cross section of the housing can conform to a cross section of the vehicle.

Referring now to there is shown a schematic side view of underwater vehicle with a subsurface oscillating blade propeller system mounted thereon. Underwater vehicle is of the torpedo type. As is known in the art torpedo type vehicle has a hydrodynamic shaped nose section an elongated body section and a tapered tail section

Nose section generally houses electronic sensor systems such as those used for navigation tracking and mapping. Body section generally houses power systems for both electronics and propulsion. Tail section generally houses the propulsion unit illustrated by propulsive propeller

System includes a Voith Schneider type propeller module . As is known in the art Voith Schneider type propellers are variously referred to as cycloidal propellers or vertical axis propellers and are also referred to herein as oscillating blade propellers. In a typical application these propellers or propeller modules are comprised of several narrow vertical controllable pitch blades that extend below a vessel s hull from a rotating plate that is turned by the vessel s motor. The blades are substantially parallel to and centered around the axis of rotation of the rotating plate. Each individual blade s pitch or angle can be adjusted as required to create thrust in any direction normal to the axis of the rotating plate. As will be explained in further detail hereinafter system can also include a second contra rotating Voith Schneider type propeller module . The term contra rotating as used herein means that module rotates in the opposite direction from module in order to counteract torque induced rolling forces on the vessel applied by the respective propeller modules. As is discussed and illustrated wherein propeller modules and are positioned so that their blades and axes of rotation are parallel to the vehicle s centerline X X rather than extending vertically downward from the vessel as in the typical installation of these types of propulsors. Propeller modules and are mounted between nose section and body section of vehicle . Motor module is located between propeller modules and and provides for axial rotation of propeller modules and .

As is known in the art a Voith Schneider propeller provides thrust in any direction perpendicular to its axis of rotation. Propeller modules and are mounted on vehicle such that the axes of rotation of propeller modules and both coincide with longitudinal axis or centerline X X of vehicle . Accordingly the thrust provided by propeller modules and is perpendicular to centerline X X as illustrated by arrows T in . Although thrust T is shown in the vertical direction in it should be understood that thrust T can be provided in any direction that is perpendicular to centerline X X the direction depending on the pitch of the blades in the propeller modules and as is discussed in more detail below.

Referring also to there is shown a more detailed schematic view of system . As previously described motor module is positioned between propeller modules and . Referring also to there is shown a schematic cross sectional view of propeller module taken at line of . It is noted that the following description with reference to also applies to propeller module .

The thrust T described with respect to is provided by blades mounted on rotor shown in but not shown in for clarity and extending longitudinally substantially parallel to centerline X X. As shown in and as is known in the art blades are exposed to the ambient seawater environment so that they can generate thrust when they rotate about centerline X X interacting with the seawater . Rotor is connected to motor module such that operation of motor module rotates rotor and blades about centerline X X which is perpendicular to the plane of . As is known in the art the pitch of a propeller blade can be changed by adjusting the blade angle. As shown in one or more actuators shown in phantom in can control linkage rods connected to rotor and blades so as to change the blade angle and thus the pitch of blades as blades rotate providing thrust in the desired direction about centerline X X.

Motor module is supported between propeller modules and by forward struts and aft struts . As illustrated in forward struts are fixed to nose section and extend rearward to connect to motor module . Aft struts are fixed to body section and extend forward to connect to motor module . To prevent interference rotor and blades are sized such that the maximum distance of blades from centerline X X is less than the distance from centerline X X to struts and struts as illustrated in .

As noted previously with respect to body section generally houses electronic power systems. Thus one or more of struts and one or more of struts can be in the form of a conduit for passage of wiring between body section and nose section and also to motor module . For underwater use motor module actuators and wiring conduit struts and can be sealed from the ambient environment using techniques commonly known in the art.

What have thus been described are systems and methods for dynamic motion control of underwater vehicle . One or more subsurface propeller modules using Voith Schneider propeller technology are mounted such that their axes of rotation coincide with the centerline X X of vehicle . This enables modules and to thrust in any direction normal to centerline X X.

By sizing motor module and propeller modules and to conform to the dimensions of vehicle the configuration has minimal hydrodynamic impact on vehicle during its normal forward motion. Wiring for power and sensors can be routed through structural conduits that support motor module and connect nose section to body section of vehicle . Motor module and actuators for changing the pitch of propeller blades can be contained within sealed pressure housing illustrated in phantom in allowing for the penetration of linkage rods and wiring.

Obviously many modifications and variations of the present invention may become apparent in light of the above teachings. For example illustrate two propeller modules . Dynamic control can also be obtained using only a single propeller module. However the use of propeller modules and can provide redundancy in case of damage to one propeller module. Additionally by having propeller modules and rotate in opposite directions propeller modules and can provide a measure of roll control in the manner of the contra rotating rotors of a helicopter.

In and motor module is illustrated as having the same radial dimension as nose section and body section . However motor module may have a smaller radial dimension such that struts and can be combined into one continuous strut between nose section and body section . Though not preferred due to the adverse impact on vehicle hydrodynamics motor module may have a radial dimension greater than nose and body sections and

Additionally subsurface oscillating blade propeller system need not be located between nose and body sections and . Depending on the design of vehicle a forward body section designated in phantom in can be located between system and nose section . Further subsurface oscillating blade propeller system as described herein can be adapted for use on box type underwater vehicles to provide both improved propulsion and maneuverability.

It will be understood that many additional changes in details materials steps and arrangements of parts which have been described herein and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

