---

title: Devices, systems, and methods for assessing a vessel
abstract: Embodiments of the present disclosure are configured to assess the severity of a blockage in a vessel and, in particular, a stenosis in a blood vessel. In some particular embodiments, the devices, systems, and methods of the present disclosure are configured to assess the severity of a stenosis in the coronary arteries without the administration of a hyperemic agent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09339348&OS=09339348&RS=09339348
owner: Medsolve Limited
number: 09339348
owner_city: London
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20120430
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 525 736 filed on Aug. 20 2011 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 525 739 filed on Aug. 20 2011 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to the assessment of vessels and in particular the assessment of the severity of a blockage or other restriction to the flow of fluid through a vessel. Aspects of the present disclosure are particularly suited for evaluation of biological vessels in some instances. For example some particular embodiments of the present disclosure are specifically configured for the evaluation of a stenosis of a human blood vessel.

A currently accepted technique for assessing the severity of a stenosis in a blood vessel including ischemia causing lesions is fractional flow reserve FFR . FFR is a calculation of the ratio of a distal pressure measurement taken on the distal side of the stenosis relative to a proximal pressure measurement taken on the proximal side of the stenosis . FFR provides an index of stenosis severity that allows determination as to whether the blockage limits blood flow within the vessel to an extent that treatment is required. The normal value of FFR in a healthy vessel is 1.00 while values less than about 0.80 are generally deemed significant and require treatment. Common treatment options include angioplasty and stenting.

Coronary blood flow is unique in that it is affected not only by fluctuations in the pressure arising proximally as in the aorta but is also simultaneously affected by fluctuations arising distally in the microcirculation. Accordingly it is not possible to accurately assess the severity of a coronary stenosis by simply measuring the fall in mean or peak pressure across the stenosis because the distal coronary pressure is not purely a residual of the pressure transmitted from the aortic end of the vessel. As a result for an effective calculation of FFR within the coronary arteries it is necessary to reduce the vascular resistance within the vessel. Currently pharmacological hyperemic agents such as adenosine are administered to reduce and stabilize the resistance within the coronary arteries. These potent vasodilator agents reduce the dramatic fluctuation in resistance predominantly by reducing the microcirculation resistance associated with the systolic portion of the heart cycle to obtain a relatively stable and minimal resistance value.

However the administration of hyperemic agents is not always possible or advisable. First the clinical effort of administering hyperemic agents can be significant. In some countries particularly the United States hyperemic agents such as adenosine are expensive and time consuming to obtain when delivered intravenously IV . In that regard IV delivered adenosine is generally mixed on a case by case basis in the hospital pharmacy. It can take a significant amount of time and effort to get the adenosine prepared and delivered to the operating area. These logistic hurdles can impact a physician s decision to use FFR. Second some patients have contraindications to the use of hyperemic agents such as asthma severe COPD hypotension bradycardia low cardiac ejection fraction recent myocardial infarction and or other factors that prevent the administration of hyperemic agents. Third many patients find the administration of hyperemic agents to be uncomfortable which is only compounded by the fact that the hyperemic agent may need to be applied multiple times during the course of a procedure to obtain FFR measurements. Fourth the administration of a hyperemic agent may also require central venous access e.g. a central venous sheath that might otherwise be avoided. Finally not all patients respond as expected to hyperemic agents and in some instances it is difficult to identify these patients before administration of the hyperemic agent.

Accordingly there remains a need for improved devices systems and methods for assessing the severity of a blockage in a vessel and in particular a stenosis in a blood vessel. In that regard there remains a need for improved devices systems and methods for assessing the severity of a stenosis in the coronary arteries that do not require the administration of hyperemic agents.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are configured to assess the severity of a blockage in a vessel and in particular a stenosis in a blood vessel. In some particular embodiments the devices systems and methods of the present disclosure are configured to assess the severity of a stenosis in the coronary arteries without the administration of a hyperemic agent.

In some instances a method of evaluating a vessel of a patient is provided. The method includes introducing at least one instrument into the vessel of the patient obtaining from the at least one instrument proximal pressure measurements within the vessel at a position proximal of a stenosis of the vessel for at least one cardiac cycle of the patient obtaining from the at least one instrument distal pressure measurements within the vessel at a position distal of the stenosis of the vessel for the at least one cardiac cycle of the patient selecting a diagnostic window within a cardiac cycle of the patient wherein the diagnostic window encompassing only a portion of the cardiac cycle of the patient and calculating a pressure ratio between the distal pressure measurements obtained during the diagnostic window and the proximal pressure measurements obtained during the diagnostic window. In some embodiments the diagnostic window is selected at least partially based on one or more characteristics of the proximal pressure measurements. For example a starting point and or an ending point of the diagnostic window is selected based on the proximal pressure measurements. In that regard the starting and or ending point is based on one or more of a dicrotic notch in the proximal pressure measurements a peak pressure of the proximal pressure measurements a maximum change in pressure of the proximal pressure measurements a start of a cardiac cycle of the proximal pressure measurements and a start of diastole of the proximal pressure measurements. In some instances an ending point of the diagnostic window is selected to be a fixed amount of time from the starting point.

In some embodiments the diagnostic window is selected at least partially based on one or more characteristics of the distal pressure measurements. For example a starting point and or an ending point of the diagnostic window is selected based on the distal pressure measurements. In that regard the starting and or ending point is based on one or more of a dicrotic notch in the distal pressure measurements a peak pressure of the distal pressure measurements a maximum change in pressure of the distal pressure measurements a start of a cardiac cycle of the distal pressure measurements a ventricularization point of the distal pressure measurements and a start of diastole of the distal pressure measurements. In some instances the diagnostic window is selected by identifying a maximum diagnostic window and selecting a portion of the maximum diagnostic window as the diagnostic window. Further in some embodiments the method further comprises obtaining from the at least one instrument flow velocity measurements of a fluid flowing through the vessel. In that regard the diagnostic window is selected in some instances to correspond to a portion of the cardiac cycle where a differential first derivative and or second derivative of the flow velocity measurements has a relatively constant value of approximately zero. In some embodiments the diagnostic window is selected based on characteristics of an ECG signal of the patient. In some embodiments the heart of the patient is not stressed during the at least one cardiac cycle in which the proximal and distal pressure measurements are taken. Further in some embodiments the method further comprises temporally aligning at least a portion of the proximal pressure measurements with at least a portion of the distal pressure measurements.

Additional aspects features and advantages of the present disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description.

For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the present disclosure reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It is nevertheless understood that no limitation to the scope of the disclosure is intended. Any alterations and further modifications to the described devices systems and methods and any further application of the principles of the present disclosure are fully contemplated and included within the present disclosure as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the disclosure relates. In particular it is fully contemplated that the features components and or steps described with respect to one embodiment may be combined with the features components and or steps described with respect to other embodiments of the present disclosure. For the sake of brevity however the numerous iterations of these combinations will not be described separately.

Referring to shown therein is a vessel having a stenosis according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In that regard is a diagrammatic perspective view of the vessel while is a partial cross sectional perspective view of a portion of the vessel taken along section line of . Referring more specifically to the vessel includes a proximal portion and a distal portion . A lumen extends along the length of the vessel between the proximal portion and the distal portion . In that regard the lumen is configured to allow the flow of fluid through the vessel. In some instances the vessel is a systemic blood vessel. In some particular instances the vessel is a coronary artery. In such instances the lumen is configured to facilitate the flow of blood through the vessel .

As shown the vessel includes a stenosis between the proximal portion and the distal portion . Stenosis is generally representative of any blockage or other structural arrangement that results in a restriction to the flow of fluid through the lumen of the vessel . Embodiments of the present disclosure are suitable for use in a wide variety of vascular applications including without limitation coronary peripheral including but not limited to lower limb carotid and neurovascular renal and or venous. Where the vessel is a blood vessel the stenosis may be a result of plaque buildup including without limitation plaque components such as fibrous fibro lipidic fibro fatty necrotic core calcified dense calcium blood fresh thrombus and mature thrombus. Generally the composition of the stenosis will depend on the type of vessel being evaluated. In that regard it is understood that the concepts of the present disclosure are applicable to virtually any type of blockage or other narrowing of a vessel that results in decreased fluid flow.

Referring more particularly to the lumen of the vessel has a diameter proximal of the stenosis and a diameter distal of the stenosis. In some instances the diameters and are substantially equal to one another. In that regard the diameters and are intended to represent healthy portions or at least healthier portions of the lumen in comparison to stenosis . Accordingly these healthier portions of the lumen are illustrated as having a substantially constant cylindrical profile and as a result the height or width of the lumen has been referred to as a diameter. However it is understood that in many instances these portions of the lumen will also have plaque buildup a non symmetric profile and or other irregularities but to a lesser extent than stenosis and therefore will not have a cylindrical profile. In such instances the diameters and are understood to be representative of a relative size or cross sectional area of the lumen and do not imply a circular cross sectional profile.

As shown in stenosis includes plaque buildup that narrows the lumen of the vessel . In some instances the plaque buildup does not have a uniform or symmetrical profile making angiographic evaluation of such a stenosis unreliable. In the illustrated embodiment the plaque buildup includes an upper portion and an opposing lower portion . In that regard the lower portion has an increased thickness relative to the upper portion that results in a non symmetrical and non uniform profile relative to the portions of the lumen proximal and distal of the stenosis . As shown the plaque buildup decreases the available space for fluid to flow through the lumen . In particular the cross sectional area of the lumen is decreased by the plaque buildup . At the narrowest point between the upper and lower portions the lumen has a height which is representative of a reduced size or cross sectional area relative to the diameters and proximal and distal of the stenosis . Note that the stenosis including plaque buildup is exemplary in nature and should be considered limiting in any way. In that regard it is understood that the stenosis has other shapes and or compositions that limit the flow of fluid through the lumen in other instances. While the vessel is illustrated in as having a single stenosis and the description of the embodiments below is primarily made in the context of a single stenosis it is nevertheless understood that the devices systems and methods described herein have similar application for a vessel having multiple stenosis regions.

Referring now to the vessel is shown with instruments and positioned therein according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In general instruments and may be any form of device instrument or probe sized and shaped to be positioned within a vessel. In the illustrated embodiment instrument is generally representative of a guide wire while instrument is generally representative of a catheter. In that regard instrument extends through a central lumen of instrument . However in other embodiments the instruments and take other forms. In that regard the instruments and are of similar form in some embodiments. For example in some instances both instruments and are guide wires. In other instances both instruments and are catheters. On the other hand the instruments and are of different form in some embodiments such as the illustrated embodiment where one of the instruments is a catheter and the other is a guide wire. Further in some instances the instruments and are disposed coaxial with one another as shown in the illustrated embodiment of . In other instances one of the instruments extends through an off center lumen of the other instrument. In yet other instances the instruments and extend side by side. In some particular embodiments at least one of the instruments is as a rapid exchange device such as a rapid exchange catheter. In such embodiments the other instrument is a buddy wire or other device configured to facilitate the introduction and removal of the rapid exchange device. Further still in other instances instead of two separate instruments and a single instrument is utilized. In that regard the single instrument incorporates aspects of the functionalities e.g. data acquisition of both instruments and in some embodiments.

Instrument is configured to obtain diagnostic information about the vessel . In that regard the instrument includes one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements configured to obtain the diagnostic information about the vessel. The diagnostic information includes one or more of pressure flow velocity images including images obtained using ultrasound e.g. IVUS OCT thermal and or other imaging techniques temperature and or combinations thereof. The one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements are positioned adjacent a distal portion of the instrument in some instances. In that regard the one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements are positioned less than 30 cm less than 10 cm less than 5 cm less than 3 cm less than 2 cm and or less than 1 cm from a distal tip of the instrument in some instances. In some instances at least one of the one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements is positioned at the distal tip of the instrument .

The instrument includes at least one element configured to monitor pressure within the vessel . The pressure monitoring element can take the form a piezo resistive pressure sensor a piezo electric pressure sensor a capacitive pressure sensor an electromagnetic pressure sensor a fluid column the fluid column being in communication with a fluid column sensor that is separate from the instrument and or positioned at a portion of the instrument proximal of the fluid column an optical pressure sensor and or combinations thereof. In some instances one or more features of the pressure monitoring element are implemented as a solid state component manufactured using semiconductor and or other suitable manufacturing techniques. Examples of commercially available guide wire products that include suitable pressure monitoring elements include without limitation the PrimeWire PRESTIGE pressure guide wire the PrimeWire pressure guide wire and the ComboWire XT pressure and flow guide wire each available from Volcano Corporation as well as the PressureWire Certus guide wire and the PressureWire Aeris guide wire each available from St. Jude Medical Inc. Generally the instrument is sized such that it can be positioned through the stenosis without significantly impacting fluid flow across the stenosis which would impact the distal pressure reading. Accordingly in some instances the instrument has an outer diameter of 0.018 or less. In some embodiments the instrument has an outer diameter of 0.014 or less.

Instrument is also configured to obtain diagnostic information about the vessel . In some instances instrument is configured to obtain the same diagnostic information as instrument . In other instances instrument is configured to obtain different diagnostic information than instrument which may include additional diagnostic information less diagnostic information and or alternative diagnostic information. The diagnostic information obtained by instrument includes one or more of pressure flow velocity images including images obtained using ultrasound e.g. IVUS OCT thermal and or other imaging techniques temperature and or combinations thereof. Instrument includes one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements configured to obtain this diagnostic information. In that regard the one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements are positioned adjacent a distal portion of the instrument in some instances. In that regard the one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements are positioned less than 30 cm less than 10 cm less than 5 cm less than 3 cm less than 2 cm and or less than 1 cm from a distal tip of the instrument in some instances. In some instances at least one of the one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements is positioned at the distal tip of the instrument .

Similar to instrument instrument also includes at least one element configured to monitor pressure within the vessel . The pressure monitoring element can take the form a piezo resistive pressure sensor a piezo electric pressure sensor a capacitive pressure sensor an electromagnetic pressure sensor a fluid column the fluid column being in communication with a fluid column sensor that is separate from the instrument and or positioned at a portion of the instrument proximal of the fluid column an optical pressure sensor and or combinations thereof. In some instances one or more features of the pressure monitoring element are implemented as a solid state component manufactured using semiconductor and or other suitable manufacturing techniques. Millar catheters are utilized in some embodiments. Currently available catheter products suitable for use with one or more of Philips s Xper Flex Cardio Physiomonitoring System GE s Mac Lab XT and XTi hemodynamic recording systems Siemens s AXIOM Sensis XP VC11 McKesson s Horizon Cardiology Hemo and Mennen s Horizon XVu Hemodynamic Monitoring System and include pressure monitoring elements can be utilized for instrument in some instances.

In accordance with aspects of the present disclosure at least one of the instruments and is configured to monitor a pressure within the vessel distal of the stenosis and at least one of the instruments and is configured to monitor a pressure within the vessel proximal of the stenosis. In that regard the instruments are sized and shaped to allow positioning of the at least one element configured to monitor pressure within the vessel to be positioned proximal and or distal of the stenosis as necessary based on the configuration of the devices. In that regard illustrates a position suitable for measuring pressure distal of the stenosis . In that regard the position is less than 5 cm less than 3 cm less than 2 cm less than 1 cm less than 5 mm and or less than 2.5 mm from the distal end of the stenosis as shown in in some instances. also illustrates a plurality of suitable positions for measuring pressure proximal of the stenosis . In that regard positions and each represent a position that is suitable for monitoring the pressure proximal of the stenosis in some instances. In that regard the positions and are positioned at varying distances from the proximal end of the stenosis ranging from more than 20 cm down to about 5 mm or less. Generally the proximal pressure measurement will be spaced from the proximal end of the stenosis. Accordingly in some instances the proximal pressure measurement is taken at a distance equal to or greater than an inner diameter of the lumen of the vessel from the proximal end of the stenosis. In the context of coronary artery pressure measurements the proximal pressure measurement is generally taken at a position proximal of the stenosis and distal of the aorta within a proximal portion of the vessel. However in some particular instances of coronary artery pressure measurements the proximal pressure measurement is taken from a location inside the aorta. In other instances the proximal pressure measurement is taken at the root or ostium of the coronary artery.

Referring now to shown therein is a system according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In that regard is a diagrammatic schematic view of the system . As shown the system includes an instrument . In that regard in some instances instrument is suitable for use as at least one of instruments and discussed above. Accordingly in some instances the instrument includes features similar to those discussed above with respect to instruments and in some instances. In the illustrated embodiment the instrument is a guide wire having a distal portion and a housing positioned adjacent the distal portion. In that regard the housing is spaced approximately 3 cm from a distal tip of the instrument . The housing is configured to house one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements configured to obtain the diagnostic information about the vessel. In the illustrated embodiment the housing contains at least a pressure sensor configured to monitor a pressure within a lumen in which the instrument is positioned. A shaft extends proximally from the housing . A torque device is positioned over and coupled to a proximal portion of the shaft . A proximal end portion of the instrument is coupled to a connector . A cable extends from connector to a connector . In some instances connector is configured to be plugged into an interface . In that regard interface is a patient interface module PIM in some instances. In some instances the cable is replaced with a wireless connection. In that regard it is understood that various communication pathways between the instrument and the interface may be utilized including physical connections including electrical optical and or fluid connections wireless connections and or combinations thereof.

The interface is communicatively coupled to a computing device via a connection . Computing device is generally representative of any device suitable for performing the processing and analysis techniques discussed within the present disclosure. In some embodiments the computing device includes a processor random access memory and a storage medium. In that regard in some particular instances the computing device is programmed to execute steps associated with the data acquisition and analysis described herein. Accordingly it is understood that any steps related to data acquisition data processing instrument control and or other processing or control aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented by the computing device using corresponding instructions stored on or in a non transitory computer readable medium accessible by the computing device. In some instances the computing device is a console device. In some particular instances the computing device is similar to the s5 Imaging System or the s5i Imaging System each available from Volcano Corporation. In some instances the computing device is portable e.g. handheld on a rolling cart etc. . Further it is understood that in some instances the computing device comprises a plurality of computing devices. In that regard it is particularly understood that the different processing and or control aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented separately or within predefined groupings using a plurality of computing devices. Any divisions and or combinations of the processing and or control aspects described below across multiple computing devices are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Together connector cable connector interface and connection facilitate communication between the one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements of the instrument and the computing device . However this communication pathway is exemplary in nature and should not be considered limiting in any way. In that regard it is understood that any communication pathway between the instrument and the computing device may be utilized including physical connections including electrical optical and or fluid connections wireless connections and or combinations thereof. In that regard it is understood that the connection is wireless in some instances. In some instances the connection includes a communication link over a network e.g. intranet internet telecommunications network and or other network . In that regard it is understood that the computing device is positioned remote from an operating area where the instrument is being used in some instances. Having the connection include a connection over a network can facilitate communication between the instrument and the remote computing device regardless of whether the computing device is in an adjacent room an adjacent building or in a different state country. Further it is understood that the communication pathway between the instrument and the computing device is a secure connection in some instances. Further still it is understood that in some instances the data communicated over one or more portions of the communication pathway between the instrument and the computing device is encrypted.

The system also includes an instrument . In that regard in some instances instrument is suitable for use as at least one of instruments and discussed above. Accordingly in some instances the instrument includes features similar to those discussed above with respect to instruments and in some instances. In the illustrated embodiment the instrument is a catheter type device. In that regard the instrument includes one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements adjacent a distal portion of the instrument configured to obtain the diagnostic information about the vessel. In the illustrated embodiment the instrument includes a pressure sensor configured to monitor a pressure within a lumen in which the instrument is positioned. The instrument is in communication with an interface via connection . In some instances interface is a hemodynamic monitoring system or other control device such as Siemens AXIOM Sensis Mennen Horizon XVu and Philips Xper IM Physiomonitoring 5. In one particular embodiment instrument is a pressure sensing catheter that includes fluid column extending along its length. In such an embodiment interface includes a hemostasis valve fluidly coupled to the fluid column of the catheter a manifold fluidly coupled to the hemostasis valve and tubing extending between the components as necessary to fluidly couple the components. In that regard the fluid column of the catheter is in fluid communication with a pressure sensor via the valve manifold and tubing. In some instances the pressure sensor is part of interface . In other instances the pressure sensor is a separate component positioned between the instrument and the interface . The interface is communicatively coupled to the computing device via a connection .

Similar to the connections between instrument and the computing device interface and connections and facilitate communication between the one or more sensors transducers and or other monitoring elements of the instrument and the computing device . However this communication pathway is exemplary in nature and should not be considered limiting in any way. In that regard it is understood that any communication pathway between the instrument and the computing device may be utilized including physical connections including electrical optical and or fluid connections wireless connections and or combinations thereof. In that regard it is understood that the connection is wireless in some instances. In some instances the connection includes a communication link over a network e.g. intranet internet telecommunications network and or other network . In that regard it is understood that the computing device is positioned remote from an operating area where the instrument is being used in some instances. Having the connection include a connection over a network can facilitate communication between the instrument and the remote computing device regardless of whether the computing device is in an adjacent room an adjacent building or in a different state country. Further it is understood that the communication pathway between the instrument and the computing device is a secure connection in some instances. Further still it is understood that in some instances the data communicated over one or more portions of the communication pathway between the instrument and the computing device is encrypted.

It is understood that one or more components of the system are not included are implemented in a different arrangement order and or are replaced with an alternative device mechanism in other embodiments of the present disclosure. For example in some instances the system does not include interface and or interface . In such instances the connector or other similar connector in communication with instrument or instrument may plug into a port associated with computing device . Alternatively the instruments may communicate wirelessly with the computing device . Generally speaking the communication pathway between either or both of the instruments and the computing device may have no intermediate nodes i.e. a direct connection one intermediate node between the instrument and the computing device or a plurality of intermediate nodes between the instrument and the computing device.

Referring now to shown therein are graphical representations of diagnostic information illustrating aspects of an embodiment of the present disclosure. In that regard is a graphical representation of measured pressure velocity and resistance within a vessel is a magnified view of a portion of the graphical representation of corresponding to a resting state of a patient is a magnified view of a portion of the graphical representation of corresponding to a hyperemic state of a patient and is the portion of the graphical representation of annotated to identify a diagnostic window according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

Referring more particularly to shown therein is a graphical representation of diagnostic information pertaining to a vessel. More specifically the graphical representation includes a graph plotting pressure within the vessel over time a graph plotting velocity of the fluid within the vessel over time and a graph plotting resistance within the vessel over time. In that regard the resistance or impedance shown in graph is calculated based on the pressure and velocity data of graphs and . In particular the resistance values shown in graph are determined by dividing the pressure measurement of graph by the velocity measurement for the corresponding point in time. The graphical representation includes a time period that corresponds to a resting state of the patient s heart and a time period that corresponds to a stressed state of the patient s heart. In that regard the stressed state of the patient s heart is caused by the administration of a hyperemic agent in some instances.

To better illustrate the differences in the pressure velocity and resistance data between the resting and stressed states of the patient close up views of the data within windows and are provided in . Referring more specifically to window of the graphical representation includes graph portions and that correspond to graphs and respectively. As shown in the resting state of the resistance within the vessel has an average value of approximately 0.35 on the scale of graph as indicated by line . Referring now to window of the graphical representation includes graph portions and that correspond to graphs and respectively. As shown in the stressed state of the resistance within the vessel is significantly less than the resting state with a value of approximately 0.20 on the scale of graph as indicated by line . As current FFR techniques rely on the average pressures across an entire heartbeat cycle it is necessary to stress the patient s heart to achieve this reduced and relatively constant resistance across the entire heartbeat so that the data obtained is suitable for use with FFR techniques.

Referring to similar to window of the graphical representation of is shown and includes graph portions and that correspond to graphs and respectively. However in a section of the heartbeat cycle of the patient has been identified. As shown section corresponds to the portion of the heartbeat cycle of the patient where the resistance is reduced without the use of a hyperemic agent or other stressing technique. That is section is a portion of the heartbeat cycle of a resting patient that has a naturally reduced and relatively constant resistance. In other instances section of the heartbeat cycle encompasses the portion the heartbeat cycle that is less than a fixed percentage of the maximum resistance of the heartbeat cycle. In that regard the fixed percentage of the maximum resistance of the heartbeat cycle is less than 50 less than 30 less than 25 less than 20 less than 15 less than 10 and less than 5 in some embodiments. In yet other instances section of the heartbeat cycle encompasses the portion the heartbeat cycle that is less than a fixed percentage of the average resistance of the heartbeat cycle. In that regard the fixed percentage of the average resistance of the heartbeat cycle is less than 75 less than 50 less than 25 less than 20 less than 15 less than 10 and less than 5 in some embodiments.

Accordingly in some embodiments of the present disclosure the portion of the heartbeat cycle coinciding with section is utilized as a diagnostic window for evaluating a stenosis of the vessel of a patient without the use of a hyperemic agent or other stressing of the patient s heart. In particular the pressure ratio distal pressure divided by proximal pressure across the stenosis is calculated for the time period corresponding to section for one or more heartbeats. The calculated pressure ratio is an average over the diagnostic window defined by section in some instances. By comparing the calculated pressure ratio to a threshold or predetermined value a physician or other treating medical personnel can determine what if any treatment should be administered. In that regard in some instances a calculated pressure ratio above a threshold value e.g. 0.80 on a scale of 0.00 to 1.00 is indicative of a first treatment mode e.g. no treatment drug therapy etc. while a calculated pressure ratio below the threshold value is indicative of a second more invasive treatment mode e.g. angioplasty stent etc. . In some instances the threshold value is a fixed preset value. In other instances the threshold value is selected for a particular patient and or a particular stenosis of a patient. In that regard the threshold value for a particular patient may be based on one or more of empirical data patient characteristics patient history physician preference available treatment options and or other parameters.

In some instances section is identified by monitoring pressure and fluid flow velocity within the vessel using one or more instruments and calculating the resistance within the vessel based on the measured pressure and velocity. For example referring again to the embodiment of in some instances the instrument includes one or more sensing elements configured to monitor at least pressure and flow velocity while instrument includes one or more sensing elements configured to monitor at least pressure. Accordingly with the one or more sensing elements of instrument positioned distal of the stenosis and the one or more sensing elements of instrument positioned proximal of the stenosis the pressure and flow velocity measurements obtained by instrument are utilized to identify section . Based on the identification of section then the corresponding distal pressure measurements as obtained by the one or more sensing elements of instrument are compared to the proximal pressure measurements as obtained by the one or more sensing elements of instrument to calculate the pressure ratio across the stenosis during the diagnostic window defined by section . Additional examples of evaluating a vessel based on pressure and flow velocity measurements are described in UK Patent Application No. 1003964.2 filed Mar. 10 2010 and titled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR THE MEASUREMENT OF A FLUID FLOW RESTRICTION IN A VESSEL which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In other instances section is identified without monitoring fluid velocity. In that regard several techniques for identifying suitable diagnostic windows for use in evaluating a stenosis of a vessel based on pressure ratio across the stenosis without the use of hyperemic agents are described below. In some instances the diagnostic window is identified solely based on characteristics of the pressure measurements obtained by instruments positioned within the vessel. Accordingly in such instances the instruments utilized need only have elements configured to monitor a pressure within the vessel which results in reduced cost and simplification of the system. Exemplary techniques for evaluating a vessel based on pressure measurements are described in UK Patent Application No. 1100137.7 filed Jan. 6 2011 and titled APPARATUS AND METHOD OF ASSESSING A NARROWING IN A FLUID FILLED TUBE which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In general the diagnostic window for evaluating differential pressure across a stenosis without the use of a hyperemic agent in accordance with the present disclosure may be identified based on characteristics and or components of one or more of proximal pressure measurements distal pressure measurements proximal velocity measurements distal velocity measurements ECG waveforms and or other identifiable and or measurable aspects of vessel performance. In that regard various signal processing and or computational techniques can be applied to the characteristics and or components of one or more of proximal pressure measurements distal pressure measurements proximal velocity measurements distal velocity measurements ECG waveforms and or other identifiable and or measurable aspects of vessel performance to identify a suitable diagnostic window.

In some embodiments the determination of the diagnostic window and or the calculation of the pressure differential are performed in approximately real time or live to identify the section and calculate the pressure ratio. In that regard calculating the pressure ratio in real time or live within the context of the present disclosure is understood to encompass calculations that occur within 10 seconds of data acquisition. It is recognized however that often real time or live calculations are performed within 1 second of data acquisition. In some instances the real time or live calculations are performed concurrent with data acquisition. In some instances the calculations are performed by a processor in the delays between data acquisitions. For example if data is acquired from the pressure sensing devices for 1 ms every 5 ms then in the 4 ms between data acquisitions the processor can perform the calculations. It is understood that these timings are for example only and that data acquisition rates processing times and or other parameters surrounding the calculations will vary. In other embodiments the pressure ratio calculation is performed 10 or more seconds after data acquisition. For example in some embodiments the data utilized to identify the diagnostic window and or calculate the pressure ratio are stored for later analysis.

Referring now to shown therein are graphical representations of diagnostic information illustrating aspects of another embodiment of the present disclosure. In that regard is a graphical representation of measured pressure and velocity within a vessel is a graphical representation of a differential of the measured velocity of and is the graphical representation of measured pressure and velocity within the vessel annotated to identify a diagnostic window according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

Referring more specifically to graphical representation includes a plot representative of pressure measured in mmHg within a vessel over the time period of one cardiac cycle and a plot representative of velocity measured in m s of a fluid within the vessel over the same cardiac cycle. in turn is a graphical representation of a differential of the velocity plot of graphical representation of . In that regard in some instances the velocity differential or change in velocity dU is calculated as

As shown in for a time period extending from about 625 ms to about 1000 ms the differential of the velocity plot is relatively stabilized around zero. In other words the velocity of the fluid within the vessel and or the vascular resistance is relatively constant during time period . In some instances the velocity is considered stabilized when it varies between 0.01 and 0.01 and in some specific instance is considered stabilized when it varies between about 0.005 and about 0.005. However in other instances the velocity is considered stabilized with values outside of these ranges. Similarly for a time period extending from about 200 ms to about 350 ms the differential of the velocity plot is relatively stabilized around zero representing that the velocity of the fluid within the vessel is substantially constant during time period as well. However time period can be highly variable as valvular disease dyssynchrony within a ventricle regional myocardial contractile differences microvascular disease can all lead to large variations of timing of the time period . As discussed below all or portions of the time periods and or are utilized as a diagnostic window for evaluating pressure ratio across a stenosis in some embodiments of the present disclosure. In that regard the diagnostic window is selected by identifying a portion of the cardiac cycle corresponding to the time period in which the change in velocity i.e. dU fluctuates around zero. shows the graphical representation of annotated to identify a diagnostic window corresponding to the time period of . In other instances the diagnostic window is selected by identifying a portion of the cardiac cycle corresponding to a period in which the change in velocity i.e. dU is relatively small compared to the maximum change in velocity i.e. dU during a cardiac cycle. In the illustrated embodiment of the maximum change in velocity i.e. dU occurs at point . In some instances the diagnostic window is selected by identifying the portion s of the cardiac cycle where the change in velocity i.e. dU is less than 25 less than 20 less than 15 less than 10 and or less than 5 of the maximum change in velocity i.e. dU for the cardiac cycle.

There are a variety of signal processing techniques that can be utilized to identify time period time period and or other time periods where the change in velocity is relatively constant and approximately zero such as variation or standard deviation from the mean minimum threshold offset or otherwise. Further while time periods and have been identified using a differential of the velocity measurement in other instances first second and or third derivatives of the velocity measurement are utilized. For example identifying time periods during the cardiac cycle where the first derivative of velocity is relatively constant and approximately zero allows the localization of time periods where velocity is relatively constant. Further identifying time periods during the cardiac cycle where the second derivative of velocity is relatively constant and approximately zero allows the localization of a time period where acceleration is relatively constant and near zero but not necessarily zero.

Time periods and or other time periods where the change in velocity is relatively constant and approximately zero i.e. the speed of the fluid flow is stabilized are suitable diagnostic windows for evaluating a pressure differential across a stenosis of a vessel without the use of a hyperemic agent in accordance with the present disclosure. In that regard in a fluid flow system the separated forward and backward generated pressures are defined by 

Accordingly during such time periods the severity of a stenosis within the vessel can be evaluated based on pressure measurements taken proximal and distal of the stenosis. In that regard by comparing the forward and or backward generated pressure distal of a stenosis to the forward and or backward generated pressure proximal of the stenosis an evaluation of the severity of the stenosis can be made. For example the forward generated pressure differential can be calculated as

In the context of the coronary arteries a forward generated pressure differential is utilized to evaluate a stenosis in some instances. In that regard the forward generated pressure differential is calculated based on proximally originating i.e. originating from the aorta separated forward pressure waves and or reflections of the proximally originating separated forward pressure waves from vascular structures distal of the aorta in some instances. In other instances a backward generated pressure differential is utilized in the context of the coronary arteries to evaluate a stenosis. In that regard the backward generated pressure differential is calculated based on distally originating i.e. originating from the microvasculature separated backward pressure waves and or reflections of the distally originating separated backward pressure waves from vascular structures proximal of the microvasculature.

In yet other instances a pressure wave is introduced into the vessel by an instrument or medical device. In that regard the instrument or medical device is utilized to generate a proximally originating forward pressure wave a distally originating backward pressure wave and or combinations thereof for use in evaluating the severity of the stenosis. For example in some embodiments an instrument having a movable membrane is positioned within the vessel. The movable membrane of the instrument is then activated to cause movement of the membrane and generation of a corresponding pressure wave within the fluid of the vessel. Based on the configuration of the instrument position of the membrane within the vessel and or the orientation of the membrane within the vessel the generated pressure wave s will be directed distally proximally and or both. Pressure measurements based on the generated pressure wave s can then be analyzed to determine the severity of the stenosis.

Referring now to shown therein are graphical representations of diagnostic information illustrating aspects of another embodiment of the present disclosure. In that regard is a graphical representation of wave intensity within a vessel is a graphical representation of proximal and distal originating pressure waves within the vessel corresponding to the wave intensity of is a graphical representation of pressure and velocity within the vessel corresponding to the wave intensity of and the proximal and distal originating pressure waves of and is a graphical representation of a resistance within the vessel corresponding to the wave intensity of the proximal and distal originating pressure waves of and the pressure and velocity of .

Referring more specifically to shown therein is a graphical representation plotting the intensities associated with proximally and distally originating waves of a cardiac cycle over time. In that regard plot is representative of proximally originating waves while plot is representative of distally originating waves. As shown six predominating waves are associated with the cardiac cycle of a patient. In order of occurrence during a cardiac cycle wave is a backward traveling pushing wave wave is a dominant forward traveling pushing wave wave is a backward traveling pushing wave wave is a forward traveling suction wave wave is a dominant backward traveling suction wave and wave is a forward traveling pushing wave. Notably no waves are generated during a time period late in the cardiac cycle. In some instances the time period is referred to as a wave free period of the cardiac cycle. Additional details regarding pressure waves in the context of the coronary arteries can be found in Evidence of a Dominant Backward Propagating Suction Wave Responsible for Diastolic Coronary Filling in Humans Attenuated in Left Ventricular Hypertrophy by Davies et al. 2006 113 1768 1778 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Referring now to shown therein is a graphical representation of proximal and distal originating pressure waves within a vessel over a time period associated with a cardiac cycle. In that regard the pressure waves of correspond to the wave intensities of . As shown the graphical representation includes a plot representative of a proximally originating pressure a plot representative of a distally originating pressure and a plot representative of the total pressure proximally originating pressure plus the distally originating pressure .

Referring now to shown therein is a graphical representation that includes a plot representative of pressure measured in mmHg within a vessel over time and a plot representative of velocity measured in cm s of a fluid within the vessel over time. In that regard the pressure and velocity plots of correspond to the wave intensities and pressure waves of respectively. As shown for the wave free time period extending from about 475 ms to about 675 ms the slopes of the pressure plot and the velocity plot are relatively constant. At this time point as shown in the resistance within the vessel is relatively constant and reduced during the time period . In that regard the graphical representation of includes a plot of the resistance within the vessel over the time of a cardiac cycle. In that regard the resistance values of graphical representation are calculated using the pressure and velocity measurements of where resistance is equal to pressure divided by velocity for a particular point in time along the cardiac cycle. Due to the reduced and relative constant resistance during time period all or a portion of the time period is suitable for use as a diagnostic window for evaluating pressure differential across a stenosis in some embodiments of the present disclosure. In that regard in some embodiments the diagnostic window is the period of minimum resistance that corresponds to the wave free period at the end of the backward travelling suction wave running to shortly before the end of the cardiac cycle.

Referring now to shown therein are various graphical representations of techniques for determining start and or end points for a diagnostic window in accordance with the present disclosure. In that regard generally illustrate identification of a starting point of a diagnostic window based on a proximal pressure measurement generally illustrate identification of a starting point of a diagnostic window based on a distal pressure measurement illustrates identification of an end of a diagnostic window based on a starting point of the diagnostic window illustrates identification of an ending point of a diagnostic window based on a proximal pressure measurement and illustrate identification of an ending point of a diagnostic window based on a distal pressure measurement.

As shown in a graphical representation includes a proximal pressure reading and a distal pressure reading each plotted over time relative to a cardiac cycle. In that regard the proximal pressure reading is representative of a pressure proximal of a stenosis of a vessel. The proximal pressure reading is based upon a partial pressure e.g. forward generated or backward generated in some instances. Similarly the distal pressure reading is representative of a pressure distal of the stenosis. The distal pressure reading is based upon a partial pressure e.g. forward generated or backward generated in some instances.

For simplicity and consistency the proximal and distal pressure readings and provided in will be utilized in describing the techniques associated with as well. However with respect to all of the disclosed techniques the proximal and distal pressure readings and are exemplary and should not be considered limiting in any way. In that regard it is understood that the pressure readings will vary from patient to patient and even between cardiac cycles of a single patient. Accordingly it is understood that the techniques described herein for identifying a diagnostic window based on these pressure readings are suitable for use with a wide variety of pressure reading plots. Further it is understood that the techniques described below are calculated or determined over a plurality of cardiac cycles in some instances. For example in some embodiments the diagnostic window is identified by making calculations over a plurality of cardiac cycles and calculating an average or mean value identifying overlapping areas common to the plurality of cardiac cycles and or otherwise identifying a suitable time period for a diagnostic window. Further still it is understood that two or more of the techniques described below may be utilized together to identify a starting point ending point and or other aspect of a diagnostic window.

Referring now to shown therein are several techniques for identifying a starting point of a diagnostic window based on a proximal pressure measurement. Referring more specifically to the starting point of the diagnostic window is determined by identifying a dicrotic notch and adding a fixed amount of time in some instances. As shown in a dicrotic notch has been identified and a fixed time period has been added to determine the starting point of a diagnostic window. The fixed time period is between about 1 ms and about 500 ms in some instances. In some particular instances the time period is between about 25 ms and about 150 ms. In other instances the amount of time added to the start of diastole is selected based on a percentage of the cardiac cycle or a percentage of the length of diastole. For example in some instances the amount of time added is between about 0 and about 70 of the length of the cardiac cycle. In yet other instances no time is added to the dicrotic notch such that the dicrotic notch is the starting point .

In another embodiment a start of diastole is identified based on the proximal pressure measurements and a fixed time period is added to determine the starting point of a diagnostic window. The fixed time period is between about 1 ms and about 500 ms. In some particular embodiments the fixed time period is between the beginning of diastole and the start of the diagnostic window is between about 25 ms and about 200 ms. In other instances the amount of time added to the start of diastole is selected based on a percentage of the cardiac cycle or a percentage of the length of diastole. For example in some instances the time added to the start of diastole is between about 0 and about 70 of the cardiac cycle. In other instances the time added to the start of diastole is between about 0 and about 100 of the total length of the diastole portion of the cardiac cycle. In some instances the time added to the start of diastole is between about 2 and about 75 of the total length of the diastole portion of the cardiac cycle. In yet other instances no time is added to the start of diastole such that the start of diastole is also the starting point of the diagnostic window.

Referring now to the starting point of the diagnostic window is determined by identifying a peak proximal pressure and adding a fixed amount of time in some instances. As shown in the graphical representation of a peak pressure has been identified and a fixed time period has been added to determine the starting point of a diagnostic window. The fixed time period is between about 1 ms and about 550 ms in some instances. In some instances the fixed time period is between about 25 ms and about 175 ms. In other instances the amount of time added to the peak proximal pressure is selected based on a percentage of the cardiac cycle or a percentage of the length of diastole. For example in some instances the amount of time added is between about 0 and about 70 of the length of the cardiac cycle. In yet other instances no time is added to the peak proximal pressure such that the peak pressure is the starting point .

Referring now to the starting point of the diagnostic window is determined by identifying the start of a cardiac cycle and adding a fixed amount of time in some instances. As shown in the graphical representation of a start of the cardiac cycle has been identified and a fixed time period has been added to determine the starting point of a diagnostic window. The fixed time period is between about 150 ms and about 900 ms in some instances. In some instances the fixed time period is between about 300 ms and about 600 ms. In some particular embodiments the fixed time period is calculated as a percentage of the length of a cardiac cycle of the patient. As shown in an end of the cardiac cycle has been identified such that the length of the cardiac cycle extends between the start and the end . The percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle utilized for calculating the starting point is between about 25 and about 95 in some instances. In some instances the percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle is between about 40 and about 75 . In yet other instances no time is added to the start of the cardiac cycle such that the start of the cardiac cycle is the starting point .

Referring now to shown therein are several techniques for identifying a starting point of a diagnostic window based on a distal pressure measurement. Referring more specifically to the starting point of the diagnostic window is determined by identifying a dicrotic notch and adding a fixed amount of time in some instances. As shown in the graphical representation of a dicrotic notch has been identified and a fixed time period has been added to determine the starting point of a diagnostic window. The fixed time period is between about 1 ms and about 500 ms in some instances. In some instances the fixed time period is between about 25 ms and about 150 ms. In other instances a peak pressure is identified based on the distal pressure measurements and a fixed time period is added to determine the starting point of a diagnostic window. The fixed time period relative to the peak pressure is between about 1 ms and about 550 ms in some instances. In some instances the fixed time period is between about 25 ms and about 175 ms. In yet other instances no time is added to the dicrotic notch such that the dicrotic notch is the starting point .

In another embodiment a start of diastole is identified based on the distal pressure measurements and a fixed time period is added to determine the starting point of a diagnostic window. The fixed time period is between about 1 ms and about 500 ms. In some particular embodiments the fixed time period between the beginning of diastole and the start of the diagnostic window is between about 25 ms and about 200 ms. In other instances the amount of time added to the start of diastole is selected based on a percentage of the cardiac cycle or a percentage of the length of diastole. For example in some instances the time added to the start of diastole is between about 0 and about 70 of the cardiac cycle. In other instances the time added to the start of diastole is between about 0 and about 100 of the total length of the diastole portion of the cardiac cycle. In some instances the time added to the start of diastole is between about 2 and about 75 of the total length of the diastole portion of the cardiac cycle. In yet other instances no time is added to the start of diastole such that the start of diastole is the starting point of the diagnostic window.

Referring now to the starting point of the diagnostic window is determined by identifying a maximum change in pressure and adding a fixed amount of time in some instances. In some particular instances the maximum change in pressure after a peak distal pressure is utilized as the basis point from which the fixed amount of time is added. As shown in the graphical representation of after peak pressure the point having a maximum change in pressure i.e. dP dt is identified by point . A fixed time period has been added to point to determine the starting point of a diagnostic window. The fixed time period is between about 1 ms and about 500 ms in some instances. In some instances the fixed time period is between about 25 ms and about 150 ms. In some particular embodiments the fixed time period is calculated as a percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle of the patient. The percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle utilized for calculating the starting point is between about 0 and about 70 in some instances. In yet other instances no time is added to the point representative of the maximum change in pressure such that the point is the starting point .

Referring now to the starting point of the diagnostic window is determined by identifying the start of a cardiac cycle and adding a fixed amount of time in some instances. As shown in the graphical representation of a start of the cardiac cycle has been identified and a fixed time period has been added to determine the starting point of a diagnostic window. The fixed time period is between about 150 ms and about 900 ms in some instances. In some instances the fixed time period is between about 300 ms and about 600 ms. In some particular embodiments the fixed time period is calculated as a percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle of the patient. As shown in an end of the cardiac cycle has been identified such that the length of the cardiac cycle extends between the start and the end . The percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle utilized for calculating the starting point is between about 25 and about 95 in some instances. In some particular instances the percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle is between about 40 and about 75 . In yet other instances no time is added to the start of the cardiac cycle such that the start of the cardiac cycle is the starting point .

Referring now to the starting point of the diagnostic window is determined by identifying a ventricularization point in some instances. As shown in the graphical representation of a ventricularization point of the cardiac cycle has been identified. In some instances the ventricularization point is identified based on the change in slope of the distal pressure reading. In the illustrated embodiment the starting point of the diagnostic window substantially coincides with the ventricularization point . In other instances the starting point is set to be a fixed amount of time before or after the ventricularization point. In that regard the fixed time period is between about 250 ms and about 400 ms in some instances. In some instances the fixed time period is between about 50 ms and about 100 ms.

Referring now to shown therein is a graphical representation illustrating a technique for identifying an ending point of a diagnostic window based on a starting point of the diagnostic window. As shown the diagnostic window has an ending point that is spaced from the starting point by a fixed amount of time . The fixed time period is between about 1 ms and about 700 ms in some instances. In some instances the fixed time period is between about 200 ms and about 500 ms. In some particular embodiments the fixed time period is calculated as a percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle of the patient. The percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle utilized for calculating the time period is between about 0 and about 70 in some instances. In some instances the percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle is between about 25 and about 50 . In other instances the diagnostic window is a specific point in the cardiac cycle such that time is zero. In that regard the techniques described for identifying the starting point and or the ending point of a diagnostic window are suitable for identifying such a diagnostic point in the cardiac cycle for evaluating pressure differential. In some instances a diagnostic window for a single cardiac cycle is comprised of a plurality of discrete diagnostic points along the single cardiac cycle.

Referring now to shown therein is a graphical representation illustrating a technique for identifying an ending point of a diagnostic window based on identifying the end of a cardiac cycle according to a proximal pressure measurement which is an aortic pressure measurement in some instances and subtracting a fixed amount of time. As shown an end of the cardiac cycle has been identified and a fixed time period has been subtracted to determine the ending point of a diagnostic window. The fixed time period is between about 1 ms and about 600 ms in some instances. In some particular embodiments the fixed time period is calculated as a percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle of the patient. The percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle utilized for calculating the time period is between about 0 and about 70 in some instances. In some instances the percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle is between about 1 and about 25 . In yet other instances no time is subtracted from the end of the cardiac cycle such that the end of the cardiac cycle is the ending point .

Referring now to shown therein are techniques for identifying an ending point of a diagnostic window based on a distal pressure measurement. Referring more specifically to shown therein is a graphical representation illustrating a technique for identifying an ending point of a diagnostic window based on identifying the end of a cardiac cycle according to a distal pressure measurement and subtracting a fixed amount of time. As shown an end of the cardiac cycle has been identified and a fixed time period has been subtracted to determine the ending point of a diagnostic window. The fixed time period is between about 1 ms and about 600 ms. In some instances the fixed time period is between about 5 ms and about 100 ms. In some particular embodiments the fixed time period is calculated as a percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle of the patient. The percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle utilized for calculating the time period is between about 0 and about 70 . In some instances the percentage of the length of the cardiac cycle is between about 1 and about 25 . In yet other instances no time is subtracted from the end of the cardiac cycle such that the end of the cardiac cycle is the ending point .

Referring to shown therein is a graphical representation illustrating a technique for identifying an ending of a diagnostic window based on identifying the ventricularization point of a distal pressure measurement. As shown a ventricularization point of the cardiac cycle has been identified. In some instances the ventricularization point is identified based on the change in slope of the distal pressure reading. In the illustrated embodiment an ending point of the diagnostic window substantially coincides with the ventricularization point . In other instances the ending point is set to be a fixed amount of time before or after the ventricularization point. In that regard the fixed time period is between about 200 ms and about 450 ms. In some instances the fixed time period is between about 50 ms and about 100 ms.

Referring now to shown therein are graphical representations of exemplary diagnostic windows relative to proximal and distal pressure measurements. In that regard illustrates a diagnostic window that begins shortly after ventricularization while illustrates a diagnostic window that begins before ventricularization.

Referring more specifically to graphical representation shows a diagnostic window that includes a starting point and an ending point . In some instances the starting point is selected using one or more of the techniques described above for identifying a starting point of a diagnostic window. Similarly in some instances the ending point is selected using one or more of the techniques described above for identifying an ending point of a diagnostic window. As shown the diagnostic window begins after the ventricularization point of the distal pressure reading and ends before the end of the cardiac cycle.

Referring now to graphical representation shows a diagnostic window that includes a starting point and an ending point . In some instances the starting point is selected using one or more of the techniques described above for identifying a starting point of a diagnostic window. Similarly in some instances the ending point is selected using one or more of the techniques described above for identifying an ending point of a diagnostic window. As shown the diagnostic window begins before the ventricularization point of the distal pressure reading and ends before the end of the cardiac cycle such that the ventricularization point is included within the diagnostic window .

Referring now to shown therein is graphical representation of an ECG signal annotated with exemplary diagnostic windows according embodiments of the present disclosure. Generally at least one identifiable feature of the ECG signal including without limitation the start of a P wave the peak of a P wave the end of a P wave a PR interval a PR segment the beginning of a QRS complex the start of an R wave the peak of an R wave the end of an R wave the end of a QRS complex J point an ST segment the start of a T wave the peak of a T wave and the end of a T wave is utilized to select that starting point and or ending point of the diagnostic window. For example in some instances a diagnostic window is identified using the decline of the T wave as the starting point and the start of the R wave as the ending point. In some instances the starting point and or ending point of the diagnostic window is determined by adding a fixed amount of time to an identifiable feature of the ECG signal. In that regard the fixed amount time is a percentage of the cardiac cycle in some instances.

Referring now to shown therein is a graphical representation of a proximal pressure and a distal pressure over a series of cardiac cycles of a patient. In that regard a diagnostic window has been identified that includes a starting point and an ending point for a cardiac cycle . The diagnostic window is defined by the starting point and the ending point . In the illustrated embodiment the starting point is selected to be positioned at a fixed percentage of the total diastole time of the cardiac cycle after a maximum decline in pressure. In some instances the fixed percentage of the total diastole time added to the point of maximum pressure decline to determine the starting point is between about 10 and about 60 with some particular embodiments having a percentage between about 20 and about 30 and with one particular embodiment having a percentage of about 25 . The ending point is selected to be positioned at a fixed percentage of the total diastole time or diastolic window from the beginning of diastole for the cardiac cycle . In some instances the fixed percentage of the total diastole time added to the beginning of diastole to determine the ending point is between about 40 and about 90 with some particular embodiments having a percentage between about 60 and about 80 and with one particular embodiment having a percentage of about 70 . In other embodiments the ending point is selected to be positioned at a fixed percentage of the total diastole time or diastolic window from the end of diastole for the cardiac cycle . In some instances the fixed percentage of the total diastole time subtracted from the end of diastole to determine the ending point is between about 10 and about 60 with some particular embodiments having a percentage between about 20 and about 40 and with one particular embodiment having a percentage of about 30 . Accordingly in the illustrated embodiment both the starting point and ending point are selected based on a proportion of diastole of the cardiac cycle . As a result diagnostic windows defined using such techniques for multiple cardiac cycles may vary from cardiac cycle to cardiac cycle because the length of diastole may vary from cardiac cycle to cardiac cycle. As shown in a diagnostic window has been identified that includes a starting point and an ending point for a cardiac cycle that follows cardiac cycle . As a result the diagnostic window will be longer or shorter than the diagnostic window in some instances because of differences in the length of diastole between cardiac cycle and cardiac cycle .

While examples of specific techniques for selecting a suitable diagnostic window have been described above it is understood that these are exemplary and that other techniques may be utilized. In that regard it is understood that the diagnostic window is determined using one or more techniques selected from identifying a feature of a waveform or other data feature and selecting a starting point relative to the identified feature e.g. before after or simultaneous with the feature identifying a feature of a waveform or other data feature and selecting an ending point relative to the identified feature e.g. before after or simultaneous with the feature identifying a feature of a waveform or other data feature and selecting a starting point and an ending point relative to the identified feature identifying a starting point and identifying an ending point based on the starting point and identifying an ending point and indentifying a starting point based on the ending point.

In some instances the starting point and or ending point of a maximum diagnostic window is identified using one or more of the techniques described above for example and then a portion of that maximum diagnostic window is selected for use in evaluating the pressure differential across a stenosis. For example in some embodiments the portion selected for use is a percentage of the maximum diagnostic window. In some particular embodiments the portion is between about 5 and about 99 of the maximum diagnostic window. Further in some instances the portion selected for use is a centered portion of the maximum diagnostic window. For example if the maximum diagnostic window was found to extend from 500 ms to 900 ms of a cardiac cycle and a centered portion comprising 50 of the maximum diagnostic window was to be utilized as the selected portion then the selected portion would correspond with the time from 600 ms to 800 ms of the cardiac cycle. In other instances the portion selected for use is an off centered portion of the maximum diagnostic window. For example if the maximum diagnostic window was found to extend from 500 ms to 900 ms of a cardiac cycle and an off centered portion comprising 25 of the maximum diagnostic window equally spaced from a mid point of the maximum window and an ending point of the maximum window was to be utilized as the selected portion then the selected portion would correspond with the time from 700 ms to 800 ms of the cardiac cycle. In some instances the diagnostic window is selected for each cardiac cycle such that the location and or size of the diagnostic window may vary from cycle to cycle. In that regard due to variances in the parameter s utilized to select the beginning end and or duration of the diagnostic window from cardiac cycle to cardiac cycle there is a corresponding variance in the diagnostic window in some instances.

Referring now to shown therein are aspects of calculating a pressure ratio across a stenosis according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In that regard shows a diagnostic window relative to proximal and distal pressure measurements while illustrates a temporal adjustment of the distal pressure measurement relative to the proximal pressure measurement.

Referring more specifically to shown therein is a graphical representation of a proximal pressure and a distal pressure over a cardiac cycle of a patient. In that regard a diagnostic window has been identified that includes a starting point and an ending point . The diagnostic window is suitable for evaluating the severity of a stenosis of the vessel without the need to use a hyperemic agent. In that regard the diagnostic window starting point and or ending point are calculated using one or more the techniques described above in some instances. As shown the proximal pressure includes a portion coinciding with the diagnostic window . The distal pressure includes a portion that coincides with the diagnostic window .

Referring now to for a variety of reasons the proximal pressure and distal pressure are not temporally aligned in some instances. For example during data acquisition there will often be a delay between the distal pressure measurement signals and the proximal pressure measurement signals due to hardware signal handling differences between the instrument s utilized to obtain the measurements. In that regard the differences can come from physical sources such as cable length and or varying electronics and or can be due to signal processing differences such as filtering techniques . In some embodiments the proximal pressure measurement signal is acquired by and routed through a hemodynamic monitoring system and may take significantly longer to reach the processing hardware or computing device compared to the distal pressure measurement signal that is sent more directly to the processing hardware or computing device. The resulting delay is between about 5 ms and about 150 ms in some instances. Because individual cardiac cycles may last between about 500 ms and about 1000 ms and the diagnostic window may be a small percentage of the total length of the cardiac cycle longer delays between the proximal and distal pressure measurement signals can have a significant impact on alignment of the pressure data for calculating a pressure differential for a desired diastolic window of a cardiac cycle.

As a result in some instances it is necessary to shift one of the proximal and distal pressures relative to the other of the distal and proximal pressures in order to temporally align the pressure measurements. In the illustrated embodiment of a portion of the distal pressure has been shifted to be temporally aligned with the portion of the proximal pressure coinciding with the diagnostic window . In that regard a portion of the distal pressure that has been shifted as indicated by arrow to be aligned with the portion of the proximal pressure . While illustrates a shift of only a portion of the distal pressure into alignment with the proximal pressure in other embodiments all or substantially all of the proximal and distal pressures are aligned before the portions corresponding to a selected diagnostic window are identified.

Alignment of all or portion s of the proximal and distal pressures is accomplished using a hardware approach in some instances. For example one or more hardware components are positioned within the communication path of the proximal pressure measurement the distal pressure measurement and or both to provide any necessary delays to temporally align the received pressure signals. In other instances alignment of all or portion s of the proximal and distal pressures is accomplished using a software approach. For example a cross correlation function or matching technique is utilized to align the cardiac cycles in some embodiments. In other embodiments the alignment is based on a particular identifiable feature of the cardiac cycle such as an ECG R wave or a pressure peak. Additionally in some embodiments alignment is performed by a software user where adjustments are made to the delay time of at least one of the proximal and distal pressures until the cardiac cycles are visually aligned to the user. A further technique for aligning the signals is to apply a synchronized timestamp at the point of signal acquisition. Further in some instances combinations of one or more of hardware software user and or time stamping approaches are utilized to align the signals.

Regardless of the manner of implementation several approaches are available for the aligning the proximal and distal pressure measurement signals. In some instances each individual distal pressure measurement cardiac cycle is individually shifted to match the corresponding proximal pressure measurement cardiac cycle. In other instances an average shift for a particular procedure is calculated at the beginning of the procedure and all subsequent cardiac cycles during the procedure are shifted by that amount. This technique requires little processing power for implementation after the initial shift is determined but can still provide a relatively accurate alignment of the signals over the course of a procedure because the majority of the signal delay is due to fixed sources that do not change from patient to patient or within the procedure. In yet other instances a new average shift is calculated each time that the proximal and distal pressure signals are normalized to one another during a procedure. In that regard one or more times during a procedure the sensing element utilized for monitoring pressure distal of the stenosis is positioned adjacent the sensing element utilized for monitoring pressure proximal of the stenosis such that both sensing elements should have the same pressure reading. If there is a difference between the pressure readings then the proximal and distal pressure signals are normalized to one another. As a result the subsequently obtained proximal and distal pressure measurements are more consistent with each other and therefore the resulting pressure ratio calculations are more accurate.

With the proximal and distal pressure measurements aligned the pressure ratio for the diagnostic window is calculated. In some instances the pressure ratio is calculated using average values for the proximal and distal pressure measurements across the diagnostic window. The pressure ratio calculations of the present disclosure are performed for a single cardiac cycle in some instances. In other instances the pressure ratio calculations are performed for multiple cardiac cycles. In that regard accuracy of the pressure ratio can be improved by performing the pressure ratio calculations over multiple cardiac cycles and averaging the values and or using an analysis technique to identify one or more of the calculated values that is believed to be most and or least accurate.

Referring now to shown therein is a graphical representation of proximal and distal pressure measurements within a vessel according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. In that regard the graphical representation includes a proximal pressure measurement waveform and a distal pressure measurement waveform . Generally the proximal pressure measurement waveform is representative of pressure measurements obtained proximal of a lesion or region of interest of a vessel and the distal pressure measurement waveform is representative of pressure measurements obtained distal of the lesion or region of interest of the vessel. The proximal pressure measurement waveform has a peak pressure at point and the distal pressure measurement waveform has a peak pressure at point . In that regard the peak pressures occur during systole of each heartbeat cycle at or around the systolic wave free period. In the illustrated embodiment there is a difference between the peak proximal pressure and the peak distal pressure . In some embodiments the difference is calculated as the peak proximal pressure minus the peak distal pressure . In other embodiments the difference is calculated as the peak distal pressure minus the peak proximal pressure .

In some instances this difference between the peak pressures is taken into account when calculating the ratio of the distal pressure to the proximal pressure during a selected diagnostic window using one or more of the techniques discussed above. In that regard the difference between the peak proximal pressure and the peak distal pressure is determined and then compensated for in making the pressure ratio calculation. For example in some embodiments the difference between the peak pressures is added to the distal pressure measurement during the diagnostic window such that the pressure ratio during the diagnostic window is calculated as P Peak Pressure Difference P. In one such embodiment the difference is calculated as the peak proximal pressure minus the peak distal pressure . In other embodiments the difference between the peak pressures is subtracted from the distal pressure measurement during the diagnostic window such that the pressure ratio during the diagnostic window is calculated as P Peak Pressure Difference P. In one such embodiment the difference is calculated as the peak distal pressure minus the peak proximal pressure .

In other instances a ratio of the peak proximal and distal pressures is calculated. The ratio of peak pressures can then be used as a scaling factor to adjust the pressure ratio calculations made during the diagnostic window. For example in one embodiment the peak pressure ratio is calculated by dividing the peak proximal pressure by the peak distal pressure. Then the standard pressure ratio calculated across a diagnostic window using one or more of the techniques described above can be scaled by multiplying the standard pressure ratio calculation by the ratio of peak pressures. In this manner the ratio of peak pressures can be used as a scaling factor for calculating the pressure ratio during the diagnostic window. Using either the peak pressure difference or the peak pressure ratio differences in pressure present during systole can be compensated for when calculating the pressure ratio during the diagnostic window used to evaluate the vessel. This compensation can be particularly useful in situations where the diagnostic window is selected to be during a wave free period in diastole following shortly after systole.

Referring now to shown therein are aspects of a technique for evaluating a vessel according to another embodiment of the present disclosure. In that regard the technique described below with respect to may be implemented using any of the diagnostic windows and associated techniques discussed above for evaluating a vessel using a pressure ratio across a lesion stenosis or region of interest. However as will be discussed in greater detail the technique associated with is not dependent upon the accuracy of the pressure measurements to evaluate the stenosis. Accordingly concerns about pressure transducer drift during a procedure are largely reduced or eliminated by this technique. Further the need to repeatedly calibrate or normalize the distal pressure measurement device to the proximal pressure measurement device during a procedure is likewise reduced or eliminated.

Referring initially to shown therein is a graphical representation illustrating aspects of the technique for evaluating a vessel according to the current embodiment of the present disclosure. As shown the graphical representation includes a graph and a graph . Graph illustrates a proximal pressure waveform and a distal pressure waveform of a patient over time. Graph in turn illustrates corresponding calculations based on those waveforms and . In that regard plot is representative of a pressure ratio of the distal pressure waveform relative to the proximal pressure waveform over time which in some embodiments is during a wave free period of the heartbeat cycle. Plot is representative of the pressure ratio calculation used in some of the vessel evaluation techniques described above. Plot is representative of a slope comparison between the distal pressure waveform and the proximal pressure waveform . In that regard the slope of the distal pressure waveform is compared to the slope of the proximal pressure waveform to provide an indication of the severity of a lesion or stenosis. In some instances a best fit regression slope is utilized. In that regard one or more of polynomial fitting multiple line regression estimation of the slope from points at either end of the waveforms and or other suitable fitting techniques are utilized. Further the fitting may be performed over a single heartbeat or over multiple heartbeat cycles. When the slope of the distal pressure waveform is equal to the slope of the proximal pressure waveform then the polyfit regression slope i.e. a slope obtained through polynomial curve fitting will be equal to 1.0 which is indicative of no lesion or stenosis. On the other hand as the slope of the distal pressure waveform diverges from the slope of the proximal pressure waveform then the polyfit regression slope move towards 0.0 which is indicative of a severe lesion or stenosis e.g. total occlusion or severe blockage . Accordingly the severity of the lesion or stenosis can be evaluated based on the polyfit regression slope. More specifically the closer the polyfit regression slope is to 1.0 the less severe the lesion stenosis and the closer the polyfit regression slope is to 0.0 the more severe the lesion stenosis. Similar to the 0.80 cutoff for pressure ratios discussed above a predetermined threshold value can be utilized for the regression slope comparison. For example in some instances the predetermined threshold value is between about 0.70 and about 0.90 with some particular embodiments using a threshold value of 0.75 0.80 0.85 or otherwise. In other instances the predetermined threshold value is less than 0.70 or greater than 0.90.

As noted above this slope based technique is not dependent upon the accuracy of the pressure measurements to evaluate the stenosis. In that regard illustrates this point. Shown therein is a graphical representation that includes a graph and a graph . Graph illustrates a proximal pressure waveform and a distal pressure waveform of a patient over time. In that regard proximal pressure waveform is the same as proximal pressure waveform of and distal pressure waveform is substantially the same as distal pressure waveform of but to illustrate the effects of transducer drift the distal pressure waveform has been increased by a constant value of 10 mmHg compared to distal pressure waveform . Graph illustrates corresponding calculations based on those waveforms and . In that regard plot is representative of a pressure ratio of the distal pressure waveform relative to the proximal pressure waveform over time. Notably the values of plot are substantially increased relative to the values of plot of . This illustrates one of the potential problems of an inaccurate and or non normalized distal pressure measurement in the context of the pressure ratio calculation. On the other hand plot is representative of a slope comparison between the distal pressure waveform and the proximal pressure waveform . As shown plot substantially matches plot of . This is because plots and are based upon the shape of the proximal and distal waveforms which are the same between . In that regard the distal pressure waveform has the same shape as distal pressure waveform it has simply been shifted upward by a value of 10 mmHg. As a result plots and based on the slopes of the waveforms are pressure value independent and therefore drift independent. It is understood that this waveform shape and or waveform slope based technique can be implemented using the waveforms from any of the diagnostic windows discussed above.

One advantage of the techniques of the present disclosure for identifying diagnostic windows and evaluating pressure differentials is the concept of beat matching . In that regard the proximal and distal waveforms for the same cardiac cycle are analyzed together with no averaging or individual calculations that span more than a single cardiac cycle. As a result interruptions in the cardiac cycle such as ectopic heartbeats equally affect the proximal and distal recordings. As a result these interruptions that can be detrimental to current FFR techniques have minor effect on the techniques of the present disclosure. Further in some embodiments of the present disclosure the effect of interruptions in the cardiac cycle and or other irregularities in the data is further minimized and or mitigated by monitoring the pressure differential calculations to detect these anomalies and automatically exclude the impacted cardiac cycles.

In one particular embodiment pressure ratio is calculated on two sequential cardiac cycles and the individual pressure ratio values are averaged. The pressure ratio of a third cycle is then calculated. The average value of the pressure ratios is compared to the average pressure ratio using three cycles. If the difference between the averages is below a predetermined threshold value then the calculated value is considered to be stable and no further calculations are performed. For example if a threshold value of 0.001 is used and adding an additional cardiac cycle changes the average pressure ratio value by less than 0.001 then the calculation is complete. However if the difference between the averages is above the predetermined threshold value then the pressure ratio for a fourth cycle is calculated and a comparison to the threshold value is performed. This process is repeated iteratively until the difference between the averages of cardiac cycle N and cardiac cycle N 1 is below the predetermined threshold value. As the pressure ratio value is typically expressed to two decimal places of precision such as 0.80 the threshold value for completing the analysis is typically selected to be small enough that adding a subsequent cardiac cycle will not change the pressure differential value. For example in some instances the threshold value is selected to be between about 0.0001 and about 0.05.

In some instances the level of confidence calculation has different thresholds depending on the degree of stenosis and or an initial calculated pressure ratio. In that regard pressure ratio analysis of a stenosis is typically based around a cutoff value s for making decisions as to what type of therapy if any to administer. Accordingly in some instances it is desirable to be more accurate around these cutoff points. In other words where the calculated pressure ratio values are close to a cut off a higher degree of confidence is required. For example if the cutoff for a treatment decision is at 0.80 and the initial calculated pressure ratio measurement is between about 0.75 and about 0.85 then a higher degree of confidence is needed than if the initial calculated pressure ratio measurement is 0.40 which is far from the 0.80 cutoff point. Accordingly in some instances the threshold value is at least partially determined by the initial calculated pressure ratio measurement. In some instances the level of confidence or stability of the calculated pressure ratio is visually indicated to user via a software interface. For example the color of the calculated pressure ratio may change as the confidence level increases e.g. fading from a darker color to a brighter color the user interface may include a confidence scale with a corresponding marker displayed for the particular calculation e.g. a sliding scale or a bullseye where an indicator of confidence moves closer to the bullseye as confidence increases the pressure ratio value may transition from a fuzzy or unclear display to a sharp clear display as confidence increase and or other suitable indicators for visually representing the amount of confidence or perceived preciseness of a measurement.

Because pressure ratio can be calculated based on a single cardiac cycle in accordance with the present disclosure a real time or live pressure ratio calculation can made while the distal pressure measuring device is moved through the vessel. Accordingly in some instances the system includes at least two modes a single cardiac cycle mode that facilitates pressure ratio calculations while moving the distal pressure measuring device through the vessel and a multi cardiac cycle mode that provides a more precise pressure ratio calculation at a discrete location. In one embodiment of such a system the software user interface is configured to provide the live pressure ratio value until the distal pressure measuring device is moved to the desired location and a measurement button is selected and or some other actuation step is taken to trigger the multi cardiac cycle mode calculation.

Persons skilled in the art will also recognize that the apparatus systems and methods described above can be modified in various ways. Accordingly persons of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the embodiments encompassed by the present disclosure are not limited to the particular exemplary embodiments described above. In that regard although illustrative embodiments have been shown and described a wide range of modification change and substitution is contemplated in the foregoing disclosure. It is understood that such variations may be made to the foregoing without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly it is appropriate that the appended claims be construed broadly and in a manner consistent with the present disclosure.

