---

title: Applying an action on a data item according to a classification and a data management policy
abstract: A classifier classifies data to identify a class of the data. Based on the identified class, at least one action to apply to the given data item is determined according to the data management policy, where the data management policy specifies a plurality of actions to apply for different classes of data items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08805779&OS=08805779&RS=08805779
owner: Longsand Limited
number: 08805779
owner_city: 
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20120814
---
A user can have multiple electronic devices such as a desktop computer notebook computer tablet computer smartphone and so forth. Each of the electronic devices associated with a user can be used to access data and make modifications to data such as word processing documents presentation documents and so forth. In some cases data of an electronic device can be backed up to a separate storage system for data protection or archived to the storage system to free up storage space at the electronic device.

It can be relatively difficult to manage data that exists on various electronic devices of a user. As an example the user can edit a document e.g. word processing document presentation document spreadsheet etc. on a first electronic device such as a desktop computer belonging to the user. Later the user may travel to a different location where the user does not have access to the desktop computer but the user may be carrying a mobile device such as a tablet computer smartphone or notebook computer. In some cases the latest version of the document that exists on a desktop computer may not be available to the user when the user is away from the desktop computer.

In an enterprise environment e.g. an environment of a business concern educational organization government agency etc. server systems can also be provided to perform data management such as to back up data archive data stub data apply a data retention policy apply a legal hold on data and so forth. Backing up data of an electronic device at a storage system associated with a server system can allow for later recovery of data should a fault occur at the electronic device that leads to data corruption or loss. Archiving data allows the data to be moved from an electronic device for storage in a separate location to reduce consumption of storage resources at the electronic device. Stubbing data refers to removing a data item from an electronic device to a separate location while leaving a link or stub that can be used to link to the data item at the separate location. The server system can apply a data retention policy to determine which data items to retain and which to delete. The server system can also apply a legal hold on data for legal reasons such as to satisfy discovery obligations in litigation. There can be other data management actions that can be applied on data such as understanding the confidentiality of data determining whether encryption should be applied determining whether data retention should be limited or whether expedited destruction should be applied. Other example data management actions include understanding the frequency at which data is generated to better forecast data growth and understanding related expenses relating to bandwidth and storage consumption.

As users increasingly adopt multiple electronic devices the management of data at the multiple electronic devices associated with a given user to allow ready access of data at any of the multiple electronic devices from any other electronic device in conjunction with performing various data management tasks at server systems can be challenging. In accordance with some implementations to provide robust data management in an environment where a relatively large number of users can each have multiple electronic devices e.g. desktop computers notebook computers tablet computers smartphones etc. multiple functional features can be integrated into each electronic device for managing data items at the corresponding electronic device. Examples of data items can include word processing documents presentation slides image files video files audio files and so forth.

The multiple functional features of an electronic device can provide at least some of the following synchronizing data items among electronic devices of a given user or group of users such as a family a department within an enterprise etc. where the multiple electronic devices of the user or group of users make up a private cloud of the user backing up data to a remote storage system archiving data to a remote storage system stubbing data applying a data retention policy with respect to the data applying a legal hold on data sharing the data of a first user with another user compressing data encrypting data and so forth. The multiple functional features associated with data management that are integrated into the electronic device allow for various data management actions any of the foregoing or any other action to be selectively applied to data items based on classification of the data items as discussed below. Note that making a decision to skip performing a data management action is also considered an action that can be selectively taken by the functional features of the electronic device.

In some implementations a classifier can also be included in an electronic device for classifying a data item. Classifying a data item includes identifying a type or class of a data item based on information associated with a data item. The classification of a data item can be used to determine a sensitivity level of the data item a confidentiality level of the data item and so forth which can be used to determine selected management action s to apply. In some examples the classification can be based on content in the data item. In other examples classification can be based on metadata associated with a data item such as the file name of the data item the file extension of the data item and so forth. In further implementations a data item can also be classified according to the type of electronic device e.g. desktop computer notebook computer tablet computer smartphone etc. where the data item resides or was created.

The electronic device can also maintain a predetermined data management policy. The data management policy can specify action s to be taken with respect to a data item based on the classification applied to the data item.

In accordance with some implementations an integrated data management mechanism or technique is implemented by providing various functional features such as those discussed above in each electronic device where selected actions can be applied by invoking any one or multiple of the functional features based on classification of each data item performed by the classifier and based on the data management policy maintained at the electronic device. In this manner data accessibility is improved e.g. a user can readily access a data item at any of the electronic devices in a private cloud or a user can easily share data with other users to perform collaboration and various data management functionalities offered by a data manager server system are also readily available. The server can be implemented as a server computer or a collection of server computers. The server is coupled to a storage system which can be implemented with a storage device or a collection of storage devices.

The electronic devices and can belong to the same user in this scenario the electronic devices and are part of a private cloud of the user. In other examples electronic devices and can belong to different users. Although reference is made to a private cloud of the user it is noted that techniques according to some implementations can also be applied in the context of a multi tenant public cloud which has multiple tenants that are able to access functionality of the public cloud or in the context of a hybrid cloud that includes both a private cloud and public cloud.

The electronic devices and can include similar components which are labeled with the same reference numerals in . The electronic device or can include a data manager which is to perform a policy driven action or actions with respect to a data item based on a classification applied by a classifier on the data item . The classification produces classification derived information which is used to drive the policy driven data management that is based on a data management policy maintained in the electronic device where the data management policy can be user specified.

The classifier classifies the data item into a selected one of multiple types or classes of the data item. Based on the classification various characteristics of the data item can be determined including a sensitivity level of the data item a confidentiality level of the data item a context associated with the data item and so forth. As examples the data item can be classified as being a confidential document a multimedia file such as a music file or video file an old document that has an age past a predefined age threshold a legal document that is subject to a legal hold policy a collaboration document that is to be collaborated among multiple users a document that is to be synchronized among multiple devices in a private cloud of a given user and so forth. The classification of the data item can also be based on the type of electronic device at which the data item resides or was created. Based on the classification applied on the data item the data manager can invoke at least one of multiple functional features that apply corresponding actions on the data item . Examples of various functional features are listed above. Note that plural ones of the functional features can be invoked to perform respective plural management actions with respect to the data item based on the classification of the data item. As another example note that a possible action that can be taken by the data manager based on the classification of the data item and the data management policy is a decision to skip the invocation of any of the functional features .

In a specific example if the classifier classifies the data item as being a data item that is to be synchronized in a private cloud the data manager can invoke a synchronization feature one of the functional features for synchronizing the data item among multiple electronic devices in the private cloud of the user. Synchronizing data among multiple electronic devices in the private cloud of a given user or group of users refers to maintaining synchronization of data items as they are being modified. A change in a first data item at a first electronic device in the private cloud can be communicated to the other electronic device s of the private cloud such that the change can also be applied to a version of the first data item that may be kept at the other electronic device s . Such synchronized data in the private cloud of the user is readily accessible by the user regardless of the electronic device the user is using or where the user is located.

As a further example based on the classification multiple management actions can be performed including data synchronization as well as any one or multiple of the following encrypt the data item because the data item was identified as being confidential notifying legal personnel to review the data item because the data item was identified as one that may be impacted by a litigation creating an audit trail based on the notification and so forth. Note that the notification and audit trail creation are examples of ancillary actions that are not applied on the data item but are performed in addition to actions on the data item.

As another example the data item can be classified as a music file. In this case the data management policy can specify that compression and encryption which can be provided by respective functional features are not to be applied to the music file. However a backup feature one of the functional features is invoked by the data manager to back up the music file to a remote storage system such as the storage system coupled to a server .

As a further example the data item may be classified as one that may be subject to potential copyright protection. In this example the management action specified can be a decision to avoid backup of the data item to avoid copyright violations. Additionally a notice s can be sent to a user and compliance personnel to indicate that certain material may be associated with copyright protection issues and an audit trail can be created that contains a record of the notice s .

As another example the classifier can classify the data item as being a data item that is to be archived such as in cases where the data item has an age that is greater than some predefined age threshold or where the data item satisfies another predefined archival criterion. In this case the data management policy can specify that the data item to be archived is to be removed from the electronic device and moved to the remote storage system for storage. Archiving can be performed in conjunction with stubbing where a link to the removed data item can be kept at the electronic device. The link can be used at the electronic device to access the data item at the remote storage system . From the perspective of a user of the electronic device it appears that the data item is still resident at the electronic device and can be accessed on demand.

Stubbing can also be employed in the context of data restoration. For example data determined to be most immediately useful to the user can be restored first while the rest of the data can be restored as stubs. A determination of what is immediately useful can be based on any one or combination of the following in some examples classification derived information frequency of use or recency of use.

Data corresponding to the stubs can be gradually restored in the background with the restored data replacing the corresponding stubs. This intelligent restoration approach can allow the user to get up and running more quickly by first providing the user immediate access to more important data with access to the remaining less important data provided with slight delay.

As another example the classifier can classify the data item as being of a type that is subject to a hold such as for legal reasons. In this case the data management policy can specify that such a data item that is subject to a legal hold is to be backed up to the storage system to prevent loss of this data item. Also metadata can be associated with the data item that is subject to the legal hold to prevent deletion of this data item.

As another example the classifier can classify the data item as being a collaborative data item in which case the data management policy can specify that the data item is to be shared with any electronic device of another user s .

Other examples relating to classification of the data item and corresponding action s to be taken based on the data management policy are also possible.

Note that the compress feature can apply compression on a data item that can selectively use any one of multiple compression approaches. For example a selected compression approach may be based on the data item s content and resource utilization goals e.g. processing resources used for compression should not exceed a target number of processors or a target processing time .

The extensible feature of the data manager can be used to add additional functional features to the data manager such as by use of plug in modules or by some other mechanism.

The electronic device of also includes a deduplication engine which can be used to apply deduplication of data. In performing deduplication the deduplication engine can identify a first portion of a data item that is already available at the storage system and a second portion of the data item that is not available at the storage system or at another location . As part of the deduplication the deduplication engine avoids sending the first portion since it is already available at the storage system or at another location but instead sends just the second portion to the server for storing at the storage system or at another location .

In some examples deduplication can be based on chunking a data item where the data item is divided into chunks. The deduplication engine can identify chunks of the data item that are already available at the storage system or at another location and thus can avoid sending such chunks again to the server . Instead the deduplication engine can send just chunks of the data item that are not already available at the storage system or at another location. In this way each chunk of a data item is stored just once. Note that common chunks can actually be shared among multiple data items deduplication would also cause such chunks that are shared among multiple data items to be stored just once at the storage system or at another location. In other implementations other deduplication techniques can be used.

In addition to the various data management functionalities in each electronic device the server can also include data management functionalities that can cooperate with or supplement the data management features of the electronic device.

The server of includes a data manager which can include similar functional features as the data manager in the electronic device . The server also includes a data management policy which can be user specified which specifies a policy to be applied by the data manager on a data item being processed by the server .

Scheduled jobs in the server refer to jobs relating to processing of data items in response to data provided by the electronic devices and to the server .

Note that data received from an electronic device can be partial data due to the duplication applied by the deduplication engine in the electronic device. As a result a delta application module is provided in the server to reproduce an original data item from partial data that is received from an electronic device . As an example an original data item at the electronic device may have ten chunks. Due to deduplication only 4 out of the 10 chunks may have been sent by the electronic device to the server for handling. The delta application module in the server can recreate the original data item from the 4 chunks by pulling the remaining 6 chunks from the storage system or from another location .

The recreated data item is then provided to a deep classifier in the server . The deep classifier can apply a deeper classification on the recreated data item than applied by the classifier at an electronic device. For example the classifier at an electronic device may apply classification of a data item based on metadata of the data item and based on a portion of content in the data item. The deep classifier can apply further classification based on the entirety of the content of the data item as well as the metadata associated with the data item . Performing deep classification at the server allows data management techniques according to some implementations to leverage greater processing resources available at the server while reducing processing resource consumption at client devices. Note that the processing resources of the server are more scalable than processing resources at the client devices since additional processing resources can be dynamically added to the server on demand in some examples. Performing the deep classification at the server also allows for re processing of data already collected that the user has chosen to not classify or after newer or better classifiers or classification rules are made available in other words the classification technique has been updated .

Based on the classification applied by the deep classifier on a data item the data manager can perform a policy driven action according to the data management policy at the server which can include actions such as compression encryption archiving stubbing holding synchronization sharing deletion notification auditing other ancillary actions that go beyond actions on the data item and so forth.

To the extent that the action performed by the data manager involves storing data to or retrieving data from the storage system the data manager is able to communicate such data with the storage system . Also for purposes of synchronization the data manager can cause a data item received from a first electronic device to be communicated to one or multiple other electronic devices.

The server also includes a classification enriched search engine which can perform a search for data in the storage system or in another location such as any of the electronic devices and . The classification enriched search engine is able to use classification information provided by the deep classifier to find data items in the storage system and or other storage locations that satisfy search criteria in a search request and that are related to a particular class or classes identified by the classifier . For example the classification enriched search engine can find data items for which a legal hold applies and which satisfy a search criterion or search criteria in a search request. As a further example the classification enriched search engine can perform searching for the purpose of understanding data growth and to provide the ability to manage relatively large amounts of data for efficient but accurate global actions such as authorization of the deletion of data that is deemed eligible for deletion using heat maps and other cluster based visualizations of data.

The server also includes an outflow module which provides a query interface such as an application programming interface to allow interaction between the classification enriched search engine and a discovery tool . The discovery tool can be used to manage data items for litigation such as data items that are responsive to litigation related document requests for production or data items specified by court order or rules. The outflow module can restore a specific version of a data item from the storage system can apply a delta operation to recreate a full data item from partial data due to deduplication and so forth. The discovery tool can view classify apply legal hold by copying or perform other tasks with respect to retrieved data items. This can allow third party access of the retrieved data items in some examples.

As further depicted in the storage system can include a storage abstraction layer to abstract an interface that is presented to the server . In addition the storage system can include a near term storage medium implemented with one or multiple storage devices and a long term storage medium implemented with one or multiple storage devices . Generally the storage device s of the near term storage medium can be more expensive and have higher performance with respect to one or multiple performance metrics than the storage device s of the long term storage medium .

In some examples the near term storage medium can be used to store the following types of data items data items synchronized in a private cloud such as different versions of each such synchronized data item data items to be shared among users such as different versions of each such shared data item backed up data items and so forth. The long term storage medium can be used to store archived data items for example.

The storage system can also store metadata associated with the data items handled by the server . For example the metadata can include indications of classifications of each corresponding data item information specifying that a legal hold is to be applied to a corresponding data item and so forth.

The deep classifier in the server then applies at deep classification on the recreated data item to identify a class of the recreated data item. Based on the classification the data manager in the server determines at at least one action to apply to the recreated data item according to the data management policy in the server. The action s can include various actions similar to those in the electronic device except that the selected action in the server is based on the deep classification.

The processor s can be coupled to a network interface to allow the system to perform communications over a data network and a storage medium or storage media .

The storage medium or storage media can be implemented as one or multiple computer readable or machine readable storage media. The storage media include different forms of memory including semiconductor memory devices such as dynamic or static random access memories DRAMs or SRAMs erasable and programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable and programmable read only memories EEPROMs and flash memories magnetic disks such as fixed floppy and removable disks other magnetic media including tape optical media such as compact disks CDs or digital video disks DVDs or other types of storage devices. Note that the instructions discussed above can be provided on one computer readable or machine readable storage medium or alternatively can be provided on multiple computer readable or machine readable storage media distributed in a large system having possibly plural nodes. Such computer readable or machine readable storage medium or media is are considered to be part of an article or article of manufacture . An article or article of manufacture can refer to any manufactured single component or multiple components. The storage medium or media can be located either in the machine running the machine readable instructions or located at a remote site from which machine readable instructions can be downloaded over a network for execution.

In the foregoing description numerous details are set forth to provide an understanding of the subject disclosed herein. However implementations may be practiced without some or all of these details. Other implementations may include modifications and variations from the details discussed above. It is intended that the appended claims cover such modifications and variations.

