---

title: Selective suppression of access probe transmission in response to external impact event
abstract: A method and system for managing access probe transmission in a wireless communication system. Upon determining that an external impact event, such as a severe weather event, natural disaster, criminal activity, has occurred, base stations may wirelessly broadcast a control signal that causes certain wireless communication devices served by the base stations to suppress transmission of access probes, while allowing other wireless communication devices served by the base stations to still transmit access probes. In a given coverage area, suppression of access probe transmission by one or more wireless communication devices may thereby free up access channel capacity to facilitate calls or other communications by other wireless communication devices, such as first-responder devices for instance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08606219&OS=08606219&RS=08606219
owner: Sprint Spectrum L.P.
number: 08606219
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120510
---
Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

In a typical wireless communication system a radio access network RAN includes one or more base stations that radiate to define one or more wireless coverage areas such as cells and cell sectors in which suitably equipped wireless communication devices WCDs can operate. In practice the RAN and its served WCDs may be arranged to communicate with each other according to an agreed air interface protocol that defines a mechanism for use of communication resources to support wireless exchange of voice data multimedia and or other content. Examples of such protocols include CDMA e.g. 1xRTT or 1xEV DO WiMAX LTE IDEN GSM WIFI HSDPA among others now known or later developed.

The air interface in each coverage area between the RAN and its served WCDs may define a forward link or downlink for carrying communications from the RAN to the WCDs and a reverse link or uplink for carrying communications from the WCDs to the RAN. In various implementations these links may be defined on or more carrier frequencies or blocks of frequencies. Furthermore on each link various channels may be defined through techniques such as time division multiplexing code division multiplexing frequency division multiplexing and the like.

By way of example the forward link may define a pilot channel for carrying a pilot signal usable by WCDs to detect and evaluate coverage a paging channel for carrying page messages to particular WCDs other overhead channels for carrying system parameter information and the like and a number of traffic channels for carrying carry bearer traffic e.g. call traffic to WCDs. The reverse link on the other hand may define an access channel for carrying messages from WCDs to facilitate registration responding to pages originating calls and the like and a number of traffic channels for carrying bearer traffic from WCDs to the RAN. Depending on the protocol the channel definitions may differ and other names for the channels may be used.

In practice the reverse link access channel may define a number of containers such as timeslots or resource elements for carrying access channel messages from WCDs to the RAN. WCDs may then be arranged to transmit access channel messages called access probes in these containers. For instance when a WCD first enters into wireless coverage and at other times the WCD may transmit a radio access registration message in an access probe to the RAN to notify the RAN where the WCD is located. Further when the WCD seeks to originate a call e.g. a voice call and or data session the WCD may transmit an origination message in an access probe to the RAN to trigger setup of the call. Further still when a WCD receives a page message from the RAN on the forward link paging channel the WCD may transmit a page response message in an access probe to the RAN. Moreover the WCD may be arranged to transmit certain user data such as short message service SMS messages as data bursts in access probes to the RAN to avoid the need to set up an air interface traffic channel for such communication.

In some situations the reverse link air interface can become overwhelmed if too many WCDs seek to send access probes at once. In particular if access probes from two or more WCDs line up by chance in the same access channel container such as the same timeslot an access probe collision may occur. The result of such a collision may be that the RAN will not receive any of the access probes in that container in a comprehensible form due to interference between the access probes. Consequently each WCD may have to re transmit its access probe.

Particularly in situations where many users are placing calls at once the number of access probes and access probe collisions can increase exponentially or at least greatly . For example after a football game or in an emergency situation many people within a given coverage area may use their mobile phones to place calls e.g. to call 911 to call friends and family to check voice mail or for other purposes . Each time a WCD attempts to place a call as noted above the WCD may send at least one access probe. Consequently in a situation where many people within a given coverage area place calls at once many access probes may be sent at essentially the same time. As a result many access probe collisions may occur and so still more access probes transmissions re transmissions may occur. Further at the same time WCDs may be periodically registering with the system and responding to page messages and the like which may additionally increase the number of access probe collisions and thus further overwhelm the access channel. Ultimately this may result in delayed call setup and blocked calls which may translate into unacceptable user experience.

Considering this disclosed herein is a method and system for helping to manage access probe transmissions particularly in a scenario where an event has occurred that is likely to result in high loading on the access channel. The method assumes that in such a scenario there may be certain WCDs and or applications running on WCDs that should receive preferred treatment such as a guarantee or greater likelihood of being able to place calls without delay or blocking. For example a wireless service provider may have a policy to provide preferential service to WCDs that are operated by emergency service personnel and or applications such as push to talk and the like that tend to be used for emergency response management. Likewise a wireless service provider may have a policy to provide preferential service to WCDs that operate under high class service agreements or the like.

In accordance with the method when such an event occurs the RAN may cause one or more WCDs to suppress transmission of access probes generally or for particular communication applications but may allow transmission of access probes by one or more other WCDs and or for one or more other communication applications. Optimally for instance the RAN may define a silent period and cause a proper subset of the WCDs being served by the one or more base stations to suppress transmission of access probes for the duration of that silent period either generally or for particular applications thus freeing up the access channel during that silent period for use to carry access probes from other WCDs and or for other applications.

In particular disclosed in one respect is a method of managing transmission of access probes in a wireless communication system. The method may involve a processing unit determining that an external impact event has occurred such as by receiving into the processing unit an alert that indicates occurrence of the external impact event. The external impact event may be an event that does not involve operation of the wireless communication system but that is likely to result in significant loading of the wireless communication system. Examples of such events include a severe weather event a natural disaster a chemical or nuclear disaster a terrorist attack or other criminal activity and a crowd gathering event such as the ending of a sports event concert or demonstration where many users may be likely to place calls at about the same time.

In response to determining that the external impact event occurred the method may then involve wirelessly broadcasting from one or more base stations of the wireless communication system a control signal e.g. one or more signals that causes a proper subset of wireless communication devices served by the one or more base stations to suppress wireless transmission of access probes to the wireless communication system while allowing other wireless communication devices served by the one or more base stations to wirelessly transmit access probes to the wireless communication system. For example each of the one or more base stations may broadcast a suppression signal that one or more WCDs served by the base station is arranged to respond to by suppressing transmission of access probes for a period of time but that one or more high priority WCDs served by the base station would be arranged to disregard or to not respond to and would thus not suppress transmission of access probes for that period of time. Consequently the method may help to ensure sufficient access channel capacity for transmission of access probes by the one or more high priority WCDs for at least the period of time that one or more other WCDs are suppressing access probe transmission.

Further in another respect disclosed is a method of managing transmission of access probes in a wireless communication system where a wireless communication device that is served by the wireless communication system is programmed with various communication applications that are each executable to cause the wireless communication device to send access probes to the wireless communication system e.g. by triggering placement of calls or the like . The disclosed method may involve a processing unit determining that an external impact event has occurred. In turn the method may then involve responsive to determining that the external impact event has occurred wirelessly broadcasting from a base station of the wireless communication system a control signal that causes the wireless communication device to suppress wireless transmission of access probes for communications by just a proper subset of the applications while allowing wireless transmission of access probes to the wireless communication system for communications by one or more other applications.

Still further disclosed is a communication system that includes a processing unit and one or more base stations having antennas that radiate to define wireless coverage areas in which to serve wireless communication devices. In the communication system the processing unit may be arranged to receive an alert indicating occurrence of an external impact event that does not involve operation of the wireless communication system. Further the processing unit may be arranged to respond to receiving the alert and to the alert indicating occurrence of the external impact event by causing the one or more base stations to wirelessly broadcast a control signal that causes a proper subset of the wireless communication devices to suppress wireless transmission of access probes to the wireless communication system while allowing one or more other wireless communication devices served by the one or more base stations to wirelessly transmit access probes to the wireless communication system.

These as well as other aspects advantages and alternatives will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description with reference where appropriate to the accompanying drawings. Further it should be understood that the description provided in this overview section and elsewhere in this document is provided by way of example only.

Referring to the drawings as noted above is a simplified block diagram depicting a wireless communication system in connection with which the present method can be implemented. It should be understood however that this and other arrangements described herein are set forth as examples only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and that some elements may be omitted altogether. Further many of the elements described herein are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components and in any suitable combination and location. Various functions described herein as being performed by one or more entities may be carried out by hardware firmware and or software. For instance various functions may be carried out by a processor executing instructions stored in memory.

Shown sitting as a node on core network is a home location register HLR which functions to maintain a home profile record of each WCD that subscribes to service with the wireless carrier in a particular region. In general for each such WCD the HLR may store a subscriber profile record as well as an indication of where in the RAN the WCD is currently operating such as which base station switch or other node is currently serving the WCD to facilitate setup of communications to the WCD. In practice when a WCD powers on or moves into a new coverage area e.g. a new paging zone or tracking area the WCD may scan for and detect a pilot signal broadcast by a base station of the RAN and may then transmit a registration message in an access probe to that base station which may trigger signaling to the HLR to update the WCD s current location. Further as noted above a WCD may periodically re register in a similar manner with the RAN which may function to confirm or update the record of its location.

When a WCD is located in the coverage area of given base station the WCD may be served by the base station in an idle mode or an active mode. When a WCD is not actively engaged in a call and air interface traffic channel resources are thus not assigned for use by the WCD the WCD is considered to be operating in an idle mode. In that mode the WCD may regularly monitor an air interface paging channel for any page messages addressed to the WCD such as a page message seeking to set up a call to the WCD or page message providing SMS text to the WCD for instance. Upon receipt of such a page message as noted above the WCD may then transmit a page response message in an access probe to the base station.

When an idle WCD seeks to originate a call or receives a page message seeking to set up a call to the WCD as noted above the WCD may transmit an origination message or a response in an access probe to the base station. In response the RAN may then assign air interface traffic channel resources for the call and may allow the call to proceed thereby transitioning the WCD to an active mode. In some implementations threshold long pauses in traffic channel communication to or from an active WCD may cause the RAN to release the assigned traffic channel resources thereby returning the WCD to an idle mode technically a dormant mode with respect to the air interface. When the paused traffic channel communication is to resume the WCD may then again transmit another origination message in an access probe to the base station to request re assignment of traffic channel resources and the RAN may accordingly assign traffic channel resources thus transitioning the WCD back to the active mode.

As noted above the access channel may be define containers for carrying access probes transmitted from WCDs to the base station and the WCDs may thus be arranged to transmit access probes in those containers. In particular in a typical implementation when a WCD seeks to transmit an access probe to the RAN the WCD may randomly select one of the containers of the access channel and transmit the access probe in that container. The RAN may then be arranged to monitor the individual containers of the access channel for any access probes transmitted from served WCDs.

Returning now to also shown sitting as a node on the core network is a server which may function to determine when an external impact event has occurred to responsively determine which one or more base stations serve the likely to be impacted area and to arrange for the determined base station s to broadcast a control signal that causes just a proper subset of WCDs served by the determined base station s to suppress access probe transmission. is a simplified block diagram of such server showing some of the components that the server may contain by way of example.

As shown in the representative server may include a network communication interface a processing unit and non transitory data storage all of which may be coupled together by a system bus network or other connection mechanism .

With this arrangement network communication interface functions to connect server with core network and allow the server to engage in communication via the core network with various other entities such as with various alert providers situated on transport network s to receive indications of alerts and controller to facilitate causing base stations to broadcast the presently contemplated control signal to cause one or more WCDs to suppress access probe transmission. Processing unit may then comprise one or more general purpose processors e.g. microprocessors and or one or more special purpose processors e.g. application specific integrated circuits . And data storage may comprise one or more volatile and or non volatile storage components such as magnetic optical or flash storage and may be integrated in whole or in part with processing unit .

As shown data storage may contain program instructions and reference data . Program instructions may be executable by processing unit to carry out various functions described herein. Reference data may then comprise various data usable by the processing unit to carry out the functions described. For instance the reference data may include mapping data that indicates where particular base stations and base station coverage areas are located so as to enabler the processing unit to decide which base stations should broadcast the control signal in accordance with the present method upon determining that an external impact event likely to affect a particular area has occurred.

Note that in an alternative arrangement the processing unit and or functions of the processing unit could be provided elsewhere in the system of or could be distributed among various entities in the system. By way of example the processing unit and corresponding functions could be provided at HLR at controller in one or more of the base stations or elsewhere.

Turning again back to shown sitting as a node on transport network s e.g. on the Internet is an example alert provider such as a server or other system that is arranged to generate and or provide alerts regarding external impact events. Depending on the type of external impact event the alert provider may take various forms and or operate in various ways. By way of example for weather emergencies the alert provider may be a server operated by the National Weather Service which may broadcast or otherwise provide alert messages regarding the occurrence of severe weather situations specifying in each such message a level of significance of the alert and the affected location area s . As another example for terrorist attacks or other criminal activities the alert provider may be a law enforcement entity which may broadcast alert messages regarding the occurrence of the criminal activity similarly specifying a level of significance and the affected location area s . Such alerts may be set forth in text format in predefined message fields so that a recipient entity such as server can automatically parse the alert to determine that the external impact event is threshold significant and to determine the affected area s .

In some implementations the alert provider may provide an alert about an external impact event in essentially real time in response to the event having just recently occurred. For instance if a severe weather emergency or terrorist attack occurs the alert provider may respond to the occurrence of that event by providing the alert. Server may thus receive the alert and promptly take action in accordance with the present method.

Alternatively the alert provider may provide an alert in advance of the external impact event specifying in the alert when the event is scheduled to occur. In that case the server may receive the alert and programmatically schedule itself to take action in accordance with the present method at the indicated time. For example the alert provider may have information indicating the time of day when a sporting event concert or demonstration is scheduled to end and may provide that timing information along with a specification of the location of the event in an alert to server . Server may then responsively program itself to take action in accordance with the present method at the indicated time with respect to one or more base stations serving the indicated location.

Referring next to a block diagram of an example WCD is shown to help illustrate how such a device might operate in an example implementation of the method. As shown in the WCD includes a user interface a wireless communication interface a host processor and non transitory data storage all of which may be coupled together by a system bus network or other communication mechanism .

In this arrangement user interface may function to facilitate user interaction with the WCD if appropriate. As such the user interface may comprise input components such as a keypad microphone and touch sensitive screen or pad and output components such as a display screen and loudspeaker.

Wireless communication interface may then function to enable the WCD to communicate over air interface with one or more base stations in accordance with an agreed air interface protocol such as one of those noted above for instance. As such the wireless communication interface may comprise one or more antennas as well as a chipset arranged to communicate according to one or more particular air interface protocols. Such a chipset may include logic for generating and transmitting access probes on the access channel in response to various triggers arising internally on the chipset and or communicated to the chipset from the host processor . For example the chipset may itself be arranged to periodically generate and transmit a registration message in an access probe to the RAN and to perhaps to automatically respond to certain page messages received from the RAN. Further the chipset may receive from the host processor various signals triggering transmission of access probes such as when one or more applications running on the WCD seek to originate calls for instance.

Host processor may then comprise one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors and may be integrated in whole or in part with wireless communication interface . And data storage may comprise one or more volatile and or non volatile storage components such as magnetic optical or flash storage and may be integrated in whole or in part with host processor .

As shown data storage may contain an operating system and one or more applications any or all of which could alternatively be integrated with the operating system all of which may define program instructions executable by the host processor to carry out various WCD functions described herein. In a conventional manner the operating system may define an application programming interface API through which the various applications may interact with low level components of the device such as the user interface and wireless communication interface . For example various applications may be arranged to initiate calls e.g. voice calls or data communication sessions by placing particular API calls that may cause the host processor to signal to the wireless communication interface which may in turn cause the wireless communication interface to generate and transmit a call origination message in an access probe to the RAN. Likewise various applications may be arranged to present information on the user interface by appropriate placing API calls. Other examples are possible as well.

The applications may include various communication applications each of which may have a respective application ID and or an application type. One such application for instance may be a PSTN voice calling application which may allow a user to place and receive legacy voice calls. Another such application may be an e mail application. Still another such application may be an SMS application. And yet another such application may be a push to talk application that allows a user to engage in instant connect establishment of packet based real time media communication sessions. Other examples are possible as well.

As further shown in data storage of the example WCD also contains a set of application priority data . This data may specify respectively for each application by application ID and or type a priority level of the application differentiating the applications as having different priority levels or levels of preference. These priority levels may be established specifically for purposes of the present method and or for other purposes. By way of example if emergency service personnel tend to use push to talk for voice communication it may be appropriate to assign a high level of priority to any push to talk application on the WCD. Whereas if typical consumers tend to use a PSTN calling for voice communication it may be appropriate to assign a low level of priority to any PSTN calling application on the WCD. Similar distinctions could be drawn for other applications or application types as well. Further there could be multiple levels of priority beyond just high and low for instance.

Still further as also shown data storage and or wireless communication interface may include WCD priority data . This data may specify a priority or preference level of the WCD such as a level of service or preference established in accordance with a service level agreement or pursuant to government regulations for instance. As with the application priority data this WCD priority data could be established specifically for purposes of the present method and or for other purposes. By way of example WCDs used by law enforcement personnel emergency service personnel government personnel or the like or by users who subscribe to receive preferential service could be assigned a relatively high level of priority and thus be served by the wireless carrier under a relatively high priority service level whereas WCDs used by others such as by normal service level subscribers could be assigned a normal or relatively low level of priority and thus be served by the wireless carrier under a relatively low priority service level.

In accordance with the method the WCD may be arranged to carry out various WCD functions described herein in various ways. For instance the WCD may carry out these functions through operation of the host processor executing program instructions that are part of the operating system part of one or more applications specially provided for purposes of the present method for instance and or otherwise provided. For instance when the wireless communication interface receives a control signal from a serving base station in accordance with the method the wireless communication interface may signal to the host processor and the host processor may take action to suppress access probe transmission if and to the extent appropriate. Alternatively or additionally the WCD may carry out these functions through operation of the wireless communication interface . For instance when the wireless communication interface receive a control signal from a serving base station in accordance with the method the wireless communication interface may itself take action to suppress access probe transmission if and to the extent appropriate.

As shown in at block the method may involve determining at a processing unit that an external impact event has occurred. In line with the discussion above for instance processing unit of server could determine that the external impact event has occurred rightly or wrongly by receiving from alert provider an alert generated and provided in response to the occurrence of the event. Alternatively processing unit could receive an indication of when the event is scheduled to occur and the act of determining that the event occurred may involve determining when that predetermined time comes possibly receiving an internally generated alert indicating occurrence of the external impact event. Determining that the external impact event has occurred may further include determining based on significance data provided in the alert for instance that the external impact event is significant enough to warrant suppressing certain access probe transmission as a condition to proceeding with the method.

In practice an alert message or other indication of occurrence of the external impact event may specify a location of the occurrence of the external impact event such as a geographic definition of a polygon defining the area at issue. In that case the method may then further comprise the processing unit or other entity reading the message to determine the specified location using the mapping data discussed above as a basis to select one or more base stations of the carrier s multiple base stations for instance based on their proximity to the determined location such base stations that provide coverage within the determined location. Further the method may involve the processing unit then causing the selected base station s to wirelessly broadcast the control signal.

At block in response to determining that the external impact event has occurred the method may then involve wirelessly broadcasting from one or more base stations of the wireless communication system a control signal that causes a proper subset of wireless communication devices served by the one or more base stations to suppress wireless transmission of access probes to the wireless communication system while allowing one or more other wireless communication devices served by the one or more base stations to wirelessly transmit access probes to the wireless communication system.

In the example implementation this responsive broadcasting of the control signal may arise by the processing unit signaling to controller possibly informing controller which base station s should broadcast the control signal and then controller causing the subject base station s to broadcast the control signal. For instance the controller may send the signal to the base station s with a directive for the base station s to wirelessly broadcast the signal. Alternatively the process may take other forms.

The act of wirelessly broadcasting the control signal may itself also take various forms. For instance each base station may broadcast the control signal by transmitting the signal on a forward link paging channel in a reserved sub channel or field for instance. Further such broadcasting could occur repeatedly. All WCDs in the coverage area receiving that paging channel or at least the proper subset of the WCDs served by the one or more base stations may then monitor and detect the control signal as provided on the paging channel. Alternatively if a mechanism exists to identify the specific WCDs in coverage of the base station the base station could broadcast the control signal essentially by unicasting it to each such WCD. Furthermore the broadcasting may involve providing the control signal directly or providing a trigger that causes each recipient WCD to download or otherwise obtain the control signal. Other examples are possible as well.

Optimally the proper subset of WCDs served by the one or more base stations may be those WCDs that have are served under a normal or relatively low priority service level so that those devices would suppress access probe transmission whereas the other WCDs served by the one or more base stations may be those that are served under a higher priority service level so those other devices would not suppress access probe transmissions.

In practice when each WCD receives the control signal broadcast by the one or more base stations the WCD may determine based on its priority level whether it should take action to suppress access probe transmission. Alternatively just the low priority WCDs may be arranged to take action in response to the control signal and the high priority WCDs may include no such logic and may therefore disregard the control signal and thus not take action in response. For example in advance of broadcasting the control signal the method may further involve provisioning the proper subset of WCDs with logic e.g. program logic and or the above noted WCD priority data that causes the proper subset of wireless communication devices to respond to the control signal by suppressing transmission of access probes to the wireless communication system. Whereas the other WCDs might not be so provisioned.

The act of a given WCD suppressing transmission of access probes may involve the WCD transitioning to a mode in which the WCD would block its transmission of access probes. In that mode when a trigger would normally cause the WCD to transmit an access probe the WCD may not transmit the access probe and may perhaps hold the probe or delay transmitting the probe until a later time when access probe transmission is no longer suppressed. Thus for instance in such a mode if the WCD would normally transmit a registration request and or call origination request in an access probe the WCD will delay or cancel such transmission.

Optimally while the proper subset of WCDs is suppressing transmission of access probes the one or more other served WCDs may still transmit access probes. Thus by way of example if an first responder device needs to place a call and was essentially blocked from doing so as a result of excessive access channel use the control signal sent according to the present method may cause the proper subset of WCDs to suppress their access probe transmission and the first responder device may then be able to successfully place the call.

In practice the control signal transmitted by the one or more base stations may specify a silent period throughout which the proper subset of WCDs should suppress transmission of access probes to the wireless communication system. Each WCD of the proper subset may thus respond to receipt of the control signal by suppressing transmission of access probes to the wireless communication system throughout that specified silent period reverting to no longer apply such suppression upon expiration of the period. Optimally such a silent period may thus provide a time for the other WCDs to transmit access probes to the wireless communication system while the proper subset of wireless communication devices are suppressed from transmitting access probes to the wireless communication system.

Furthermore the control signal may specify not only a length of the silent period but also a frequency of repeating the silent period possibly along with a delay interval between each repeated instance. In response to such a control signal each recipient WCD of the proper subset may thus suppress transmission of access probes throughout the duration of each repeated instance of the specified silent period thus freeing up additional access channel capacity for use by the one or more other WCDs.

At block the method may then involve a processing unit determining that an external impact event has occurred as discussed above and further determining a base station that provides coverage in the affected area. In turn at block the method may then involve in response wirelessly broadcasting from a base station of the wireless communication system a control signal that causes the WCD to suppress wireless transmission of access probes for communications by just a proper subset of the applications i.e. one or more applications while allowing wireless transmission of access probes to the wireless communication system for communications by one or more other applications.

In practice the WCD may respond to the control signal in this example by making use of the application priority data discussed above. For instance the host processor may respond to the control signal by setting the WCD to operate in a mode in which the host processor blocks requests from any low priority applications that would cause wireless communication interface to transmit access probes but the host process still allows requests by any high priority applications that would cause the wireless communication interface to transmit access probes. As a specific example the result of this process may be that the WCD prevents call origination by any PSTN calling applications and messaging any SMS applications but allows call origination by push to talk applications. This result may be commercially useful as first responder devices might be more likely than certain other devices to use push to talk applications.

Similar to the WCD priority implementation above the WCD in the present example may be provisioned in advance with suppression logic that causes the WCD to respond to the control signal by transitioning to a mode in which the WCD blocks access attempts by each application of a relatively high service priority level but allows access attempts by each application of a relatively low service priority level. Further as with the implementation above the control signal may specify a silent period and perhaps a frequency of repeating the silent period and the suppression of access probe transmission for communications by the proper subset of applications may occur in accordance with that specification.

Exemplary embodiments have been described above. It should be understood however that variations from these embodiments are possible while remaining within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

