---

title: Indicating the progress of a boot sequence on a communication device
abstract: Disclosed is a method of indicating the progress of a boot sequence on a communication device, the method comprising initiating the boot sequence; receiving input at the communication device during the boot sequence; and, in response to receiving input, outputting a progress indicator indicating the progress of the boot sequence.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08937556&OS=08937556&RS=08937556
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08937556
owner_city: Waterloo,  Ontario
owner_country: unknown
publication_date: 20120622
---
The present matter relates to communication devices and in particular to methods and systems for indicating the progress of a boot sequence on a communication device.

Communication device such as mobile devices cell phones tablets or smart phones typically have boot sequences that are executed when the power to the communication device is switched on or when the battery is connected to the communication device. Often non essential applications or processes are operating during the boot sequence. Such applications or processes consume resources from the communication device and as a consequence can slow down the boot sequence.

In accordance with an aspect described is a method of indicating the progress of a boot sequence on a communication device the method comprising initiating the boot sequence receiving input at the communication device during the boot sequence and in response to receiving input outputting a progress indicator indicating the progress of the boot sequence.

In accordance with a further aspect described is a communication device comprising a memory storing boot sequence instructions an input interface a processor coupled to the input interface to receive input and coupled to memory to execute the boot sequence instructions to configure the processor to receive input at the input interface and in response to receiving input output a progress indicator indicating the progress of the boot sequence.

In accordance with a further aspect described is a computer readable storage medium comprising computer executable instructions which when executed cause a processor to receive input and in response to receiving input output a progress indicator indicating the progress of the boot sequence.

An exemplary communication device is shown in . The communication device has an activation button and a display with a front surface . The activation button can be pressed to activate a selection on an interface on the display and may also be operable to move a cursor around the interface on the display . The interface can be a graphical user interface. It is understood that other types of input mechanisms can be used in additional to or as an alternative to the activation button such as a trackball or a touchpad. In one or more embodiments the activation button is operable to initiate or to provide power to the communication device . For example if the communication device is powered off and the activation button receives input e.g. it is pressed a boot up sequence is initiated in the communication device to initiate the operating system. In a further embodiment there is a separate power button located on the communication device which when selected turns on or powers on the communication device . It is understood that there may be other ways to turn on a communication device such as by pressing and holding one or more buttons on the communication device simultaneously for a predetermined period of time. There may be one or more additional buttons or input components on or associated with the communication device that are not shown in the illustrations.

Referring to a typical communication device is illustrated in greater detail. The communication device is often a two way communication device having both voice and data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other computer systems. Depending on the functionality provided by the communication device it may be referred to as a data messaging device a two way pager a cellular telephone with data messaging capabilities a wireless Internet appliance a smartphone a table computer or a data communication device for example.

The communication device includes a processor which controls general operation of the communication device . The processor can interact with additional device subsystems such as a display a flash memory a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems such as a keyboard or trackball for example a data port a speaker a microphone a short range communication module such as Bluetooth for example and any other device subsystems or peripheral devices generally designated at . The processor interacts with other device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident on device functions.

The communication device includes a communication subsystem which includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more embedded or internal antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . As will be apparent to those skilled in field of communications the particular design of the communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the communication device is intended to operate.

Operating system software used by the processor may be stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which may be a ROM a ROM or similar storage element not shown . The operating system specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as RAM .

The processor in addition to its operating system functions enables execution of software applications on the communication device . A predetermined set of applications which control basic device operations is installed on the communication device during its manufacture. These basic operations typically include data and voice communication applications for example. Additionally applications may also be loaded onto the communication device through the network an auxiliary I O subsystem data port short range communication module or any other suitable subsystem and installed by a user in RAM ROM or flash memory for execution by the processor . Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the communication device and may provide enhanced on device features communication related features or both.

The short range communication module provides for communication between the communication device and different systems or devices which need not be similar devices.

For example the short range communication module may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

The display is used to visually present an application s graphical user interface GUI to the user. The user can manipulate application data by modifying information on the GUI using an auxiliary input output device such as a keyboard for example. Depending on the type of communication device the user may have access to other types of input devices such as for example a scroll wheel trackball light pen or touch sensitive screen e.g. a touchscreen display .

The communication device may include a touchscreen display in some example embodiments. The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller. The touch sensitive input surface overlays the display and may be referred to as a touch sensitive overlay. The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. That is the touchscreen display acts as both an input interface and an output interface.

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The communication device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network.

In some example embodiments the communication device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory and a memory module interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the communication device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory module for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module may be inserted in or connected to the memory module interface of the communication device .

The communication device may store data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data may include service data having information required by the communication device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents images and other commonly stored user information stored on the communication device by its user and other data.

In some example embodiments the communication device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their communication device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the communication device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer for processing.

The communication device also includes or is connected to a power source such as a battery which may be one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the communication device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the communication device .

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the communication device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to an operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the communication device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication module or other suitable device subsystems . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory e.g. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

In some example embodiments the communication device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or webpage download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded webpage may be further processed by a web browser or an email message may be processed by the email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the communication device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using an input interface in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the communication device provides telephony functions and may operate as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar to the data communication mode except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the communication device . Although voice or audio signal output may be accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules such as applications stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules may include operating system software and one or more additional applications or modules. The processor may also operate to process data stored in memory associated with the communication device .

A boot sequence is a set of instructions stored on memory of the communication device that is executed by the processor when the communication device is turned on from a powered off state. In a powered off state the operating system and other software modules on or associated with the communication device may not be receiving power and may therefore not be operable. Similarly in accordance with an embodiment in a powered off state the processor is not executing any instructions. In one or more exemplary embodiments the communication device and or the processor may be receiving only minimal power in the powered off state but not enough power to operate with normal working functionality. The communication device may be turned on by providing power to the processor and instructing the processor to initiate or run the boot sequence. Turning the communication device on may be performed by selecting the activation button . In accordance with an embodiment the communication device may have a separate power button which when pressed or selected provides power to the processor and one or more other components and instructs the processor to initiate the boot sequence. In other embodiments the communication device may be turned on or initiated by another input such as voice or through a touchscreen display or by selecting one or more buttons associated with the communication device for a predefined period of time.

The boot sequence can comprise a power on self test or POST routine that runs immediately after a communication device is powered on. The POST routine can initialize the internal signals and ensure that the communication device is operational. For example the POST routine can run internal predetermined tests or diagnostics to verify whether certain processes and or applications associated with the communication device are operational. If the POST routine identifies a failure it causes a message to be output from the communication device e.g. on the display or by an audible message and can also cause the remainder of the boot sequence code to not execute. The remainder of the boot sequence includes code that when executed initializes the operating system and select processes launches any essential applications and prepares the communication device for normal operation. For example the boot sequence locates and loads the operating system instructions into RAM for execution by the processor . Similarly other essential or selected process can be located and loaded into RAM for execution by the processor . In one or more embodiments the boot sequence may also initiate i.e. locate and load a boot loader which is a computer program that can load the main operating system or runtime environment after the POST routine is complete. The boot sequence code often takes between 30 and 120 seconds to complete on a communication device for example. Upon completion of the boot sequence the operating system is then configured to receive input and operate applications and the processor is then configured to execute instructions stored in memory. The boot sequence code may conclude with a signal or indication to the processor that the boot sequence is complete.

In accordance with one or more embodiments the boot sequence code is stored or installed in memory during the manufacture of the communication device . For example the boot sequence may comprise a set of predetermined applications or processes that are programmed into memory during the initial manufacturing and calibration of the communication device . By way of further example the boot sequence may be stored on an integrated circuit read only memory that is in communication with or associated with the processor of the communication device .

It is understood that outputting the animation on the display can be caused by the processor executing instructions stored on memory associated with the communication device . In accordance with an embodiment instructions causing the processor to output the animation on the display during the boot sequence may be installed on the communication device during its manufacture.

In accordance with one or more alternative embodiments the progress indicator indicates how much of the operating system has been loaded into memory of the communication device . For example the progress indicator in could be indicating of the percentage of the operating system that is loaded into memory . In such an embodiment the shaded portion progresses from the first side of the progress indicator to the second side of the progress indicator while the boot sequence is loading the operating system . The amount of the progress indicator that is filled in by the shaded portion can then be proportional to the amount or percentage of the operating system that has been loaded out of the total amount of the operating system that is loaded during the boot sequence. The amount or percentage of the operating system that has been loaded can be determined by the processor evaluating the progress of the boot sequence for example. In a further exemplary embodiment the percentage of the operating system that has been loaded could be translated into units of time and the progress indicator could display the time elapsed out of the boot sequence and the remaining time until completion of the boot sequence as described above.

It is understood that the progress indicator can be different in shape and form from the embodiment depicted in . For example the progress indicator can be a circle that gradually fills in or it can be an audible message output on an output interface other than the display e.g. audibly outputting the time remaining until the boot sequence is complete .

It is understood that outputting the progress indicator can be caused by the processor executing instructions stored on memory associated with the communication device . For example the processor can determine the progress of the boot sequence or can determine at what stage or at what step the boot sequence is in. In response to this determination the processor can estimate the time elapsed until the completion of the boot sequence and can update the shaded portion of the progress indicator to reflect the estimated remaining time in the boot sequence or similarly the processor can update the progress indicator to indicate the progress of the boot sequence.

In accordance with an embodiment the progress indicator and the animation are displayed simultaneously as shown in the exemplary display in . In a finger is touching the touchscreen display the progress indicator is prominently output on the display and the animation shown in dashed lines is faded or shown less prominently on the display . The touch on the touchscreen surface by the finger is an example of an input received at the communication device . It is understood that other types of input are contemplated as an alternative or together with a touch on the touchscreen display. For example the input could be a button selection a trackball movement or an audible command.

In accordance with an embodiment input is received at the touchscreen display and in response the processor executes instructions stored on memory that cause the animation to be output less prominently to fade out or to be removed from the display . In response to receiving the input the processor can also execute instructions stored on memory that cause the progress indicator to be prominently output on the display or otherwise . In accordance with one or more exemplary embodiments the input causes the display to transition from a state in which the progress indicator is not output on the display to a state in which the progress indicator is output on the display .

In one or more embodiments the input received at the communication device lasts for a period of time. For example the finger may remain touching the touchscreen display for a period or duration of time. Or in a further embodiment the duration or period of time lasts as long as a button is pressed. It is understood that there are different types of input that can be received at the communication device for a defined or discrete period of time. In a further embodiment the communication device receives a first input e.g. a touch button selection or audible command followed by a second input e.g. a touch button selection or audible command . In response to the first input the processor initiates the duration or period of time and in response to the second input the processor stops the duration or period of time. Accordingly the progress indicator is displayed for the duration between the receipt of the first input and the receipt of the second input similarly the animation can be faded out or displayed less prominently or removed from the display for the duration of time between the receipt of the first input and the receipt of the second input.

In accordance with one or more embodiments during the boot sequence and while no input is received at the communication device i.e. the processor is not within the duration of time the animation is prominently output on the display .

In accordance with one or more embodiments the location on the display where the progress indicator is output can be dependent on the location of an input to the touchscreen display. For example the touchscreen display may be configured to identify the approximate location on the surface of a touch. In response to receiving a touch on the touchscreen display the processor can execute instructions stored on memory causing the location of the display of the progress indicator to depend on the location of the touch on the surface or touchscreen display . In a further embodiment the location on the display where the progress indicator is output is adjacent to the location of the touch. More specifically the processor executes instructions stored on memory to cause the progress indicator to be output on the display at a location adjacent to the location of the touch.

The communication device may be associated with or include an orientation module that measures the orientation of the communication device . For example the orientation module can be coupled to the processor and can be an application stored in memory that is configured to receive input from an orientation sensor such as one or more accelerometers and or one or more gyroscopes in order to approximate the orientation of the communication device . The one or more accelerometers and or the one or more gyroscopes can be located on the communication device or can be housed in the communication device . The orientation of the communication device can comprise for example an angle of the communication device relative to the ground. The orientation module may be configured to measure and calculate whether one edge of the communication device is above or higher than another edge of the communication device relative to the ground. The measurements taken or calculated or determined by the orientation module can be stored in memory of the communication device and may be accessible by other applications operating on the communication device or otherwise in communication with the communication device . With reference to the communication device can use the orientation module or the measurements calculated by the orientation module to compare the location of a touch on the touchscreen with the location of the output of the progress indicator on the display . In accordance with one or more embodiments in response to receiving a touch on the touchscreen display during the boot sequence the processor may retrieve the orientation measurements from memory or directly from the orientation module and using the orientation measurements may cause the progress indicator to be output on the display above the location of the touch.

In one or more embodiments receiving the input includes receiving a movement of the touch on the touchscreen display and outputting the progress indicator includes displaying the progress indicator and moving the progress indicator in a movement that is dependent on the movement of the touch. It is understood that the touchscreen display can detect and measure the movement of a touch it receives and can store the detected movement e.g. direction speed and or pressure of the touch in memory. For example in accordance with the embodiment illustrated in a finger is touching the touchscreen display and has moved or dragged along the surface across the arrow identified at . The communication device receives this movement as input to the touchscreen display and in response causes the progress indicator to move in a dependent manner on the display as shown by the arrow identified at . For example the finger or other input can move across the touchscreen display with a certain movement which can cause the progress indicator to move across the display in a corresponding movement.

In one or more embodiments in response to a first type of input received at the communication device during the boot sequence the processor causes the animation to disappear from the display and in response to a second type of input received at the communication device during the boot sequence the processor causes the animation to fade out from the display. The first type of input can be different from the second type of input. For example the first type of input is a touch on a touchscreen display with one finger while the second type of input is a touch with two fingers on the touchscreen display. By way of further example the first type of input can be an audible command and the second type of input can be a button selection. However in response to receiving either or both the first type of input and the second type of input during the boot sequence the processor can cause the progress indicator to be output on the display or otherwise.

In another embodiment the input to the communication device during the boot sequence can comprise a pre determined gesture. For example the communication device can compare a received gesture e.g. a hand movement that corresponds to a specific predetermined gesture and this will cause the communication device to output the progress indicator on the display and to fade out or remove the animation if any from the display .

At the boot sequence is initiated at the communication device . For example the boot sequence can be initiated when the communication device is switched on or if it receives a new battery. Upon being initiated the boot sequence may be run or be executed by the processor on the communication device . As noted above the boot sequence requires an amount of time to complete in order to initialize the operating system and other components of the communication device to be ready for normal operation.

At input is received at the communication device during the boot sequence. In other words input is received at the communication device during the time when the boot sequence is operating or running. As noted above the input can be among other things a touch on a location of a touchscreen display or can be a button selection or an audible command. In a further embodiment receiving input at the communication device includes receiving a predetermined gesture. For example communication device can detect a gesture and can store the detection in memory. The processor may then compare the detected gesture with one or more predefined gestures stored in memory with at least one of the predefined gestures associated with an action. If there is a match between the predefined gesture and the detected gesture the action associated with the predefined gesture will be performed.

In one or more embodiments the input is received for a duration of time. For example the input can be a touch on the touchscreen display and the duration can be the amount of time the touch remains on the touchscreen display. By way of further example the input can comprise a first input and a second input with the first input being the start of the duration of time and the second input being the ending of the duration of time. The first input and second input can be button selections audible commands gestures or other types of input for example.

At a progress indicator indicating the progress of the boot sequence is output from the communication device in response to receiving the input. As noted the output can be among other things a display or an audible output. The output can be caused or directed by the processor executing instructions stored in memory. In an embodiment the input includes a gesture detected by the communication device . The detected gesture is compared to one or more predefined gestures stored in memory and if there is a match then the action associated with the matched predefined gesture is performed by the processor . For example the action may be to output the progress indicator on the display .

Outputting the progress indicator can comprise displaying the progress indicator on a location on the display of the communication device . For example the location for displaying the progress indicator can be a predetermined location e.g. stored in memory associated with the communication device on the display . Or alternatively the location on the display where the progress indicator is output can be dynamically selected. For example the location can be selected after input is received at the communication device . In a further embodiment the location of the output of the progress indicator on the display is dependent on the location of a touch on the touchscreen or other input to the communication device . In yet another embodiment the location of the output of the progress indicator on the display is adjacent the location of the touch on the touchscreen. For example the location of the touch on the touchscreen will be detected by the processor and the processor will then cause the progress indicator to be output at a location on the display adjacent to the detected touch.

The method of indicating the progress of a boot sequence on a communication device can also comprise measuring the orientation of the communication device and outputting or displaying the progress indicator in a location on the display that is above the detected location of a touch on the touchscreen display. For example the orientation of the communication device can be measured or detected by the orientation module.

In accordance with one or more embodiments the input received at the communication device includes a movement of a touch on a touchscreen. For example the movement of the touch can be detected at the touchscreen display. In such an embodiment the output of the progress indicator includes moving the progress indicator in a movement that is dependent on the detected movement of the touch. For example the processor can cause the progress indicator to move based on the detected movement of the touch.

In one or more embodiments the progress indicator is output for an output time period. In other words the output time period can be the amount of time that elapses while the progress indicator is being output. For example the progress indicator can be output on the display for the output time period. In accordance with a further embodiment outputting can comprise outputting the progress indicator for an output time period dependent on the duration of time during which the input is received. In yet a further embodiment outputting the progress indicator can comprise outputting one or more of a visual audible or vibrational output.

Optionally shown at the animation is displayed for at least a portion of the duration of the boot sequence. For example the animation can be displayed only at the beginning portion of the boot sequence only at the end of the boot sequence or for the entire duration of the boot sequence.

In one or more embodiments the animation can be an audible message e.g. a song or another type or format of output.

Optionally shown at the animation fades out during the output time period. For example when the input is received the processor causes the animation to change from being prominently output on display to being output less prominently on the display . For example during the output time period the progress indicator can be output on the display overtop of and more prominently than the animation . When the output time period elapses and the progress indicator is no longer being output the processor can cause the animation to fade in or to become more prominently output on the display . By way of further example the animation can disappear for the output time period and reappear when the output time period has elapsed and when the progress indicator is no longer being output . In yet a further example the fading out of the animation during the output time period can be a partial fading out or a slight dimming where the animation become relatively darker when the relatively brighter progress indicator is visible overtop of the animation .

It is understood that the communication device can be an electronic device such as a computer a handheld computer a mobile device a mobile phone a cellular phone a personal digital assistant a tablet computer a desktop computer a wearable computer a personal computer or a smart phone.

While the present application is primarily described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present application is also directed to various apparatus such as communication device including a mobile communications device. The communication device includes components for performing at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods which may be by way of hardware components such as the memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable storage medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. For example a compute readable storage medium may include computer executable instructions for performing one or more of the methods described herein. It is understood that such apparatus and articles of manufacture also come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium or computer readable storage medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

One or more embodiments have been described by way of example. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the art that a number of variations and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of what is defined in the claims.

