---

title: Loan information analysis system and method
abstract: Computer-implemented methods and systems for evaluating residential mortgage loan backed security products in which electronic loan data for the same individual loans is received from two or more different loan information providers, and the electronic loan data for respective individual loans received from the loan information providers is integrated. Thereafter, each individual loan in the integrated loan data is scored with a risk score based on a plurality of risk attributes of each individual loan; pre-defined forecast vectors are applied to the bucketed loans; cash flow forecasts are generated for the bucketed loans; and a price and/or yield for each bucketed loan is derived based on the cash flow forecasts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08438096&OS=08438096&RS=08438096
owner: Amherst Holdings, LLC
number: 08438096
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120716
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 684 535 filed Jan. 8 2010 entitled Loan Information Analysis System and Method which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 143 290 filed Jan. 8 2009 entitled Loan Information Analysis System and Method each of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

The present invention relates generally to the field of financial data management and more particularly to methods and systems for loan information analysis.

Currently Wall Street is struggling to effectively analyze and comprehend the residential mortgage backed security RMBS asset class. Unfortunately the traditional approaches for evaluating the credit characteristics and forecast the investment performance of RMBS have been inaccurate and unreliable. Accordingly there is a present need for a method and system that addresses the problem of effective reliable evaluation of RMBS.

It is a feature and advantage of the present invention to provide methods and systems for loan information analysis for example to analyze the credit quality of RMBS by integrating loan level information along with sophisticated prepay default and loss models to value and evaluate residential mortgages.

To achieve the stated and other features advantages and objectives embodiments of the present invention utilize for example computer hardware operating systems programming languages software applications and other technology to provide methods and systems for evaluating RMBS. These technologies include for example receiving via a first computer software application program process tangibly embodied in a physical storage device executing on a physical computer hardware machine a computer program software application process electronic loan data for the same individual loan from two or more different loan information providers and integrating via a second computer program software application process the electronic loan data for respective individual loans received from the loan information providers.

Thereafter each individual loan in the resulting integrated loan data is scored with a risk score based on a plurality of risk attributes of each individual loan by a third computer program software application process and the individual loans are bucketed into risk groups according to respective risk scores for each individual loan by a fourth computer program software application process. In addition pre defined forecast vectors are applied to the bucketed loans by a fourth computer program software application process to generate cash flow forecasts for the bucketed loans and a price and or yield for each bucketed loan is derived by a fifth computer program software application process based on the cash flow forecasts.

According to embodiments of the invention the electronic loan data is received over a network from databases of two or more different loan information providers and consists of raw mortgage loan data comprising specific loan level attributes. The electronic loan data for embodiments of the invention is independently generated by the loan information providers by electronically scrubbing loan servicer tapes related to the same individual loans and comprises for example loan identification property location occupancy type original loan amount original property appraisal current loan balance interest rate and payment history. In further embodiments the electronic loan data is integrated for example by combining the electronic loan data received from the different loan information providers by programmatically mapping corresponding datasets of the electronic loan data from the respective loan information providers together by master identifiers and generating a blended dataset of electronic loan data provided by the loan information providers.

In embodiments of the invention each loan is risk scored according to pre determined indicia corresponding to different risk levels based on a plurality of risk attributes. These risk attributes include for example loan to value LTV ratio Fair Isaac Corporation FICO credit score the presence or absence of loan documentation occupancy type and or payment history and property value appreciation or depreciation relative to a geographic location of the property from an origination date to a current date. Additional embodiments involve for example calculating a current LTV ratio of each individual loan based upon information about the appreciation or depreciation in value of the loan over time and a current loan balance. According to further embodiments the plurality of risk attributes further includes for example a FICO credit score adjusted according to payment history for each individual loan which payment history comprises a number of missed nonconsecutive payments in an immediately preceding twelve month period any bankruptcy and any foreclosure.

Bucketing the individual loans into risk groups for embodiments of the invention involves for example assigning each individual loan into one of a number of grid buckets according to risk score and then classifying each individual loan into the appropriate bucket depending on whether it is a voluntary prepay loan an involuntary default loan or a defaulted loan. In embodiments of the invention the voluntary prepay loan bucket comprises a bucket for current loans that are expected to prepay the involuntary prepay loan bucket comprises current loans that are expected to default and the defaulted loan bucket comprises loans that are 90 or more days in default already in foreclosure or have been purchased by a lender. Further embodiments involve for example applying the forecast vectors to non performing ones of the individual loans which forecast vectors relate for example to a liquidation model comprising a probability of default a severity of default and a time lag to foreclosure or liquidation.

Additional objects advantages and novel features of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become more apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following or may be learned from practice of the invention.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the invention one or more examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Each example is provided by way of explanation of the invention not as a limitation of the invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. For instance features illustrated or described as part of one embodiment can be used on another embodiment to yield a still further embodiment. Thus it is intended that the present invention cover such modifications and variations that come within the scope of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention utilize one or more special purpose computer software application program processes each of which is tangibly embodied in a physical storage device executable on one or more physical computer hardware machines and each of which is executing on one or more of the physical computer hardware machines each a computer program software application process . Physical computer hardware machines employed in embodiments of the invention comprise for example input output devices motherboards processors logic circuits memory data storage hard drives network connections monitors and power supplies. Such physical computer hardware machines include for example user machines and server machines that may be coupled to one another via a network such as a local area network a wide area network or a global network through telecommunications channels which may include wired or wireless devices and systems.

Embodiments of the invention provide a loan information analysis method and system that addresses the problem of evaluation of residential mortgage backed securities RMBS i.e. securities that are backed by whole residential mortgage loans. This analysis method and system for RMBS also known as bonds employs a proprietary approach for evaluating each individual loan within a given RMBS and assigning a type of risk score. Such embodiments employ a simple color code corresponding to different levels of risk of financial loss on a loan such as red for loans having a higher risk level yellow for loans having an intermediate risk level and green for loans having a lower risk level. After risk scoring the loans are bucketed into groups reflecting consideration of additional elements or risk and other factors. Thereafter various forecasting factors are applied to the bucketed groups of assets and projected cash flows are generated from which a forecast price and or a yield is derived. Embodiments of the invention provide a unique way to address the different risk attributes commonly found in loans and to group loans with similar risk attributes together in order to evaluate and determine a fair price for such loans.

Significant features of embodiments of the invention include for example a distributed architecture collateral grouping pipeline liquidation models historical reports application of vectors at any granularity and quick adjustments to changing market conditions. The distributed architecture for embodiments of the invention provides a load balancing mechanism that enables the running of a bond across multiple servers thereby generating results more quickly. Collateral grouping for embodiments of the invention is a unique way of grouping sets of loans. The distributed architecture for embodiments of the invention relates for example to how analytics are generated by the system. Thus the system servers for embodiments of the invention can be accessed by a user at a client terminal via a network such as the Internet or through any other point of access and a user s request for analytics is broken up and processed over a bank of separate servers.

Embodiments of the invention utilize loan level information and credit analysis based for example on credit models and or user defined analytics to generate full analytical reports. is a schematic flow chart that illustrates an overview example of the process of loan information analysis for embodiments of the invention. Referring to electronic loan data from databases of multiple loan information providers is received and processed via credit analytics credit models and a forecast engine and full analytical reports are generated.

Significant aspects of embodiments of the invention include for example collateral grouping using a blended dataset of electronic loan data provided by multiple loan information providers based on product type pipeline loans in default 90 days or more use of colors for original or current risk levels and second lien status pipeline liquidation model per asset liquidation logic loan history reports prepayment and default vectors applied at any granularity and quick adjustments to changing market conditions latent loss and loan modifications . In the distributed architecture aspect for embodiments of the invention scenarios are broken up and processed simultaneously on separate servers.

Data input for embodiments of the invention includes raw mortgage loan data from a number of different sources. For example providers of data such as INTEX CORPORATION and LOAN PERFORMANCE provide raw whole loan data. Such data includes specific loan level attributes such as loan balance loan type amortization type coupons occupancy type i.e. owner occupied or investor owned . Such data providers acquire the specific information about loans by scrubbing loan servicing system tapes commonly referred to as servicer tapes. For example loan level data is made available to such data providers electronically from loan servicers such as COUNTRYWIDE currently owned by BANK OF AMERICA . While the loan data is acquired by such data providers from the same sources the types of information may vary and their scrubbing techniques can and do vary.

For example the scrubbing techniques employed by one data provider may yield better specific loan information in certain areas than those employed by another data provider. Consequently even though different data providers glean specific loan information from the same raw data they do not necessarily achieve exactly the same results. Thus integrating the loan data from multiple data providers produces a much more comprehensive picture of what a particular loan looks like. The loan level data is received electronically from two or more loan level information providers and reconciled and cleaned using for example computer program software application processes.

Embodiments of the invention employ database hardware and software including for example database loaders and application programming interfaces APIs and utilize electronic data from data providers including for example prime Alt A e.g. less than prime but greater than subprime quality and subprime loan data Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation FHLMC Federal National Mortgage Association FNMA and Government National Mortgage Association GNMA pool data agency and non agency structured product data and collateralized debt obligation CDO data. The loan data include for example deal level data loan master data and dynamic loan data as well nonagency data including for example static loan attribute records loan history records and loan delinquency records. are tables which illustrate examples of types of loan data received from loan information providers for embodiments of the invention. Referring to such loan data includes detailed loan information such as loan ID property location ZIP code occupancy type original loan amount and property appraisal and to current loan balance interest rate delinquency history and foreclosure start and finish dates.

The same sorts of data are acquired from two or more data providers and the respective data sets are integrated for embodiments of the invention. Thus instead of a single data provider s perspective embodiments of the invention provide a combined perspective. In a commonly occurring situation in which one of the data providers does not have certain loan attributes for a particular loan such as occupancy or a FICO credit score of the borrower the other data provider usually has those attributes for the particular loan. Thus integrating the loan data from multiple data providers avoids missing certain key risk indicators which might be overlooked from the perspective of a single data provider.

Computer program software application processes for embodiments of the invention are utilized to blend together the electronic loan information datasets received from loan information providers. For example embodiments of the invention provide a computer application process that ties the data providers bond names together and combines datasets from multiple different data providers by programmatically mapping the data sets together by master identifiers. The result is a blend of datasets from different data providers.

Risk coding of a particular mortgage with a type of risk score for embodiments of the invention is based for example on multiple individual risk attributes of the particular mortgage. A focus on a single risk attribute of the particular mortgage would not provide a basis for accurately assessing the true risks of that individual loan. Accordingly embodiments of the invention involve adjusting a loan s risk score based for example on the history of the payments as well as key fundamental characteristics such as FICO score the presence or absence of documentation on the loan the occupancy type e.g. single family dwelling multi family dwelling or condominium type dwelling loan to value LTV ratio and property value appreciation or depreciation.

Assume for example that a particular loan was originated in 2003. Embodiments of the invention employ another set of data that indicates how that individual loan has appreciated relative to its geographic area from its origination in 2003 to a current date. That information is important with respect to one of the key indicators i.e. the LTV ratio. Armed with information about the appreciation in value of the particular loan over time and the current loan balance the current LTV ratio can be recalculated on the fly based upon how the value of the mortgaged property has appreciated or depreciated relative to the current mortgage loan balance. Inasmuch as LTV ratio is a key risk indicator information about the appreciation or depreciation of the value of the mortgaged property is considered to be critical.

Embodiments of the invention utilize for example the four indicators LTV ratio FICO credit score loan documentation and occupancy type to provide a grid view of risk for a universe of loans based upon those four attributes. According to embodiments of the invention for example the performance histories for loans that fall into each one of three grid buckets are considered and the population of loans segmented using the bucket methodology. It is thus possible to determine how those buckets have been performing and to see that certain types of loans are going to take greater losses than other types of loans. Embodiments of the invention include mechanics of breaking up the non performing bucket and involve the development of forward looking performance forecasting vectors based upon historical data which forecasting vectors can be applied to loan risk buckets.

As previously described herein the blending of two or more mortgage loan datasets yields information such as second lien status that a single dataset may not have and which is very important information to have when determining a risk score on a mortgage loan. Such information about whether a mortgage loan is a second lien or a first lien is not currently readily available in the industry and blending two or more mortgage loan datasets according to embodiments of the invention provides that information quickly.

Assume for example that a financial institution such as a bank which is the owner of a number of mortgage loans wishes to remove those loans from its balance sheet by securitizing the loans into a bond and selling the bond. In securitizing the loans the financial institution may elect to structure the resulting securities so as be collateralized by only first lien loans or by only second lien loans or by a combination of the two loan types. Critical second lien information is uncovered according to embodiments of the invention for example by blending the servicing tape information provided by a particular loan data provider that may lack information about such second lien status with the servicing tape information provided by another loan data provider which includes such information.

It is the general experience of RMBS market participants that second lien mortgage loans default with a much shorter lag and higher severity than first lien mortgage loans. Severity is an industry term that represents the percentage of losses net of advances that occurs when a loan liquidates and lag represents the period of time between the date on which a borrower stops making payments on a loan and the date on which the loan is liquidated. A bond may be comprised of first and second lien loans and embodiments of the invention involve breaking the bond into buckets by lien type and simulating an aggressive defaulting of all second lien loans at high severities and running all first lien loans at less aggressive loss scenarios. Thus the second lien loans in the bond may fall into a bucket associated with the greatest risk while the first lien loans in the bond may fall into a bucket associated with less risk.

Embodiments of the invention leverage the blended datasets so that individual groups of loans can be bucketed with greater detail and more accurately reflect the type of risk that is associated with each bucket. Product type relates to mortgage loan amortization type such as adjustable rate mortgages ARMs 30 year fixed interest rate mortgages 15 year fixed interest rate mortgages and 5 year hybrid loan mortgages. Pipelines are mortgage loans that are in default and have not been paid in 90 days i.e. 90 day delinquent loans . Embodiments of the invention involve for example breaking the Pipeline 90 loans into their own bucket and thereafter forecasting how that bucket will act over a pre determined period of time such as the next 360 months.

Such forecasts are based for example on a substantial amount of historical research and prior experience with Pipeline loans to determine on a geographic basis the probability of default the average severity of loss and the average amount of time lag to foreclosure and or liquidation on particular loans. Based on such forecasts the Pipeline liquidation model for embodiments of the invention determines how to liquidate or amortize 90 assets on a loan by loan basis. For example the pipeline liquidation model may forecast that a particular loan will default in six months and will liquidate 15 months later.

Other computer program software application processes are used for example to adjust FICO scores based on mortgage payment history and to adjust LTV ratios for home price appreciation HPA which drives defaults and loss severities. In addition private mortgage insurance PMI can be added or removed as an evaluation factor using still other computer program software application processes. is a table which illustrates examples of adjustments to loan information as well default probability estimates amount of loss on default expressed in percentage of outstanding balance and credit enhancement. includes columns for example for loan ID status payment history original and current loan balance original combined and amortized LTV ratio FICO score and adjusted FICO score state and ZIP code occupancy and property type loan purpose and PMI loan documentation and lien status credit enhancement CE AAA and CE B default probability FF and estimated loss on default LS .

Collateral bucketing for embodiments of the invention involves for example use of additional computer program software application processes to segregate loans into buckets such as a bucket for voluntary prepay loans a bucket for involuntary default loans and a bucket for defaulted loans. Prepayment occurs when a loan is paid in full before maturity or default. Thus a loan may be prepaid during its normal course for example when the loan is re financed or when the mortgagor dies or sells the mortgaged property. The voluntary prepay loan bucket includes for example current loans that are expected to prepay the involuntary prepay loan bucket includes for example current loans that are expected to default and the defaulted loan bucket includes for example loans that are 90 or more days in default already in foreclosure or have been purchased by the lender REO . Still additional computer program software application processes can be used to further segregate the loans for example by loan type. is a table that illustrates an example of buckets for voluntary prepay loans involuntary default loans and defaulted loans for embodiments of the invention.

The collateral grouping aspect for embodiments of the invention focuses for example on product type and details of product type such as thirty 30 year ARMs with fixed interest rates for the initial two three or five years Pipeline loans in default 90 or more days use of color representations for loans at origination and with current scoring lien status loan modifications and latent loss loans. The flexible architecture developed for embodiments of the invention allows easy changes to grouping requirements.

The Pipeline model for embodiments of the invention is based on a severity and lag grid created by bucketing first lien loans by metropolitan statistical area MSA and loan balance. Pipeline loans are matched to the grid for severity and lag second lien Pipeline loans are assigned static severities and Pipeline loans with stale last interest paid dates are liquidated immediately with variable breadth derived from delinquency status.

Current color scoring for embodiments of the invention utilizes the combined loan to value CLTV ratio i.e. the LTV when there is more than one loan on the property . If the mortgaged property is not owner occupied then a pre determined percentage such as ten percent is added to the CLTV. If property type is equal to two to four units or manufactured housing then a pre determined percentage such as ten percent is likewise added to the CLTV. FICO scores are adjusted depending for example on how many times the borrower missed nonconsecutive payments in the immediately preceding twelve months. For example 

Historical reports for embodiments of the invention are compiled according to pre defined algorithms based on historic data and illustrate different performance reports for groups of loans or individual loans. Applying vectors at any granularity for embodiments of the invention involves for example developing forward looking forecast vectors such as prepayment and default vectors based upon historical research on loans.

Quick adjustments to changing market conditions for embodiments of the invention involve modeling based on observations in the market. For example there is currently considerable discussion and activity regarding loan modifications. Embodiments of the invention involve development of a loan modification model that enables a forecast of what is likely to occur over a succeeding period of time such as two three or four years in connection with a study of defaulting loans. For example the loan modification model for embodiments of the invention can predict that in the event a given number of loans default a certain number of those loans are going to be modified for example between the servicer dealing directly with the borrower and negotiating a new balance and or rate and forecast that during the modification process certain events will occur on a forward looking basis up to at least 360 months.

The Pipeline model for embodiments of the invention utilizes for example geographic research to determine severity and lag for liquidation. According to embodiments of the invention second lien Pipeline loans are assigned a static severity because research indicates that virtually all second lien loans default with a severity of 105 . Embodiments of the invention involve for example shocking or downgrading the FICO score based upon payment history.

The results generated according to embodiments of the invention can be utilized for example by trading desks to evaluate RMBS and or to mark to market a portfolio of such products. An in the pipeline model for embodiments of the invention relates to loans that are already in the default process i.e. assumed will not prepay and involves use of models for liquidation lag and loss severity or user inputs for loss severities and distribution of recoveries and losses.

A voluntary prepay model for embodiments of the invention relates to loans that are projected to prepay in full and involves use of prepay timing models according to product type such as ARMs with fixed interest rates for two or three years and adjustable for 28 or 27 years respectively fixed interest rates etc. is a graph that illustrates an example of the relationship between percent constant prepayment rate vs. weighted average loan age for actual subprime prepays fixed interest rate actual AltA prepays fixed interest rate subprime prepay model fixed interest rate and AltA prepay model fixed interest rate for embodiments of the invention.

An involuntary model for embodiments of the invention relates to loans that are current today but projected to default and involves use of loss timing models faster or slower loss timing according to product type such as ARMs with fixed interest rates for two or three years and adjustable for 28 or 27 years respectively fixed interest rates etc. is a graph that illustrates an example of the relationship between percent of losses incurred vs. weighted average loan age for actual 2 28 ARMs and model 2 28 ARMs for embodiments of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention involve an engine for generating price yield through which all cash flows are run to develop tranche level analytics. Tranche level cash flows are used to analyze a Pay As You Go Credit Default Swap on an RMBS i.e. a credit derivative transaction based on a specific RMBS . is a GUI display that illustrates an example of a loss scenario grid analysis screen with price and yield figures for embodiments of the invention.

The vectors aspect for embodiments of the invention involves for example creation of a basket model that enables the assignment of custom vectors such as prepay vectors mortgage default rate vectors and loss vectors to any collateral grouping. is a GUI display that illustrates an example of a basket mapper screen with basket name and bucket and vector types for embodiments of the invention.

Referring further to at S the individual loans are bucketed into risk groups according to respective risk scores for each individual loan by a fourth computer program software application process and at S pre defined forecast vectors are applied to the bucketed loans to generate cash flow forecasts for the bucketed loans by a fourth computer program software application process. At S a price and or yield are is derived for each bucketed loan based on the cash flow forecasts by a fifth computer program software application process.

Various preferred embodiments of the invention have been described in fulfillment of the various objects of the invention. It should be recognized that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and adaptations thereof will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

