---

title: Using link strength in knowledge-based authentication
abstract: An improved technique generates questions to authenticate a user as part of a group. Along these lines, a KBA system, upon receiving a request to authenticate a particular user, collects facts having references to users of the group of users. The collected facts, however, may also include references to users not in the group of users. In building a set of questions for the particular user, the KBA system is capable of favoring facts having references to users of the group of users and few, if any, references to users not in the group of users; conversely, the KBA system is capable of discarding facts having too many references to users not in the group of users. The particular user's responses to the set of questions are indicative of whether the particular user belongs to the group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09183595&OS=09183595&RS=09183595
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 09183595
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120330
---
In knowledge based authentication KBA an organization questions a user for particular personal information. Such questions may include when were you married what was the make and model of your first car and what was the name of your first pet . The user must answer the set of questions correctly in order to prove to the organization that he or she is not an imposter.

Conventional KBA service providers form questions that an organization presents to a particular user based on facts concerning the particular user. To this effect KBA service providers perform searching operations on facts in a database for instances of a user identifier corresponding to the particular user. The facts resulting from the searching operations are used to form the questions.

Along these lines suppose that a conventional KBA service provider retrieves facts of multiple users from a LexisNexis server and stores the facts in a database. Further suppose that when the KBA service provider later performs an authentication operation on a user having an identifier User P the KBA service provider retrieves facts stored in the database that are connected to User P. An example of such a fact includes User P and User Q bought a house in Westborough Mass. on Mar. 30 2011 for 355 500 using agent User R. The KBA service provider uses this fact to form questions such as On what day did you User P purchase your house in Westborough Mass. and How much was the purchase price of your User P s home in Westborough Mass. .

Unfortunately there are deficiencies with the above described conventional KBA service providers. For example a conventional KBA service provider forms questions that are too difficult for a legitimate user to answer. Along the lines of the example described above User P may have a difficult time remembering the date or the exact purchase price of his or her house. In such a case there would be a likelihood of User P not receiving the authentication that he deserves.

Moreover at the same time the conventional KBA service provider forms questions that are too easy for a fraudulent user to answer. For example consider that User R was User P s agent for the purchase of his house in Westborough Mass. User R s circumstances may have changed and User R is now fraudulently attempting to access personal information belonging to User P. User R may have a better memory of that transaction than User P and is more able to answer questions based on the home purchase facts described above. Furthermore attempts to ease the difficulty of the questions for User P such as asking what month he or she purchased the house may result in the resulting questions being too easy for a fraudulent user such as User R to answer.

A reason why the conventional KBA service provider is unable to better control the level of difficulty of the questions posed to a user lies in the fact that the KBA service provider does not consider connections between a particular user and other users that may or may not share knowledge of certain facts. For example facts that have too many connections to other users may result in questions that are too easy for when the other users pose as fraudulent users.

Additionally in many cases an organization presenting questions to a particular user is not interested in authenticating the user as an individual but rather as a member of a group. This is true for corporate organizations providing access to shared resources belonging to a group of users. Nevertheless because the conventional KBA service provider does not consider connections between members of the group the conventional KBA service provider is unable to derive questions to which only the members of the group should know the answers.

In contrast to conventional KBA service providers which have difficulty in forming appropriately challenging questions to users according to specific authentication goals of an organization an improved technique generates questions to authenticate a user as part of a group. Along these lines a KBA system upon receiving a request to authenticate a particular user collects facts having references to users of the group of users. The collected facts however may also include references to users not in the group of users. In building a set of questions for the particular user the KBA system is capable of favoring facts having references to users of the group of users and few if any references to users not in the group of users conversely the KBA system is capable of discarding facts having too many references to users not in the group of users. The particular user s responses to the set of questions are indicative of whether the particular user belongs to the group.

Along these lines suppose that in addition to the fact cited above there is another fact stating that User P and User Q were married in Chapel C in Nashua N.H. The relationship between User P and User Q is clearly different from that between User P and User R. Suppose further that the authentication is directed to deciding whether to allow User P access to Bank Account X shared by User P and User Q. The bank is more interested in User P being a member of the group Owners of Bank Account X than as User P himself. Because the fact User P and User Q were married in Chapel C in Nashua N.H. only has references to members of the group Owners of Bank Account X this fact is useful for generating questions for User P as a member of that group. In contrast the fact cited above because it also has a reference to User R who is not a member of this group is less useful and perhaps harmful for generating such questions.

Advantageously the improved technique allows a KBA system to generate well targeted questions i.e. questions that result in fewer false positives and false negatives. The KBA system can control a level of difficulty of the questions by examining a number of references between users in a group and a set of facts. The KBA system can further refine this level of difficulty by examining the number of references between users in the group and users outside of the group. While resulting sets of questions generated by the KBA system may be further refined by submitting the questions to a controlled feedback mechanism reliance of the KBA system on such feedback mechanisms in obtaining well targeted questions is dramatically reduced.

One embodiment of the improved technique is directed to a method of generating a set of questions in a KBA system. The method includes collecting a set of facts that have references to a population of users. The method also includes receiving a request to authenticate a particular user claiming to belong to a group of users included in the population of users. The method further includes identifying a set of group facts in response to the request each group fact of the set of group facts being included in the set of facts and having references to users of the group of users. The method further includes generating the set of questions from the set of group facts responses to questions of the set of questions provided by the particular user being indicative of whether the particular user belongs to the group of users.

Additionally some embodiments of the improved technique are directed to an apparatus constructed and arranged to generate a set of questions in a KBA system. The apparatus includes a network interface memory and a controller including controlling circuitry constructed and arranged to carry out the method of generating a set of questions in the KBA system.

Furthermore some embodiments of the improved technique are directed to a computer program product having a non transitory computer readable storage medium which stores code including a set of instructions to carry the method of generating a set of questions in a KBA system.

An improved technique generates questions to authenticate a user as part of a group. Along these lines a KBA system upon receiving a request to authenticate a particular user collects facts having references to users of the group of users. The collected facts however may also include references to users not in the group of users. In building a set of questions for the particular user the KBA system is capable of favoring facts having references to users of the group of users and few if any references to users not in the group of users conversely the KBA system is capable of discarding facts having too many references to users not in the group of users. The particular user s responses to the set of questions are indicative of whether the particular user belongs to the group.

Advantageously the improved technique allows a KBA system to generate well targeted questions i.e. questions that result in fewer false positives and false negatives. The KBA system can control a level of difficulty of the questions by examining a number of references between users in a group and a set of facts. The KBA system can further refine this level of difficulty by examining the number of references between users in the group and users outside of the group. While resulting sets of questions generated by the KBA system may be further refined by submitting the questions to a controlled feedback mechanism reliance of the KBA system on such feedback mechanisms in obtaining well targeted questions is dramatically reduced.

Communication medium provides network connections between KBA system fact source and feedback server . Communications medium may implement a variety of protocols such as TCP IP UDP ATM Ethernet Fibre Channel combinations thereof and the like. Furthermore communications media may include various components e.g. cables switches routers gateways bridges NAS SAN appliances nodes interfaces etc. . Moreover the communications medium are capable of having a variety of topologies e.g. queue manager and spoke ring backbone multi drop point to point irregular combinations thereof and so on .

Fact source includes a database in communication with KBA system . For example fact source is a LexisNexis server. In some arrangements fact source is remote from KBA server in other arrangements fact source is in the same location as KBA server . In other arrangements fact source includes multiple sources e.g. Microsoft Exchange server SAP server etc.

Application server is an electronic system in communication with database server and external systems such as enterprise app server that provide an application programming interface API for providing questions to user . Application server may also be in communication with a NetView terminal at which a service representative provides questions to user .

Database server is an electronic system in communication with application server . Database server includes storage device on which database is stored.

Database is a database which stores facts in a common format. Database includes entries each of which represents a fact. The common format is represented by various fields within each entry. In some arrangements database is a relational database in other arrangements database is a NoSQL database.

During operation fact source sends facts to KBA server. In some arrangements fact source sends facts to KBA system on a regular basis as part of a subscription. In other arrangements fact source sends facts to KBA system in response to a request sent by KBA server .

Database server collects facts upon the arrival of facts at KBA system and stores facts in database . It should be understood that facts are specifically formatted for storage in database such that database server may perform database operations on database to find specific values of fields in entries of database .

In some arrangements each entry of database corresponds to a fact . In such cases database server formats facts so that field values are parsed from the fact and stored in a field of the entry. For example the fact User P and User Q bought a house in Westborough Mass. on Mar. 30 2011 for 355 500 using agent User R may be parsed into fields User Identifiers User P User Q User R Activity Purchase Object House Activity Day 30 Activity Month March Activity Year 2011 Activity Amount 355 500 and Activity Location Westborough Mass. .

It should be understood however that facts that are too old may not form good questions as users memories are limited. Further facts are typically purged for space reasons. Along these lines facts include a value of a time to live TTL parameter this value is stored in a field in the entry of database corresponding to a particular fact . When the value of the TTL parameter for the fact exceeds a TTL threshold value e.g. 12 months then database server purges fact from database and excludes fact from question building.

Examples below will assume that each entry of database corresponds to a fact . In this case a fact referencing a user means that a user identifier associated with the user is contained in a User Identifier field in an entry of database . It should be understood however that other database structures are possible for storing and accessing facts.

Some time after database server collects facts in database user submits a request either directly through enterprise app server or via service rep to KBA system . Request indicates that user is to be authenticated as part of a group of users group being a part of a greater population of users that are referenced in the facts stored in database .

Upon receiving the request database server performs a lookup operation on facts in database to find facts that have references to users of group . Along these lines suppose that group includes User P and User Q. Database server finds entries of database having User Identifier field values equal to User P or User Q. One of the facts selected in the lookup operation could be User P and User Q bought a house in Westborough Mass. on Mar. 30 2011 for 355 500 using agent User R. 

Database server then generates questions from the selected facts and sends the questions to app server for storage and analysis. App server ranks the questions according to a set of rules and sends a set of questions 48 based on the ranking either to user via enterprise app server or to service rep via NetView terminal . User sends responses to the set of questions 48 back to KBA system whereupon app server analyzes solutions and generates an authentication result based on the analysis.

In some arrangements database server excludes facts having references to users not belonging to a group. Along these lines suppose that in addition to the fact cited above there is another fact stating that User P and User Q were married in Chapel C in Nashua N.H. The relationship between User P and User Q is clearly different from that between User P and User R. Suppose further that the authentication is directed to deciding whether to allow User P access to Bank Account X shared by User P and User Q. The bank is more interested in User P being a member of the group Owners of Bank Account X than as User P himself. Because the fact User P and User Q were married in Chapel C in Nashua N.H. only has references to members of the group Owners of Bank Account X this fact is useful for generating questions for User P as a member of that group. In contrast the fact cited above because it also has a reference to User R who is not a member of this group is less useful and perhaps harmful for generating such questions.

In some arrangements user is known to be a legitimate or a fraudulent user. KBA system sends authentication results including false positive results in which user being a fraudulent user results in a favorable authentication result and false negative results in which user being a legitimate user results in an unfavorable authentication result to feedback server for a feedback operation. Along these lines feedback server performs machine learning operations such as neural network iterations in order to generate a refined set of rules for app server to apply to questions built by database server .

Network interface takes the form of an Ethernet card in some arrangements network interface takes other forms including a wireless receiver and a token ring card.

Memory is configured to store code which includes question code configured to generate a set of questions from facts see stored in database . Memory also includes space for intermediate data in which intermediate results of question building are stored. Memory generally takes the form of e.g. random access memory flash memory or a non volatile memory.

Processor takes the form of but is not limited to Intel or AMD based MPUs and can include a single or multi cores each running single or multiple threads. Processor is coupled to memory and is configured to execute instructions from question code and lookup code . Processor includes question engine and lookup engine .

During operation network interface receives facts and places then in the space for intermediate data in memory . Processor parses facts into field values as described above and stores the field values in database .

Some time later network interface receives request indicating that user is to be authenticated as part of a group . Upon receiving request lookup engine performs a lookup operation on database returning to memory indices of entries of database corresponding to facts having values of the User Identifier field equal to user identifiers corresponding to users of group . Further details of the results of the lookup process are shown with respect to .

Link table represents the relationship between facts users of group and users of user population . Note that user population includes group User E and User F. For each fact link table shows whether there is a reference to each user of group no background or other users of user population shaded background . For example Fact has references to all users of user population including all users of group . In contrast Fact has references to all users of group and no other users.

Link strength table represents how many users to whom each fact refers. Specifically link strength table includes fields for an internal link strength which refers to how many users of group are referred to by a fact and an external link strength which refers to how many users outside of group are referred to by a fact. To continue the example above Fact has an internal link strength of 4 all 4 users of group have a reference in Fact and an external link strength of 2 the other 2 users in population and not in group have a reference in Fact . In contrast Fact has an internal link strength of 4 all 4 users of group have a reference in Fact and an external link strength of 0 no 2 users in population and not in group have a reference in Fact .

Database server uses link strength table in building the set of questions 48 for user . Along these lines database server favors entries in link strength table that have a large value of internal link strength and a small value of external link strength . For example database server forms a set of weights corresponding to each fact used in building questions. In some arrangements database server generates the set of weights from a difference between internal link strength and external link strength . In this way questions that are known to too many users not in group are excluded from question building.

In some arrangements however additional analysis is needed. For example it may be important to know more detail about the relationships between various users of user population and group in order to determine the role of the various facts in building questions. An example of such detail is shown with respect to .

Graph is a graph of various relationships between the users User A User B User C User D User E and User F as described with respect to the example above. Graph is an example of a graph generated using a force based algorithm in which the users are represented as nodes and relationships between users are represented as edges. In graph each user has an edge connecting its respective node to a node representing Fact this reflects the fact that for Fact there is a reference to each user of population . Further in force based algorithms each node and edge are modeled as being subject to various physical laws for example each edge can be thought of as a spring subject to Hooke s law and each vertex can be thought of as a charge subject to Coulomb s law although other physical laws may be used in drawing a graph. By calibrating the parameters of the graph to known data e.g. using appropriate values of charges and spring constants a force based algorithm can draw a graph which in equilibrium accurately represents the closeness of users and the impact of that closeness on question building.

Along these lines suppose that group represents members of a team within an organization that regularly attends a series of meetings and Fact represents a particular instance of the series of meetings e.g. a meeting on a particular day not too long ago . Members of the team all were at this particular meeting or had knowledge of it through a calendar entry . It should be clear that each member of the team knows each other. These references are each represented by an edge or a line connecting the various nodes. Further members not in group i.e. User E and User F are referenced in Fact and have respective edges drawn to the node representing Fact. User E also has a connection to User D and User F has a connection to User C. For example User E shares a cubicle with User D and has been invited this one time to the meeting while User F is User C s supervisor with a meeting invite as well. Those relationships may be characterized by particular values of charges and spring constants in the forced base algorithm for drawing graph .

It should be understood that connections between two users in this context means a number of facts mentioning both users. Lookup engine performs periodic lookup operations to determine this numbers of connections between pairs of users of the population and stores these numbers in database . Processor then accesses these numbers from database when building a graph in response to request . A decision to include Fact in question building involves comparing a minimum distance between nodes representing users belonging to group and users not belonging to group to an external distance threshold if the minimum distance is less than the external distance threshold Fact is excluded from question building.

Question engine builds questions taking into account distances between various nodes in graph . Along these lines users in group are all close to each other and to Fact and therefore have a strong relationship with each other and Fact. User F is also close to User C and Fact it could be inferred that User F knows whatever User C knows about Fact. It may be inferred that including facts referencing User F then could be risky. User E on the other hand although connected is far from User D meaning that there are probably few connections between User C and User D other than by sharing a cubicle. In such a case it may be a relatively low risk to include facts involving User E despite User E not belonging to group .

Graph on the other hand shows these relationships but with User E and User F having no references to Fact but having the same relationships as described with respect to graph . In this case while the risk may be lower of User E and User F knowing information regarding group the existence of the connections to User D and User C respectively makes determining whether to include Fact in question building nontrivial.

While various embodiments of the invention have been particularly shown and described it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

For example the feedback server can be a part of an adaptive authentication system including a risk engine.

Furthermore it should be understood that some embodiments are directed to KBA system which is constructed and arranged to provide a set of questions. Some embodiments are directed to a process of providing a set of questions in a KBA system. Also some embodiments are directed to a computer program product which enables computer logic to provide a set of questions in a KBA system.

In some arrangements KBA system is implemented by a set of processors or other types of control processing circuitry running software. In such arrangements the software instructions can be delivered within KBA system respectively see as well as to database server in the form of a computer program product each computer program product having a computer readable storage medium which stores the instructions in a non volatile manner. Alternative examples of suitable computer readable storage media include tangible articles of manufacture and apparatus such as CD ROM flash memory disk memory tape memory and the like.

