---

title: Controlled covalent attachment of bioactive bacteriophage for regulating biofilm development
abstract: Medical devices that are resistant to biofilm development and methods of the manufacture of biofilm resistant medical devices are provided. One or more bacteriophages are tethered to the surface of a medical device or a hydrogei-type coating on the surface of the device by covalent bonding while maintaining bacteriophage infective or lytic activity. The presence of the bacteriophages on a medical device, such as an indwelling medical device, prevents biofilm formation or reduces existing biofilm formation on the surface of the device when in use. These devices address the long felt need for biofilm resistant devices that increase safety and reduce complications normally associated with prior indwelling or other medical devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09457132&OS=09457132&RS=09457132
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary, Department of Health and Human Services
number: 09457132
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120628
---
This application is the U.S. national phase of PCT US2012 044707 filed Jun. 28 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 501 975 filed Jun. 28 2012 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

Methods for production of covalently bound bioactive bacteriophage s to surfaces for the prevention or amelioration of biofilm formation are provided. The methods are useful for the production of medical devices such as indwelling catheters and the prevention or treatment of biofilm formation or localized bacterial infections.

According to the US Department of Health and Human Services healthcare associated infections HAI such as catheter associated bloodstream and urinary tract infections ventilator associated pneumonia and surgical site infections are among the leading causes of hospital deaths in the US accounting for 1.7 million infections and 99 000 associated deaths in 2002. 1 2 Treating HAI translates to increases in the cost of patient care. For example it is estimated that HAI incur an estimated 28 33 billion in excess healthcare costs each year 1 . Catheter associated urinary tract infections CAUTI are the most common HAI representing more than 30 of HAI reported by acute care hospitals 3 . This translates into 560 000 infections annually with an attributable mortality rate of 2.3 13 000 deaths 3 . In addition to UTI attributable deaths CAUTI are the leading cause of secondary healthcare associated bloodstream infections which have a mortality rate of 10 4 . Overall CAUTI significantly increase patient morbidity increasing hospital stays and costs of patient care 5 8 . Catheter associated microbes are also thought to be one of the largest reservoirs of nosocomial antibiotic resistant pathogens 9 10 .

Most CAUTI develop when bacteria from a variety of sources colonize the urinary catheter 11 13 . Upon attaching to surfaces of the device bacteria proliferate and form aggregates within a complex matrix consisting of extracellular polymeric substances typically polysaccharides and polypeptides 15 . This mass of attached bacteria and the associated extracellular polymeric substances is commonly referred to as a biofilm or slime 63 . Antibacterial agents have difficulty penetrating biofilms and killing and or inhibiting the proliferation of the bacteria within the biofilm 64 . The colonization of the bacteria on and around the device and the synthesis of the biofilm barrier may eventually result in encrustation occlusion and failure of the device. The biofilm itself also serves as a sanctuary for pathogens particularly bacterial pathogens including gram positive bacteria such a species and species and gram negative bacteria such as species and species .

Biofilm associated organisms may elicit disease processes by detachment of individual cells or aggregates of cells resulting in bloodstream or urinary tract infections by production of endotoxin or by providing a niche for the development of antimicrobial resistant organisms. One example of a pathogen associated with CAUTI is . Both and coagulase negative staphylococci for example have emerged as major nosocomial pathogens associated with biofilm formation on implanted medical devices 65 66 . These organisms are among the normal carriage flora of human skin and mucous membranes making them prevalent complications during and after invasive surgery or prolonged hospital stays. As bacteria carried on both healthy and sick people staphylococci are considered opportunistic pathogens that invade subjects via open wounds and via implanted medical devices.

Several approaches for delaying CAUTI biofilm development have been investigated but no effective strategy has been established. Because biofilm organisms are highly tolerant to antimicrobial agents infections associated with indwelling catheters often do not respond to systemic drug therapy. Instillation of the catheter retention balloon with bactericidal chemicals may introduce high enough local concentrations to significantly inhibit biofilm formation but only certain combinations of chemicals and catheter materials are compatible 18 19 . Catheter coatings impregnated with silver alloy have shown mixed results with no clear efficacy in human patients 20 22 . Prior methods designed to impregnate bacteriophage failed to produce sufficient reduction in biofilm formation.

Therefore there is a need for new methods of preventing or treating biofilm formation on the surface of medical devices or for localized therapy of bacterial infection such as in burn therapy.

The following summary of the invention is provided to facilitate an understanding of some of the innovative features unique to the present invention and is not intended to be a full description. A full appreciation of the various aspects of the invention can be gained by taking the entire specification claims drawings and abstract as a whole.

A medical device is provided that is suitable for short or long term indwelling or surface use for a subject that is resistant to biofilm development by the inclusion of one or more bioactive bacteriophages covalently tethered to one or more surfaces of the device. A medical device includes one or more surfaces and a bioactive bacteriophage composition covalently tethered to the surface or a coating material carried by one or more of the surfaces wherein the bacteriophage are not embedded into the coating or the surface and wherein the bacteriophage composition is capable of inhibiting formation of bacterial biofilm on the medical device. Medical devices claimed are capable of being used for short or long term applications and continue to prevent biofilm formation on the device while in use.

Also provided is a method for inhibiting formation of a bacterial biofilm on a surface of a medical device including covalently tethering one or more bacteriophages that inhibit formation of a bacterial biofilm to the surface of a medical device or a coating material present on a surface of a medical device prior to formation of a biofilm on the surface or coating. Alternatively a bacteriophage is tethered to a device either on a surface or a coating on the surface following some level of biofilm formation whereby the tethered phage is capable of reducing the biofilm presence or preventing further biofilm formation.

Methods of forming a medical device are also provided that include covalently tethering a bioactive bacteriophage into a coating material on one or more surfaces of a medical device. Methods optionally include activating a surface or coating material on a medical device with 4 nitrophenyl chloroformate or other suitable tethering chemistry to produce an activated surface prior to covalently tethering a bacteriophage.

The devices and methods provided prevent or treat biofilm formation on the surface of a medical device improve medical device functionality reduce complications of medical device use and or improve subject compliance.

The following description of particular embodiment s is merely exemplary in nature and is in no way intended to limit the scope of the invention its application or uses which may of course vary. The invention is described with relation to the non limiting definitions and terminology included herein. These definitions and terminology are not designed to function as a limitation on the scope or practice of the invention but are presented for illustrative and descriptive purposes only. While the devices and processes are described as an order of individual steps or using specific materials it is appreciated that described steps or materials may be interchangeable such that the description of the invention includes multiple parts or steps arranged in many ways as is readily appreciated by one of skill in the art.

Methods for the selective association of bioactive bacteriophage phage to the surface of a medical device are provided. These methods allow the production of devices that are highly resistant to biofilm formation. Devices such as flexible patches incorporating covalently surface bound bacteriophage are also useful for localized prevention or therapy of bacterial infection. Thus the invention has utility as for the prevention or treatment of localized bacterial infection and the production of biofilm resistant medical devices.

As used herein the term bioactive is intended to mean that a phage tethered to a surface maintains some level of activity of that of an unbound phage. In some embodiments a tethered phage is bioactive if it is capable of recognizing a target bacterium binding to a target bacterium transferring genetic material to a target bacterium or causing lysis of a target bacterium or combinations thereof. An effective amount of bacteriophage is an amount of bioactive bacteriophage sufficient to reduce prevent or otherwise ameliorate biofilm formation on at least a portion of a surface to which the bacteriophage is covalently tethered.

A medical device is provided whereby bioactive phage s is covalently attached to a surface of the device where a surface may be a coating such as a hydrogel coating material. Unlike prior attempts as using phage as agents for the prevention of biofilm that incorporate the phage into a matrix e.g. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2009 0191254 the present methods and devices use highly specific covalent attachment of the phage to the surface of the device or surface of a coating and are substantially to completely absent embedded phage within the surface or coating. Prior to the inventors attempts to attach phage direct covalent attachment required the presence of biological linkers such as antibodies coat proteins or other indirect methods to maintain the bioactivity infectivity of the tethered phage. It was unknown whether possible conformational or structural changes resulting from direct tethering or tethering process would prevent phage binding to bacteria or effective transfer of phage material into the bacteria. The prevailing belief was that covalent attachment of phage would significantly affect the amount of active phage on the surface. Unexpectedly the tethering of phage shows high infectivity and allows for highly localized concentration of the phage to the surface of the device. As used herein the term tethering is intended to mean a covalent attachment of phage to the surface of a device or a coating on a device. Tethering excludes incorporation or embedding of phage within a matrix such as a coating on the surface of a device.

Several medical devices such as indwelling medical devices with phage tethered to a surface of the device are provided. In some embodiments phages are tethered to a surface of a device intended to be contacted with a portion of a patient such as the patient s skin. In some embodiments phage are tethered to a surface of a device where biofilm formation is historically or may be formed such as on the surface of a device for example the surface of a catheter including the luminal or extraluminal surfaces or both. Medical devices including tethered phage are useful for introduction into the body of a subject. In some embodiments a medical device includes one or more surfaces onto which a bacterial biofilm can form and an effective amount of tethered bacteriophage on one or more of these surfaces wherein the bacteriophage composition inhibits formation of the bacterial biofilm on the surface of the medical device. As a non limiting example the medical device is suitable for surgical implantation within the body such as an indwelling medical device. Such medical devices include for example a catheter for example a urinary catheter or an intravascular catheter a stent a shunt an endotracheal tube a gastric feeding tube an artificial joint an intrauterine device an artificial voice prosthesis a needleless connector for a central venous catheter a tympanostomy tube an artificial heart valve a pacemaker contact lens es nano and microparticles such as those used for controlled delivery of therapeutics among others known in the art. A medical device optionally is used to contact a body surface but is not an indwelling medical device. For example the medical device may be a contact lens a suture a bandage a patch or other surface contacting devices known in the art.

As used herein a subject is a human non human primate or other mammal. Illustrative examples of a subject include a human bovine equine murine rabbit or guinea pig.

A bacteriophage useful for tethering includes any bacteriophage capable of infecting a bacterial host including those naturally or artificially produced illustratively from directed evolution approaches. Illustrative examples of bacteriophages include those capable of infecting bacteria of the family Enterobacteriaceae illustratively bacteria of the genus or combinations thereof. Illustrative examples of phages include those capable of causing lysis or infection of coagulase negative staphylococci or other clinically relevant bacteria. Additional bacteriophage illustratively include those capable of infecting bacteria that cause Otitis Media or those that participate in joint infections central line associated bloodstream infections or other bacteria that are responsible for or play a role in biofilm formation on any surface.

In some embodiments combinations of phages are used such as combinations of any phages listed herein or others operable for preventing or treating biofilm formation or treating bacterial infection. A major advantage of this strategy is the ability to tether combinations of different bacteriophages to expand the specificity of the target bacteria.

In some embodiments phages or combinations thereof are used illustratively those present in the phage library at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC . Many of these phages produce plaques with the expanding halo that is characteristic of free polysaccharide depolymerase an enzyme that can aid biofilm degradation 27 29 . One specific non limiting example includes bacteriophage 456. A staphylococcal bacteriophage composition optionally has 10PFU ml of bacteriophage 456.

Illustrative examples of phages include F10 PA73 119X PA11 M6 F8 PA7 PA16 SD1 M phiCTX D3112 B3 phiKMV PaP2 PaP3 D3 F116 and phiKZ. Characteristics of these phages can be found in Kwan T. et al. 2006 188 1184 1187.

Other phages tethered to a surface include phages are present in or isolated from raw sewage. Illustrative examples include phages that such as those included in a cocktail published by Fu et al. 2010 44 illustratively M4 a typing phage from Colindale Laboratories E2005 24 39 E2005 40 16 W2005 24 39 2005 37 18 03 all isolated from raw sewage at a local wastewater treatment plant .

Phages include those that are obligately lytic i.e. do not result in lysogeny . Illustrative examples of obligately lytic phages include Paer4 Paer14 and 109 a typing phage from Colindale Laboratories for . Illustrative phages infecting illustratively include Pmir1 Pmir32 Pmir34 Pmir37.

Illustrative phages infecting other uropathogens include those infecting KP1 PRE1 and PRE2 CK1 EC1 and EC2 .

It is well known to those of skill in the art that bacteriophages are present in the excretions of various animals including livestock for example cattle and the like pets for example dogs cats birds and the like poultry for example chickens and the like and in sewage and that bacteriophages can be isolated from these sources. Additionally many of those skilled in the art maintain collections of bacteriophages with known specificities for certain species or strains of bacteria.

It is appreciated that any kind of bacteriophage can be employed regardless of their source as long as the bacteriophages have appropriate specificity for target bacteria for example species such as and the coagulase negative staphylococci for example species such as . In other words there may be employed any bacteriophages that can achieve the objects of the present disclosure by infecting and in certain embodiments lysing specific target host bacteria. Phages that produce depolymerase enzymes which can effectively hydrolyze degrade the extracellular portion of the biofilm are examples of phages used in the invention.

For example members of the Myoviridae morphotype A1 family of bacteriophages such as A EW K Ph5 Ph9 Ph 10 Ph13 P1 P2 P3 P4 P8 P9 P 10 RG S syn Sb 1 S3K Twort SK311 812 06 40 58 119 130 131 200 and 1623 the Siphoviridae morphotype B2 family of bacteriophages such as AC3 A8 A10 A13 b594n D HK2 N9 N15 P52 P87 S1 S6 Z pRE 3A 3B 3C 6 7 16 21 42B 42C 42E 44 47 47A 47C 51 54 54 1 70 73 75 78 81 82 88 93 94 101 105 110 115 129 16 174 594n 1363 14 2460 and NN and the Siphoviridae morphotype B1 family of bacteriophages such as AC1 AC2 A6 C A9 C b CA 1 CA 2 CA 3 CA 4 CA 5 D11 L39 35 L54a M42 N1 N2 N3 N4 N5 N7 N8 N10 N11 N12 N13 N14 N16 Ph6 Ph12 Ph14 UC 18 U4 U15 S1 S2 S3 S4 S5 X2 Z B5 2 D 11 syn 11 syn P11 M15 15 28 28A 29 31 31B 37 42D syn P42D 44A 48 51 52 52A syn P52A 52B 53 55 69 71 syn P71 71A 72 75 76 77 79 80 80 82 82A 83A 84 85 86 88 88A 89 90 92 95 96 102 107 108 111 129 26 130 130A 155 157 157A 165 187 275 275A 275B 356 456 459 471 471A 489 581 676 898 1139 1154A 1259 1314 1380 1405 1563 2148 2638A 2638B 2638C 2731 2792A 2792B 2818 2835 2848A 3619 5841 and 12100 infect species see for example The Bacteriophage Ecology Group web site .

Additionally members of the Siphoviridae morphotype B1 family of bacteriophages such as af A7 B3 B33 B39 B1 1 C22 D3 D37 D40 D62 D3112 F7 F10 g gd ge gf Hw12 Jb19 KF1 L OXN 32P 06N 52P PCH 1 PC13 1 PC35 1 PH2 PH51 PH93 PH132 PMW PM13 PM57 PM61 PM62 PM63 PM69 PM105 PM113 PM681 PM682 PO4 PP1 PP4 PP5 PP64 PP65 PP66 PP71 PP86 PP88 PP92 PP401 PP711 PP891 Pssy41 Pssy42 Pssy403 Pssy404 Pssy420 Pssy923 PS4 PS 10 Pz SD1 SL1 SL3 SL5 SM C5 C11 C11 1 C13 C15 MO X 04 11 240 2 2F 5 7m 11 13 13 441 14 20 24 40 45 49 61 73 148 160 198 218 222 236 242 246 249 258 269 295 297 309 318 342 350 351 357 1 400 1 and NN the Podoviridae morphotype C1 family of bacteriophages such as A856 B26 C1 1 C1 2 C5 D gh 1 F116 HF H90 K K K104 K109 K166 K267 N N O6N 25P PE69 Pf PPN25 PPN35 PPN89 PPN91 PP2 PP3 PP4 PP6 PP7 PP8 PP56 PP87 PP114 PP206 PP207 PP306 PP651 Psp231a Pssy401 Pssy9220 ps PTB2 PTB20 PTB42 PX1 PX3 PX10 PX12 PX14 PYO70 PYO71 R SH6 SH133 tf Ya Ya BS Kf77 MC mnF82 PLS27 PLS743 S 1 1 2 2 3 4 5 6 7 7 8 9 10 11 12 12B 13 14 15 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 20 21 21 22 23 23 24 25 31 53 73 119x 145 147 170 267 284 308 525 and NN and the Myoviridae morphotype A1 family of bacteriophages such as AI 1 AI 2 B17 B89 CB3 Col 2 Col 11 Col 18 Col 21 C154 C163 C167 C2121 E79 F8 ga gb H22 K M4 N Nu PB 1 syn PB 1 pf16 PMN17 PP1 PP8 Psa1 PsP1 PsP2 PsP3 PsP4 PsP5 PS3 PS17 PTB80 PX4 PX7 PYO1 PYO2 PYO5 PYO6 PYO9 PYO10 PYO13 PYO14 PYO16 PYO18 PYO19 PYO20 PYO29 PYO32 PYO33 PYO35 PYO36 PYO37 PYO38 PYO39 PYO41 PYO42 PYO45 PYO47 PYO48 PYO64 PYO69 PYO103 P1K SLP1 SL2 S UNL 1 wy Ya Ya Ya BE CTX C17 KZ syn KZ LT mu78 NZ PLS 1 ST 1 W 14 2 1 72 2 79 3 3 DO 4 237 5 406 6C 6 6660 7 7v 7 184 8 280 9 95 10 502 11 DE 12 100 12S 16 21 24 25F 27 31 44 68 71 95 109 188 337 352 1214 and NN infect species for example see for example The Bacteriophage Ecology Group web site .

For example members of the Podoviridae morphotype C3 family of bacteriophages such as C2 C2F E3 and E62 members of the PODOVIRIDAE morphotype C1 family of bacteriophages such as D1 SB24 2BV 182 and 225 members of the Myoviridae morphotype A1 family of bacteriophages such as DF F1 F2 1 2 4 14 41 and 867 and members of the Siphoviridae morphotype B1 family of bacteriophages such as DS96 H24 M35 P3 P9 SB101 S2 2BII 5 182a 705 873 881 940 1051 1057 21096C and NN infect species see for example The Bacteriophage Ecology Group web site listing phages operable herein .

Screening of Bacteriophages to determine bacterial specificity and the ability to selectively lyse pathogenic bacteria can be carried out by a number of methods well known to those of skill in the art. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 322 783. 

In some embodiments phage isolates are free of toxin genes. Optionally phages are obligately lytic nontransducing and effective at inhibiting growth and biofilm formation by pathogenic bacteria and are unable to infect non pathogenic and or potentially beneficial microflora.

Bacteriophage incorporating medical devices optionally inhibit biofilm formation for a prolonged period of time such as at least twenty four hours. In particular implementations the bacteriophage incorporating medical devices inhibit biofilm formation for at least about a week such as at least about thirty days such as at least about a year.

Various embodiments are methods that are useful for inhibiting formation of a bacterial biofilm on a surface of a medical device such as an indwelling medical device. In some embodiments the method includes contacting the surface of a medical device with an effective amount of a composition comprising one or more bacteriophages that inhibit formation of a bacterial biofilm prior to or following formation of the biofilm. In specific non limiting examples the bacteriophage is a lytic bacteriophage. The bacteriophage optionally inhibits formation of biofilm by target bacteria such as staphylococci that are capable of forming a staphylococcal bacterial biofilm. Exemplary bacterial biofilms prevented by the methods and devices of the invention include but are not limited to those produced by or related to the presence of spp. spp. coagulase negative spp. and spp. In some embodiments the method includes tethering a phage composition to the surface of a medical device whereby the phages are bioactive and capable of inhibiting formation of a bacterial biofilm optionally prior to formation of the biofilm.

Bacteriophages are optionally attached or adhered to a surface of a medical device that is coated with a material such as a gel for example a hydrogel or polymeric natural or synthetic matrix to which the bacteriophages are tethered. In some embodiments the coating includes a surfactant an antibacterial enzyme an antibiotic a growth or activity enhancing agent or combinations thereof. Specific non limiting examples of the antibiotic include for example a beta lactam a cephalosporin an aminoglycoside a sulfonamide a macrolide a tetracycline a silver salt alloy or nanoformulation such as nano silver formulation s elemental silver antibiotics disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 579 539 combinations thereof or others known in the art. A growth or activity enhancing agent includes divalent metal cations such as Ca or Mg.

In some embodiments the medical device includes a surface having a coating such as a viscous gel or material capable of forming a viscous gel to which a bacteriophage composition may be tethered such as a gel that includes free hydroxyl groups on the gel surface. In some embodiments the medical device is coated with a hydrogel. Optionally the medical device is pre coated with the tetherable coating while in other implementations the embodiment includes coating the medical device with a viscous gel such as a hydrogel or material capable of forming a viscous gel.

In a specific disclosed example the medical device is suitable for surgical implantation within the body of a subject and is introduced into the body of a subject. Such medical devices illustratively include indwelling medical devices for example a catheter a stent a shunt an endotracheal tube a gastric feeding tube an artificial joint an artificial heart valve an intrauterine device an artificial voice prosthesis a tympanostomy tube a needleless connector for a central venous catheter or a pacemaker. More specific examples include intravascular catheters such as a central venous line and intraurethral catheters such as a bladder catheter which are sometimes left in place for days or weeks.

A medical device optionally includes a lumen which is often the site of bacterial biofilm occlusion and or infection. The medical device is optionally a catheter and the bacteriophage composition is tethered within the lumen to the external surfaces of the catheter or both. A bacteriophage is optionally present in the lumen or on the external surfaces of the catheter prior to insertion of the catheter into a subject. Alternatively or in addition a bacteriophage composition is present in the lumen or a portion of the catheter only after insertion of the catheter into a subject.

The medical device bearing tethered bacteriophage s is capable of preventing biofilm formation after being inserted into the body of a subject or associated with a surface body part of a subject e.g. wound burn or other area in need and coated with substances in the body of the subject. Illustratively the substances that coat the medical device are platelets plasma or host proteins such as albumin fibrinogen fibronectin and laminin.

Methods of forming a phage tethered medical device are provided. A surface of the medical device is optionally coated with a material coating including one or more hydrogels natural or synthetic polymer films networks matrices sol gels silica based coatings and any material coating presenting pendant groups amenable to functionalization. One or more bacteriophages are tethered onto the outer surface of the viscous material. The bacteriophages are appreciated as not releasably tethered such as by covalent interaction with active groups on the surface of the device or coating material.

Methods for introducing an indwelling medical device into the body of a subject that include surface tethered bacteriophage are provided. In some embodiments a medical device coated with material that has surface tethered bacteriophage is provided. The medical device is then introduced into the body of the subject. In some embodiments the coating is a polymeric film or matrix such as a hydrogel. The medical device optionally remains in the body of the subject for a prolonged period of time such as at least twenty four hours such as at least a week. In particular examples the medical device remains in the body of the subject for at least thirty days such as at least a year.

Surfaces of a medical device such as a surface prone to bacterial biofilm formation can be subjected to the methods of the present disclosure as a preventative measure prior to any biofilm formation to substantially avoid biofilm formation. Alternatively at the first indication of biofilm formation the methods may be used to prevent further biofilm formation and to remove the biofilm that has become deposited on a surface. Furthermore in situations where there is a heavy build up of biofilm on a surface the methods may be used to reduce the level of biofilm or to remove it partially or completely.

Medical devices amenable to tethering to bacteriophage compositions have at least one active or activatable group exposed on the surface of the device or a coating thereon. Illustrative examples of active or activatable groups include hydroxyl amine carboxyl nitrile thioester sulfhydryl aldehyde or other functional groups. Illustrative device surfaces include those composed of thermoplastic or polymeric materials such as polyethylene polyethylene terephthalate PET polyamides polyesters polytetrafluoroethylene polyurethane latex silicone elastomers among others. Additionally devices composed of natural materials such as collagen and hyaluronic acid could be modified. The surfaces of the device are optionally smooth or rough for example a smooth polymeric surface of a catheter lumen or a relatively rough PET patch for repairing an abdominal or vascular defect. Indwelling medical devices with metallic surfaces are also amenable to tethering to bacteriophage compositions. Such devices for example bone and joint prosthesis can be coated and tethered to a bacteriophage composition. During implant use the bacteriophages remain bioactive and capable of lysing bacteria that may otherwise produce a significant biofilm. Particular indwelling medical devices illustratively include intravascular peritoneal pleural and urological catheters heart valves gastric feeding tubes endotracheal tubes tympanostomy tubes intrauterine devices artificial voice prostheses prosthetic joints stents needleless connectors for central venous catheters cardiac pacemakers vascular shunts and orthopedic intraocular or penile prosthesis.

Particular examples of medical devices to which phage are tethered include Bard hydrogel coated silicone Foley type catheters Lubri Sil which are extensively used clinically. The Bard Lubri Sil catheter has a covalently attached polyurethane matrix that is cross linked with a poly ethylene glycol PEG hydrogel 50 . Phage are tethered to hydroxyl groups present on the surface of the PEG hydrogel.

Various methods can be employed to tether a surface of an indwelling medical device to a bacteriophage composition. For example one of the simplest methods is to flush the surfaces of the medical device with a solution of the bacteriophage composition. Generally treating the surfaces by a simple flushing technique would require convenient access to the medical device. For example catheters are generally amenable to flushing with a solution containing the bacteriophage compositions disclosed herein. For use in flushing solutions high titer for example 1 10PFU ml or higher bacteriophage stocks are used. The flushing solution would normally be composed of sterile normal saline solutions. The bacteriophage composition may also be painted or sprayed on the medical device. In particular implementations the medical device is dipped or immersed in the composition.

In some embodiments tethering of bacteriophage is performed using NPC chemistry 48 49 . Illustratively phage is tethered to a medical device surface using 4 nitrophenyl chloroformate NPC chemistry 51 52 to activate OH groups in the surface of a PEG hydrogel and covalently link amines present on the proteinaceous phage surface to the PEG via urethane linkages. Other tethering chemistries are possible including EDC NHS and Michael type additions.

In some embodiments a medical device is pre coated with a polymeric layer. Exemplary components of a polymeric layer include but are not limited to polylactic acid polyglycolic acid and copolymers and mixtures thereof such as poly L lactide PLLA poly D L lactide PLA polyglycolic acid polyglycolide PGA poly L lactide co D L lactide PLLA PLA poly L lactide co glycolide PLLA PGA poly D L lactide co glycolide PLA PGA poly glycolide cotrimethylene carbonate PGA PTMC poly D L lactide co caprolactone PLA PCL poly glycolide co caprolactone PGA PCL polyethylene oxide PEO polydioxanone PDS polypropylene fumarate poly ethyl glutamate co glutamic acid poly tert butyloxy carbonylmethyl glutamate polycaprolactone PCL polycaprolactone co butylacrylate polyhydroxybutyrate PHBT and copolymers of polyhydroxybutyrate poly phosphazene poly phosphate ester poly amino acid and poly hydroxy butyrate polydepsipeptides maleic anhydride copolymers polyphosphazenes polyiminocarbonates poly 97.5 dimethyl trimethylene carbonate co 2.5 trimethylene carbonate cyanoacrylate polyethylene oxide hydroxypropylmethylcellulose polysaccharides such as hyaluronic acid chitosan and regenerate cellulose and proteins such as gelatin and collagen and mixtures and copolymers thereof among others.

Furthermore the bacteriophage compositions can be tethered to a surface of a medical device simultaneously or alternately with other agents such as antibacterial agents so as to more effectively inhibit bacterial biofilm formation or alternatively prevent further biofilm formation or to remove the biofilm that has become deposited on a surface. For example the bacteriophage compositions optionally includes a surfactant an antibacterial enzyme an antibiotic a growth or activity enhancing agent or combinations thereof.

Exemplary surfactants include biosurfactants such as glycolipids lipopeptides depsipeptides phospholipids substituted fatty acids lipopolysaccharides surlactin surfactin visconsin and rhamnolipids sodium dodecyl sulfate quaternary ammonium compounds alkyl pyridinium iodides Tween 80 Tween 85 Triton X 100 and the like. Exemplary antibacterial enzymes are a lytic enzyme an acylase an aminopeptidase an amylase a carbohydrase a carboxypeptidase a catalase a cellulase a chitinase a cutinase a cyclodextrin glycosyltransferase a deoxyribonuclease an esterase an alpha galactosidase a beta galactosidase a glucoamylase an alpha glucosidase a beta glucosidase a haloperoxidase an invertase a laccase a lipase a mannosidase an oxidase a pectinolytic enzyme a peptidoglutaminase a peroxidase a phytase a polyphenoloxidase a polysaccharide depolymerase a proteolytic enzyme a ribonuclease a transglutaminase a xylanase and lysostaphin. Examples of antibiotics include antibiotics that interfere with or inhibit cell wall synthesis such as penicillin nafcillin oxacillin and other beta lactam antibiotics cephalosporins such as cephalothin glycopeptides such as vancomycin and other polypeptides. In particular examples the growth or activity enhancing agent is a divalent metal cation such as Ca or Mg.

Coatings for the surface of medical devices illustratively include various hydrogel and polymeric coatings. One or more bacteriophages are optionally tethered to the hydrogel surface after the hydrogel is applied to the medical device. Illustrative examples of hydrogels include organic coatings formed by applying a mixture of an isocyanate a polyol polyvinylpyrrolidone and a carrier to the surface of a medical device as discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 160 790. Silane copolymers are optionally used to form suitably coated medical devices. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 908 681 discloses silane copolymers formed by reacting one or more polyisocyanates a silane and molecules having at least two functional groups that are reactive with isocyanate. U.S. Pat. No. 6 596 402 discusses medical device coatings formed by contacting the medical device with a copolymer including an organic group that reacts with water to form a silanol group. Suitable hydrogel coated catheters illustratively include Lubri Sil catheters available from C. R. Bard Inc. of Covington Ga.

In some embodiments the hydrogel coating of the medical device includes an antimicrobial agent or another antibiotic such as silver. Suitable catheters having a hydrogel coating that includes an antimicrobial agent illustratively include the Bardex catheters available from C.R. Bard Inc. that incorporate the Bacti Guard silver antimicrobial agent. Optional coatings that include a fast acting antimicrobial agent and a long lasting antimicrobial agent are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 579 539.

Various aspects of the present invention are illustrated by the following non limiting examples. The examples are for illustrative purposes and are not a limitation on any practice of the present invention. It will be understood that variations and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Reagents illustrated herein are commercially available and a person of ordinary skill in the art readily understands where such reagents may be obtained.

Phage are selected and propagated by standard techniques illustratively as described by 54 and in Carlson K. 2005 p. 437 494 in E. Kutter and A. Sulakvelidze ed. Bacteriophages Biology and Applications. CRC Press New York. In one example 414 HER 1292 F lix d H relle Reference Center for Bacterial Viruses are maintained at 80 C. Coagulase negative phage 456 Dean et al. 71 261 270 1973 obtained from Health Protection Agency Colindale UK is maintained as a lyophilized preparation stored at 4 C. The phage is propagated using the soft agar overlay technique Adams M. Interscience Publishers London 1959 Gratia A. 122 812 1936 and crude high titer phage broth cultures are prepared as described by Adams Adams M. Interscience Publishers London 1959 using 414 as the host strain in Mueller Hinton Broth MHB Difco Becton Dickinson Sparks Md. containing 3 mM MgCland 4 mM CaCl added as MgCl.6HO and CaCl.2HO . One ml of an 18 h culture of 414 in MHB cultured at 37 C. is added to 49 ml of MHB containing 3 mM MgCland 4 mM CaCl. This is incubated at 37 C. with shaking at 250 revolutions per minute and the OD600 monitored until an absorbance of 0.3 is reached Spectronic 21D Spectrophotometer Spectronic Instruments Inc. Rochester N.Y. . Phage 456 is added to a final concentration of 10 10plaque forming units ml PFU ml . The culture is allowed to stand for 15 min at 37 C. and then incubated for 18 h at 37 C. with shaking at 100 rpm. Host cell debris is pelleted by centrifugation 4000 g for 20 min and the supernatant containing phage filter sterilized Millipore Billerica Mass. 0.22 m pore size . The crude phage lysate is titered by plaque assay using the soft agar overlay technique on Mueller Hinton agar MHA Adams M. Interscience Publishers London 1959 Gratia A. 122 812 1936 stored at 4 C. and used within a week. The phage are optionally purified by one or more techniques known in the art such as density gradient centrifugation e.g. cesium chloride or sucrose DEAE cellulose chromatography or chromatography using monolithic columns for HPLC 67 i.e. anion or cation exchange columns .

Purified phage or combinations of phages are analyzed for their ability to inhibit planktonic growth of uropathogenics in a planktonic growth assay. Phages Pmir1 Pmir32 Pmir34 Pmir37 Paer4 Paer14 M4 and 109 are prepared as above. A minimum inhibitory concentration assay is developed whereby individual wells of a 96 well plate are used to assay phage viability. Wells are inoculated 2 10CFU of or in 25 TSB. The bacteria are incubated at 37 C. for 2 hours. A titration of individual phage are added individually to wells of the plate in a titration from 0 control or phage amounts from 1 10to 1 10PFU ml and incubated with the bacteria for 6 hours at 37 C. Following incubation the amount of viable bacterial are determined by absorbance 600 nm to access bacterial growth in the presence of phage. illustrates the ability of different phage strains to inhibit growth of . illustrates the ability of different phage strains to inhibit growth of . The results indicate that individual phages are able to inhibit growth of more than one bacterial strain of a given species. Also a mixture of a few phages is able to prevent planktonic growth of all but multiple and host strains. Minimum initial phage concentrations required for control are as low as 5 10PFU mL highest tested was 5 10PFU mL and data suggest that the more difficult to control bacterial strains could be achieved with 1 10PFU ml .

Lubri Sil all silicone French Foley catheters are used C. R. Bard Covington Ga. . Optionally Lubri Cath latex catheters or Lubri Sil I.C. silicone catheters with silver C. R. Bard Covington Ga. are used. Lubri Sil catheters are formed from hydrogel coated silicone Lubri Cath catheters are formed from hydrogel coated latex and Lubri Sil I.C. catheters are formed from hydrogel coated silicone with silver alloy. Each catheter has a surface attached polyurethane matrix that is cross linked with a poly ethylene glycol PEG hydrogel 50 . Hydrogel coatings on catheters are activated with 4 nitrophenyl chloroformate NPC 23 mM in THF or acetone such as described in 48 53 . NPC activation of the hydrogel does not in itself affect bacterial adhesion. Residual NPC is removed by rinsing in THF or acetone. Residual THF or acetone is removed by rinsing in purified water. The activated surface is then incubated with bacteriophage diluted to 1 10PFU mlor higher in PBS for at least 30 min to allow phage tethering via primary amines. Residual activated NPC sites without bound phage are quenched in 20 mM glycine to block further reactive groups. Non tethered phages are removed through additional washing steps including but not limited to sonication and rinsing in any of wash solutions including buffers such as PBS or PBS with at least 0.9 M NaCl AUM or at least 1 solutions of anionic cationic zwitterionic or nonionic detergents such as Tween 20 Triton X 100 N lauroylsarcosine 3 3 cholamidopropyl dimethylammonio 1 propanesulfonate sodium deoxycholate cetyltrimethylammonium bromide octyl glucoside. Following phage tethering rinsing recovers fewer free residual phages from catheters with tethered phages than from those with passively adsorbed phages indicating covalent attachment of phages via the tethering reaction. The density of tethered phages is readily controlled by modifying the concentration of phage suspension. Other methods of binding protein to PEG hydrogels are found in D Urso and Fortier 1994 8 71 76.

The tethering is repeated using purified phage labeled with AlexaFluor 555 dye and tethered onto Lubri Sil urinary catheter segments using NPC chemistry as described above. The density of tethered phages as a function of coating concentration is determined using quantitative microscopy essentially as described 55 .

The phage tethered hydrogel coated catheters of Example 2 are cut into 1 cmsegments. Control groups include i unmodified catheter ii unactivated catheters no NPC treatment exposed to bacteriophage solution and iii activated catheters coated with heat inactivated phage. The presence of viable tethered phages is determined by placing phage treated and control catheter segments on a lawn of bacteria. As shown in specifically tethered or phage retain infectivity and lytic activity as demonstrated by the presence of the telltale halo indicating bacterial lysis. Similarly treated catheter segments are placed into 3 ml AUM containing approximately 3 10CFU ml bacteria and incubated in shaking culture at 37 C. for 12 h. As shown in significantly less biofilm develops on catheter segments presenting tethered phage than on unmodified Lubri Sil hydrogel coated silicone Lubri Cath hydrogel coated latex and Lubri Sil I.C. hydrogel coated silicone with silver alloy catheters.

In additional experiments a conditioning film is simulated on the catheter lumen to assess its affect on biofilm formation and phage effectiveness. Filter sterilized whole human serum complement inactivated at 56 C. for 30 min is instilled into both phage tethered and untreated control catheter segment lumens in a Drip Flow Reactor mDFR Biosurface Technologies 43 44 and incubated for 2 h at 37 C. The presence of the serum conditioning film is confirmed by fluorescent microscopy. Catheter segments incubated with serum are cut in segments as above. The segments are washed with sterile PBS three times 1 min per wash incubated with 3 bovine serum albumin at 37 C. for 1 h to prevent non specific binding and rewashed three times in PBS. The segments are then incubated with goat anti human IgG H L fluorescein isothiocyanate FITC conjugate Zymed Laboratories San Francisco Calif. for 1 h at room temperature and washed three times in sterile PBS. Catheter segments not coated with serum are used as controls. All catheter segments are examined using a Zeiss Axioplan 2 Imaging Fluorescent Microscope 10 20 and 100 objective lenses Carl Zeiss Light Microscopy G ttingen Germany with a FITC filter filter set 41001 excitation filter 480 40 emission filter 535 50 m dichroic mirror 505 nm Chroma Technology Corp. Rockingham Vt. . Samples are photographed using a Zeiss Axiocam high resolution digital camera Carl Zeiss Light Microscopy G ttingen Germany . Images are analyzed using Axiovision 4.0 software Carl Zeiss Vision M nchen Hallbergmoos Germany . Both test catheter segments and control segments are photographed using the same exposure time.

The phage tethered hydrogel coated catheters of Example 2 are compared to catheters including coatings with adsorbed phage contained within the coating material of U.S. Patent Publication No. US 2009 0191254 A1 and corresponding International Publication No. WO 2006 063176. Comparisons are made using the methods of Example 3.

As is illustrated in in batch culture experiments tethered phage KP1 and tethered phage PRE1 each reduce biofilm development on 16 Fr. Lubri Sil catheter pieces more than passively adsorbed phages of catheters prepared as in US 2009 0191254 A1. Data are mean CFU cm standard error. Significant differences are indicated by asterisks P

Biofilms are grown on catheters in a modified Drip Flow Reactor mDFR Biosurface Technologies 43 44 or similar catheter immobilizing device. The device is composed of four separate chambers each with a sealing lid. The original device is modified to allow the connection of catheter segments of any lumen size to influent and effluent ports within the device. Before each experiment the device containing the catheters is sterilized using ethylene oxide gas. The mDFR is coupled to a batch culture of or phage in Artificial Urine Medium AUM and a sterile medium reservoir containing half strength AUM. The culture is pumped through the mDFR for 2 h 1 ml min irrigating the catheter segments attached inside for initial bacterial adhesion. The mean CFU per ml of the batch culture is approximately 10during this during this 2 h period. This is followed by irrigation for 22 94 h with sterile AUM 0.5 ml min to establish a biofilm. Catheters are collected after several of 2 6 24 48 72 and 96 hours after bacterial inoculation. Optionally bacterial exposure is preceded by prolonged exposure e.g. 15 h to sterile AUM 1 ml min . All mDFR experiments are carried out at 35 C. in triplicate.

Following exposure to biofilm forming organisms the catheter is cut into smaller sections each with an internal curved surface area of approximately 1 cm. For example a catheter of 16 Fr size produces an internal surface area of 0.94 cm. Three of these sections are sliced vertically into two halves and each halved section washed gently in 5 ml phosphate buffered saline PBS 7.2 pH to remove planktonic and loosely adherent cells. Individual sections are subjected to high speed vortexing in 5 ml PBS for 15 s followed by sonication for 10 min at 42 kHz Branson 2510 Branson Danbury Conn. further vortexing for 15 s sonication for 5 min and a final vortexing for 15 s. Earlier studies indicated that the process removed essentially all of the viable cells from the surface of the catheter and that sonication is not associated with loss of viability of the cells in suspension data not shown . In each experiment the viable bacterial counts for the three 1 cmsections of catheter are established and the mean viable count expressed as CFU cm is determined.

Phages in the luminal fluid of catheter samples are quantified prior to catheter processing using the soft agar overlay method 54 . Detection of lytic phage in the luminal fluid indicates phage infection and replication in biofilm cells. When bacterial adhesion is preceded by 15 h of sterile AUM flow and catheters are tested after this washout period but before bacterial adhesion fewer free viable phages are recovered from the luminal fluid of catheters with tethered phages vs. non tethered passively adsorbed phages indicating that covalent tethering to NPC modified hydrogels is occurring phage titers in luminal fluid collected at later time points show that this does not adversely affect later replication of the tethered phages. Biofilm development is assessed by viable counts and fluorescence microscopy. For viable count data catheter segments are processed using standardized protocols to recover biofilm organisms and organisms from the biofilms are quantified by the plate count procedure 43 44 using TSA or using Isolation Agar BD Bioscience and C1 agar 56 which are selective for and respectively. Counts are expressed as colony forming units per cmof catheter lumen surface. All experiments are performed a minimum of three times. Bacterial and phage counts are log transformed and differences in microbial recovery are analyzed using ANOVA. The results indicate that phage tethered to surfaces are active and can reduce biofilm development in the catheter lumen by 2 to 5 orders of magnitude over the first 24 h.

For microscopy analyses additional catheter segments are retained prior to processing for viable count. Biofilm organisms are fixed and stained with DAPI or processed immediately with BacLight LIVE DEAD stain and examined using a confocal microscope. Parameters such as surface coverage and total biomass are analyzed using the COMSTAT program 57 round segments of each sampled catheter are punched out and affixed to glass slides for microscopic examination. The experiments demonstrate that the presence of tethered phage reduces the amount of biofilm organisms adhered to the surface of the catheter.

A rabbit subcutaneous model of device related infection is used to determine the effectiveness of phage tethered catheters is performed essentially as described 58 59 60 61 . The phage tethered catheters of Example 2 are pre incubated with bacteria 10CFU incubation for 2 hours as in Example 4 prior to implantation because previous work demonstrated that this approach resulted in established biofilms compared to biomaterials co implanted with bacteria 58 59 62 . A general experimental design is illustrated in Table 1 

The phage tethered catheters are implanted in subcutaneous pockets created by blunt dissection in the backs of New Zealand White rabbits 2 kg . Each rabbit receives 2 implants for each experimental group for a given bacteria 6 implants animal . No systemic antibiotics are administered. Rabbits are euthanized at 3 7 and 14 days post implantation. These time points are selected based on published results with this model of device related infection 58 59 and provide different time points to examine the evolution of the biofilm. Biofilm colonization and growth are evaluated using the standard methods described above. Each catheter sample is divided into segments for 1 microscopic immunohistochemical analyses of biofilm and host inflammatory responses leukocyte recruitment and scanning electron microscopy and 2 analyses of viable bacterial counts by recovering and quantifying biofilm by the plate count procedure. Finally colonies cultured from surface attached biofilms if any are identified using the Vitek II bacterial identification system to verify that any bacteria remaining on implants at retrieval are the same as those used in the initial contamination.

Based on the in vitro studies of Examples 2 5 phages covalently tethered onto hydrogel coatings on urinary catheter segments are expected to significantly reduce biofilm formation compared to controls in this animal model of device related infection.

Self assembled monolayers of alkanethiols presenting non fouling PEG and COOH anchoring groups are used as a model biomaterial. Petrie T A Capadona J R Reyes C D Garcia A J 2006 27 31 5459 70. This system provides a robust and simple system to quantify ligand tethered densities and activities. In this experiment the COOH anchoring groups are activated with NHS EDC and incubated with a partially purified suspension of one highly concentrated phage to allow phage tethering via primary amines. Residual active sites are quenched with glycine and the samples are sonicated briefly and repeatedly rinsed in PBS to remove loosely associated phages. The biomaterials are placed active side down on a soft agar layer seeded with and incubated overnight at 37 C. Biomaterials that have tethered phage display the halo characteristic of bacterial lysis whereas the control sample with no tethered phage showed no evidence of lysis . These results demonstrate that tethered phages retain their ability to infect and lyse host bacteria.

Various modifications of the present invention in addition to those shown and described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art of the above description. Such modifications are also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

It is appreciated that all reagents are obtainable by sources known in the art unless otherwise specified.

Patents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. Some publications are mentioned with a numeral enclosed in brackets and are directed to the relevant reference number presented in the enclosed Reference List. All patents and publications referred to herein are incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual application or publication was specifically and individually incorporated herein by reference.

The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims including all equivalents thereof define the scope of the invention.

