---

title: System and method for chart pattern recognition and analysis in an electronic trading environment
abstract: A system and method are provided for chart pattern recognition and analysis. In one embodiment, a graphical interface is provided to enable a trader to select a portion of a chart to be used in the chart pattern analysis. The pattern of the selected portion of the chart could then be used to find one or more similar chart patterns in a user-defined timeframe, such as any future time period or a time period in the past. When a reoccurring chart pattern is found in any future time period, an alert signal can be generated to alert a user of a possibility of the chart pattern reoccurrence. Alternatively, chart pattern matches can be found in a time period in the past, and a set of studies can be applied to the found matches to generate a set of reoccurring indicator values. The reoccurring indicator values can be used in combination with the chart pattern to detect any similar chart patterns in the future.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08370240&OS=08370240&RS=08370240
owner: Trading Technologies International, Inc.
number: 08370240
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120619
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 975 921 filed Dec. 22 2010 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 239 301 entitled System and Method for Chart Pattern Recognition and Analysis in an Electronic Trading Environment which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 697 766 filed Feb. 1 2010 entitled System and Method for Chart Pattern Recognition and Analysis in an Electronic Trading Environment now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 882 002 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 417 933 filed May 3 2006 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 685 042 entitled System and Method for Chart Pattern Recognition and Analysis in an Electronic Trading Environment which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 882 594 filed Jun. 30 2004 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 599 867 entitled System and Method for Chart Pattern Recognition and Analysis in an Electronic Trading Environment the contents of which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed to chart analysis. More specifically the present invention is directed to chart pattern recognition and analysis in an electronic trading environment.

An exchange is a central marketplace with established rules and regulations where buyers and sellers meet to trade. Some exchanges referred to as open outcry exchanges operate using a trading floor where buyers and sellers physically meet on the floor to trade. Other exchanges referred to as electronic exchanges operate by an electronic or telecommunications network instead of a trading floor to facilitate trading in an efficient versatile and functional manner. Electronic exchanges have made it possible for an increasing number of people to actively participate in a market at any given time. The increase in the number of potential market participants has advantageously led to among other things a more competitive market and greater liquidity.

With respect to electronic exchanges buyers and sellers may log onto an electronic exchange trading platform by way of a communication link through their user terminals. Once connected buyers and sellers may typically choose which tradeable objects they wish to trade. As used herein the term tradeable object refers to anything that can be traded with a quantity and or price. It includes but is not limited to all types of traded events goods and or financial products which can include for example stocks options bonds futures currency and warrants as well as funds derivatives and collections of the foregoing and all types of commodities such as grains energy and metals. The tradeable object may be real such as products that are listed by an exchange for trading or synthetic such as a combination of real products that is created by the user. A tradeable object could actually be a combination of other tradeable objects such as a class of tradeable objects.

Every day there are thousands of traders buying and selling for many different reasons such as for example fear of loss hope of gain hedging broker recommendations and many others. To profit in electronic markets market participants must be able to assimilate large amounts of data in order to recognize market trends and to view current market conditions. However trying to figure out why market participants are buying or selling can be very difficult. Chart patterns may put buying and selling activities into perspective by providing a concise picture of the two activities as a tool to analyze markets.

Identifying chart patterns is a form of what is often referred to as technical analysis based on an assumption that market trends repeat themselves. Technical analysis consist primarily of a variety of technical studies which when interpreted are used by many traders to predict market trends and detect buy sell signals. A trend is a direction in which the market is moving and a slope of a trend line can be used in market analysis. Typically the movement or price development does not occur as a straight line but rather consists of a series of successive peaks and troughs and it is actually a direction in which the peaks and troughs are moving what many consider a market trend. For example an uptrend line is a straight line passing through the rising of an up move. A reversal of such a trend line is indicated with a violation of the uptrend line and is often interpreted as a selling opportunity. On the other hand as long as the uptrend line is intact it is often considered a low risk buying area. As another example the trend lines drawn parallel through the tops and bottoms result in a channel formation and the market movement to the top of an upward channel is often considered a selling opportunity.

Another use of technical analysis apart from technical studies is in deriving support and resistance levels which can be used by a trader to provide additional information about possible market movements. The general consensus is that the market will tend to trade above its support levels and below its resistance levels. For example in a falling market a support level is a price level where buyers entered the market or where old sellers liquidated their shorts with enough force to keep price from going any lower. In a rising market a resistance level is a price level where sellers entered the market or where old buyers liquidated their long positions with enough force to keep prices from going any higher. Therefore in general it is often said that that in an up trend the test to support can be used as an indicator of a buying opportunity and the same is true when a break is detected in a resistance level. On the other hand in a downtrend movement a resistance zone is considered as an indicator of a selling opportunity.

Even though there are many existing tools that enable traders to analyze market conditions using technical analysis or the like traders are often not given enough flexibility as to which portions of the market data should be taken in consideration when performing the analysis. Additionally traders are often interested in reevaluating their trading decisions in view of a specific portion of historical market data so that they can avoid mistakes made in the past or that they can develop new strategies for the future. Therefore it would be beneficial to provide a system along with a graphical interface that can be used by traders to perform technical analysis according to the trader s preferences.

The preferred embodiments are provided among other things to facilitate chart pattern recognition and analysis. In one aspect of the preferred embodiments a graphical user interface may display a chart representing market data such as traded prices or traded volume related to a tradeable object being traded at one or more exchanges. The user may then select a portion of the chart to be used in market pattern recognition and analysis. In an embodiment involving market pattern recognition once the user selects a portion of a chart a pattern recognition application may use the characteristics of the selected chart portion to search for similar chart patterns in the future. Once the similar chart pattern is detected the pattern recognition application may notify a user of the possible reoccurrence of the chart pattern so that the user can take advantage of any potential trading opportunities. It should be understood that the user could define a time period in the future to be used by the pattern recognition application to find similar chart patterns.

In another embodiment a user may wish to analyze the selected chart pattern. In such an embodiment the user could define a time period in the past and the pattern recognition application can search for similar chart patterns in the portion of the chart corresponding to the user specified time period. Once the pattern recognition application finds in the specified time period one or more chart instances having similar chart pattern characteristics to those of the chart portion selected by the user the pattern recognition application may display the found chart instances to a user. The user may then select which of the displayed chart instances will be used in the chart analysis by simply removing the chart instances that do not fit into the selected chart pattern. The chart analysis can be performed by applying a number of chart studies to the selected chart instances to determine reoccurring indicator values corresponding to the selected chart instances. In another embodiment when the pattern recognition application finds the chart instances that match the selected chart pattern the pattern recognition application may select chart portions before and after each found chart instance. In such an embodiment the chart studies that were applied to the matched chart pattern instances can be also applied to chart portions before and after each found chart instance so that a user can view indicator values that lead to the specific chart pattern and another set of indicator values that followed the chart pattern. Different embodiments are possible as well.

While the present invention is described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments for particular applications it should be understood that the present invention is not limited thereto. Other systems methods and advantages of the present embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the present embodiments may be operated in an entirely software embodiment in an entirely hardware embodiment or in a combination thereof. However for sake of illustration the preferred embodiments are described in a software based embodiment which is executed on a computer device. As such the preferred embodiments take the form of a computer program product that is stored on a computer readable storage medium and is executed by a suitable instruction system in the computer device. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including hard disks CD ROMs optical storage devices or magnetic storage devices for example.

In an electronic trading environment when a trader selects a tradeable object the trader may access market data related to the selected tradeable object s . Referring to an example communication that might occur between an electronic exchange and a client terminal in accordance with the preferred embodiments is shown. During a trading session market data in the form of messages may be relayed from a host exchange over communication links and to a client terminal generally indicated as . As illustrated in intermediate devices such as gateway s may be used to facilitate communications between the client terminal and the host exchange . It should be understood that while illustrates the client terminal communicating with a single host exchange in an alternative embodiment the client terminal could establish trading sessions to more than one host exchange.

The market data contains information that characterizes the tradeable object s order book including among other parameters order related parameters and the inside market which represents the lowest sell price also referred to as the best or lowest ask price and the highest buy price also referred to as the best or highest bid price . In some electronic markets market data may also include market depth which generally refers to quantities available for trading the tradeable object at certain buy price levels and quantities available for trading the tradeable object at certain sell price levels.

In addition to providing the tradeable object s order book information electronic exchanges can offer different types of market information such as total traded quantity for each price level an opening price last traded price last traded quantity the closing price or order fill information. It should be understood that market information provided from an electronic exchange could include more or fewer items depending on the type of tradeable object or the type of exchange. Also it should be understood that the messages provided in the market data may vary in size depending on the content carried by them and the software at the receiving end may be programmed to understand the messages and to act out certain operations.

Typically a trader may view the information provided from an exchange via one or more specialized trading screens created by software running on the client terminal . Upon viewing the market information or a portion thereof a trader may wish to take actions such as send orders to an exchange cancel orders at the exchange or change order parameters for example. To do so the trader may input various commands or signals into the client terminal . Upon receiving one or more commands or signals from the trader the client terminal may generate messages that reflect the actions taken generally shown at . It should be understood that different types of messages or order types can be submitted to the host exchange all of which may be considered various types of transaction information. Once generated user action messages may be sent from the client terminal to the host exchange over communication links and .

Preferably the charting application and the chart pattern recognition and analysis application have access to market information from one or more host exchanges through an interface such as the API . It should be understood that the charting application could be included in the chart pattern recognition and analysis application or could be a separate application such as illustrated in . When the charting application receives information from the host exchange it may arrange and display the received information on a chart that a trader may view on the visual output display device . The display device could be CRT based video displays LCD based displays gas plasma panel displays displays that show three dimensional images different display types or the combination thereof.

The charting application could also interact with a trading application not shown to keep track of trades being made by a trader. A commercially available trading application that allows a user to trade is X TRADER from Trading Technologies International Inc. of Chicago Ill. X TRADER also provides an electronic trading interface referred to as MD Trader in which working orders and or bid and ask quantities are displayed in association with a static axis of prices. However the preferred embodiments are not limited to any particular product that performs translation storage and display functions.

Portions of the X TRADER and the MD Trader style display are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 590 692 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 772 132 entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth filed on Jun. 9 2000 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 971 087 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 127 424 entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth and Price Consolidation filed on Oct. 5 2001 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 125 894 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 389 268 entitled Trading Tools for Electronic Trading filed on Apr. 19 2002 the contents of each are incorporated herein by reference.

In the embodiment where the charting application interacts with the trading application the charting application could automatically mark the chart when the trader submits orders to an exchange and or when each order is executed. It should be understood that the indicators used on the chart could be user configurable. Also in addition to automatically marking points related to the orders being submitted by the trader the charting application could also allow the trader to manually mark other points of interest on the chart so that the trader can later easily identify his points of interest. It should be understood that a trader could control what data is plotted on the chart.

The chart pattern recognition and analysis application may allow a user to select a portion of a chart to be used in the chart pattern recognition process chart analysis or both. In an embodiment involving the chart pattern recognition once a user selects a portion of a chart the chart pattern recognition and analysis application may use the characteristics of the selected chart portion to search for similar chart patterns in the future. It should be understood that a user could define a time period that should be used by the chart pattern recognition and analysis application to look for similar chart patterns. The chart pattern recognition and analysis application could use many different methods to detect similar chart patterns. One such method includes the Pearson s correlation analysis or genetic algorithms. However it should be understood that different statistical analysis could also be used for detecting similar chart patterns.

In another embodiment a user may wish to analyze the selected chart pattern. In such an embodiment the user could define a time period in the past and the chart pattern recognition and analysis application can search for similar chart patterns in the user defined time frame. Once the chart pattern recognition and analysis application finds chart instances having similar chart pattern characteristics to those of the user selected chart portion the found matches can be displayed to a user. The user can then make the final determination which of the found matches will be used in the chart analysis. Once the selection is made the chart pattern recognition and analysis application can analyze the chart portions by applying a number of chart studies to the selected chart matches. For example a chart study may look for common values of one or more technical indicators that have occurred during the time periods corresponding to the selected chart matches the examples of which will be described in greater detail below.

The display devices could be CRT based video displays LCD based displays gas plasma panel displays displays that shows three dimensional images or different display types. Also the display device could be a combination of separate display devices that can together create a composition in the user s visual field such as a head mounted monocular see through display that holds the chart or study results that is used together with another display that holds another interface such as a trading interface. The chart application may also receive input signals from a trader via input devices . Example input devices may include a mouse a keyboard a game pad or a stylus in the systems using touch screen display devices. However different input devices could also be used. As mentioned in reference to the preceding paragraph the input signals received from a user may include an input selecting one or more chart portions to be used by the pattern recognition application for analysis.

The operating system may be used to manage hardware and software resources of the client terminal . General functions of the operating system may include processor management memory management device management storage management application interface and user interface. Any type of the operating system may be used to implement the present embodiments and examples of common operating systems include the Microsoft WINDOWS family of operating systems the UNIX family of operating systems or the MACINTOSH operating systems. However those ordinarily skilled in the art will recognize that the added complexity of an operating system may not be necessary to perform the functions described herein.

At step the charting application displays a chart representing market data related to a tradeable object. It should be understood that different items of interest related to a tradeable object could be used and the example embodiments are not limited to any specific charting methods or chart types. For example the charting application could use line charts bar charts candlestick charts or different chart types. A line chart includes a line that is formed by connecting values of the selected item of interest over a period of time. A bar chart consists of a number of vertical bars where each bar corresponds to a predetermined time period such as an hour a day a week or a month for example. Also using the bar chart the top and the bottom of each bar defines the high and low values corresponding to the plotted variable. In addition to the high and low values each bar could also display the opening and closing values or any other values in the format of short horizontal lines extending to the right and left of each bar. In turn the candlestick charts display open high close and low values and use white clear candlesticks when the closing value is higher then the opening value and black solid candlesticks when the closing value is lower than the opening value. It should be understood that the chart could display different values related to the tradeable object including but not limited to prices or traded quantities. Also in another alternative embodiment rather that displaying a chart the charting application could display a market profile. The market profile is a statistical display of price activity over a specified time interval and different letters are used to represent a time price opportunity a specific half hour time segment or any other time interval in which that price occurred on a specific day. However different chart types could also be used.

At step the charting application receives a user input selecting at least one portion of the chart to be analyzed according to the preferred embodiments. In one embodiment the charting application can provide a drawing function enabling a user to select a desired portion of the chart. Alternatively a trader could specify one or more time periods that can be used by the pattern recognition application as a reference to select a portion of the chart corresponding to the selected time period.

At step the pattern recognition application searches for similar chart patterns using tradeable object related data being received from at least one electronic exchange. It should be understood that different methods could be used to determine if the chart pattern being monitored by the pattern recognition application resembles the selected chart pattern. In one example embodiment the pattern recognition application could determine if the chart pattern fits into any standard chart pattern such as if it corresponds to a falling market a rising market or any other commonly known patterns including but not limited to market reversals or continuations. For example the reversal pattern may include a double top pattern a double bottom pattern a head and shoulder pattern a rounding bottom and top pattern a wedge a hammer or any other user configurable patterns. As an example the double top pattern is typically detected when the market falls twice at a resistance level and then sharply reverses while the double bottom pattern is just the opposite of the double top. Then as an example of a continuous pattern the pennant occurs when the market pattern resembles a small symmetrical triangle and it is a brief pause in a strongly trending market. Also different chart pattern characteristics could also be used such as slopes of the trend lines that could be drawn in relation to the selected chart pattern. The slopes of the trend lines could then be used as part of the method for recognizing similar chart patterns by the chart pattern recognition application . However it should be understood that rather than trying to match the selected chart portion to any existing chart pattern the chart pattern recognition application could use any other statistical techniques to determine if any currently occurring chart patterns matches characteristics of the selected chart pattern. Preferably the chart pattern recognition application may search for the similar chart patterns until the end of a user specified time period such as until the end of a trading day or for any other user specified time period.

Once the chart pattern recognition application detects a similar chart pattern at step the chart pattern recognition application may alert a user. It should be understood that many different alerts could be used including but not limited to any visual or audio alerts or a combination thereof. For example the chart pattern recognition application could alert a user by displaying indicators in relation to the chart flashing a portion of the chart or providing an audio signal to a user. Once a user is alerted the user may take any actions such as open new position or close any existing positions or yet some other actions to take advantage of the detected chart pattern.

At step the charting application displays a chart representing market data related to a tradeable object. As described in reference to different chart types could be used to represent the market data and the example embodiments are not limited to any particular chart types or market profiles.

At step the chart pattern recognition and analysis application receives a user input indicating a selection of at least a portion of the chart to be used in the chart analysis according to the preferred embodiments. A user can make the selection using a drawing function with respect to the chart by specifying a time period to be used by the chart pattern recognition and analysis application as a reference to select the portion of the chart or via some other selection means.

At step the chart pattern recognition and analysis application may search for similar chart patterns using chart data from the past. In one embodiment a user could specify a time period such as the last two hours the last month the last year or some other time interval to be used by the chart pattern recognition and analysis application to search for similar chart patterns. As mentioned in reference to any statistical analysis could be used to determine if a portion of a chart in the past is similar to the selected chart pattern. Also any default time period could be used for the search. When the pattern recognition and analysis application finds one or more matches at step the application can display the matches to a user via the display devices . Once the matches are displayed the user could decide which of them should be used in the analysis. Alternatively all found matches can be automatically used in the analysis.

At step the chart pattern recognition and analysis application applies at least one study to the found chart matches. In one preferred embodiment the studies can be used to determine reoccurring indicator values corresponding to the found chart matches under the study. It should be understood that the example embodiments are not limited to any specific technical studies. As an example technical studies may include determining values of a rate of change ROC indicator a relative strength indicator RSI an average true range ATR or a standard deviation study. The ROC is a momentum oscillator that measures the percent change in price from one time period to the next. For example a 10 day ROC can be determined by dividing the latest closing price by the closing price 10 days ago. The RSI is a bounded momentum oscillator that compares the magnitude of the recent gains in currency to the magnitude of the recent losses. Then the ATR measures volatility while the standard deviation measures a difference between the selected set of values corresponding to an indicator compared to the average value of the indicator.

In one preferred embodiment when the chart pattern recognition and analysis application applies a technical study to a set of selected chart pattern matches the chart pattern recognition and analysis application may determine a set of reoccurring indicator values such as a set of reoccurring ROC indicator values. In an embodiment where the chart pattern and analysis application also analyzes portions of a chart corresponding to the time periods before and after the found matches the application can also analyze those chart portions so that a user could get a better idea what set of reoccurring indicator values has lead to or followed the selected chart pattern. It should be understood that a trader could define the time periods to be used as a reference for selecting chart portions that proceed and follow each found chart pattern match. In such an embodiment the chart pattern recognition and analysis application could determine three sets of reoccurring indicator values for the chart portions proceeding during and after the found matches. For example the chart pattern recognition application could determine that the indicator values stayed within a specific range or was above below a certain value most of the time during a time period corresponding to each found chart match or during a time period before or after the found match. It should be understood that many different methods could be used to determine a reoccurring indicator range corresponding to the found chart pattern matches.

At step the chart pattern recognition and analysis application may display results of each study to a user on the display devices . In the embodiment where the pattern recognition and analysis application determines the most often occurring range of values corresponding to one or more indicators the range of values corresponding to each indicator can be displayed to a user. For example the pattern recognition and analysis application may determine that the RSI indicator value was between a first value and a second value such as between 70 and 80 during the time period corresponding to each found match. Alternatively rather than providing a range of reoccurring indicator values the pattern recognition and analysis application could specify that during the major portion of the time period such as 80 of the time the RSI indicator value was higher than 75 or was around 75. It should be understood that the level of detail provided to a trader may vary based on user preferences. The indicator values could later be used by the pattern recognition and analysis application to help the application in detecting similar chart patterns in any future market data.

As mentioned in the preceding paragraphs in a preferred embodiment a trader can interact with the pattern recognition application and the charting application via a graphical user interface. is a block diagram illustrating an example graphical user interface that can be used by a trader to perform chart pattern recognition and analysis according to the preferred embodiments.

The graphical user interface is a visual environment that preferably enables a user to view different charts and provides additional functionality and options to a user via a display of icons dialog boxes and menus. A user may activate any of the display icons or menus by pointing and clicking on any of them with a selection input device such as a mouse one or more keys on a keyboard a stylus or using yet another input device. It should be understood that a trader could also set any parameters for performing chart studies and analysis through something other than a graphical user interface such as through a command line entry.

As shown in the graphical user interface displays a line chart that may represent traded prices traded volume or yet some other quantity related to a tradeable object. Also it should be understood that while illustrates a line chart any other chart types could also be used in relation to the example embodiments described herein for the chart pattern recognition and analysis. In one example embodiment the graphical user interface allows a user to select a portion of the chart to be used in the chart pattern recognition or analysis or both. In one embodiment a trader may select a portion of a chart by drawing around a desired portion of the chart. As illustrated in a trader could select an icon to draw on the graphical user interface and to select a desired portion of the chart . However it should be understood that different methods for selecting a desired chart portion could also be used. For example a trader could also define a time period via another window and a chart portion corresponding to the specified time period could be automatically selected by the chart pattern recognition and analysis application .

Alternatively if a time axis is displayed in relation to the displayed chart a user could select a portion of the chart by selecting two reference points on the time axis and the selected reference points can be used to define a desired chart portion. It should be understood that a trader could view chart portions not being displayed on the graphical user interface by selecting and moving a scroll bar or yet using some other means. It should be understood that different options could also be used to define and select a desired chart portion.

A trader could also control the chart display such as what type of a chart is displayed by selecting different chart types using a chart type icon . Once the trader selects the chart type the trader could also select a type of an item related to one or more tradeable objects such as a last traded price or a last traded quantity to be displayed on the chart. Also additional chart manipulation functionality could be provided to a trader such as functionality enabling the trader to zoom in and zoom out on different portions of the chart to change the chart scale or yet some other chart related functionality.

When a trader selects a desired chart portion the trader could select a find matches icon to search for similar matches. According to the example embodiments the find matches icon may give the trader two options the first one to search for any reoccurring chart pattern matches in the future or the second option to look for similar chart patterns in the past. It should be understood that the trader could also select both options as well to be performed simultaneously. Also preferably a trader may be given a number of additional options to further customize his search. For example one of the options given to a trader may enable the trader to define a timeframe to be used by the chart pattern recognition and analysis application to find the matching chart portions. The time frame could be any time period in the past or any future time period depending on the functional selection made by the trader.

If a trader wishes to search for similar chart patterns in the future the chart pattern recognition and analysis application may monitor data being plotted on the chart to detect similar chart patterns. As mentioned in earlier paragraphs there are many currently existing chart pattern detection methods and the example embodiments are not limited to any specific methods for detecting similarities in chart characteristics. If a similar chart pattern is detected the chart pattern recognition and analysis application can alert a user. It should be understood that the application could be configured to monitor whether the chart pattern matches the chart pattern selected by a trader for a predetermined time period before alerting the trader that the match was found and such a time period could be user configurable or could be any preset default value. The alert can take many different formats and may include any visual alerts audio alerts or the combination of both.

Upon alerting a user the chart pattern recognition and analysis application could continue monitoring the data being plotted in relation to the chart to determine the accuracy of its prediction. The accuracy data may then be used by the application to generate a performance result report listing general or specific statistics. A trader may use the performance data to modify any existing settings. If the accuracy of predictions is low a trader may wish to allow the chart pattern recognition and analysis application to use a longer time period to decide if any chart pattern being monitored by the application matches the chart pattern to be searched for by the application . Also different modifications could also be made by a user based on the performance data.

In an embodiment where a trader wishes to find matches in a specific time period in the past the graphical user interface may display any matches found by the chart pattern recognition application such as those illustrated at . It should be understood that a trader could define how many matches should be displayed via the interface and the chart pattern recognition application could prioritize and display to a trader only those matches that are closest to the selected chart pattern.

When the chart pattern recognition application finds the matches a trader may wish to further analyze the chart pattern by applying one or more studies to the found matches and thus determining a set of reoccurring indicator values associated with the pattern. However before applying any studies a trader could be able to eliminate those matches that a trader does not wish to be taken into consideration when applying one or more studies. In an embodiment illustrated in a trader could mark which of the found matches should be eliminated using selection boxes displayed in relation to the chart matches such as selection boxes and . Depending on the configuration a trader could also use the selection boxes to indicate which of the displayed chart matches should be used in the chart pattern analysis. In the embodiment where selection boxes are used to eliminate any found matches a trader could select a Remove X Outs icon to eliminate the marked up matches from any studies to be applied to the matches.

Once a trader selects found matches a trader could apply different studies to the found matches. It should be understood that if a trader wishes to have more chart matches to perform a desirable study the trader could increase a time period to be used by the chart pattern recognition and analysis application and the new time period could be used to perform a second search. When a trader believes that he has enough matches the trader may select an Apply Study icon to view a list of available studies. The list of available studies may include many different types of studies such as determining positions of different types of moving averages in relation to each chart pattern match or determining values of momentum indicators such as the ROC or RSI determining a rate of change stochastic indicator values or other indicator values. The trader may then select one or more studies to be applied to the found matches.

When the chart pattern recognition and analysis application applies the selected studies to the chart matches such as for example finds a set of RSI values detected in relation to each chart pattern match the chart pattern recognition application can attempt to find a set of indicator values that is shared by all chart pattern matches e.g. a reoccurring set of indicator value s . For example the application could determine in relation to all matches under the study that the RSI indicator value or some other indicator value was most of the time higher than a specific value X. Alternatively the application could determine a range of indicator values detected in relation to all found chart matches. Also it should be understood that rather than applying any technical studies the chart pattern recognition and analysis application could also study any other tradeable object related characteristics such as traded volume during the occurrence of the chart patterns. The results of the studies could be displayed to a trader. Also the results of the studies could be used by the chart pattern recognition and analysis application in the process of detecting the same chart pattern in the future.

The above description of the preferred embodiments alternative embodiments and specific examples are given by way of illustration and should not be viewed as limiting. Further many changes and modifications within the scope of the present embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and the present invention includes such changes and modifications.

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that methods involved in the system and method for chart pattern recognition and analysis may be embodied in a computer program product that includes one or more computer readable media. For example a computer readable medium can include a readable memory device such as a hard drive device a CD ROM a DVD ROM or a computer diskette having computer readable program code segments stored thereon. The computer readable medium can also include a communications or transmission medium such as a bus or a communication link either optical wired or wireless having program code segments carried thereon as digital or analog data signals.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

