---

title: Automated method for generating a web service composition
abstract: The disclosed embodiments relate to creating a web service composition from a plurality of web services. For creating the web service composition, an augmented definition of the plurality of web services is created. Based on the augmented definition and a user request, a task listing the required inputs for the plurality of web services, the required outputs of the plurality of the web services, the mapping between the output of one service to the input of the second service is computed. The task of identifying the required inputs for the plurality of web services, the required outputs of the plurality of the web services, and the mapping between the output of one service to the input of the second service is crowd sourced to crowd workers who submit their responses to an online crowd sourcing platform. The collected responses are used to generate the desired web service composition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700737&OS=08700737&RS=08700737
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 08700737
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120531
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The presently disclosed embodiments are directed to software based method for crowdsourcing of various tasks for creating a web service composition from multiple web services.

With the advancement in web technology and the never ending need of users for more and more information web service compositions also referred to as Mash ups have become very popular. Web service compositions essentially gather data from more than one source and use it to provide a combined output to the user. The task however is difficult for someone with less software programming experience.

Further if the task has to be outsourced it also takes up a lot of monetary resources. This happens because of the lack of one individual who has the expertise of performing all the steps required to create a web service composition. A way to remedy this is to distribute the task between multiple workers. This in effect would bring down the cost required for creating a web service composition.

The concept referred to above is commonly known as crowdsourcing. Crowdsourcing is a technique wherein a task is executed by multiple people. The tasks are typically simple and repetitive however require manual intervention. The tasks can be published by a user on an online crowd sourcing platform where various crowd workers are registered and they can opt to undertake various tasks in return for some compensation. Currently there are many online platforms which facilitate users to publish tasks which can then be completed by crowd workers. Given the nature of the tasks which are crowdsourced and the remuneration involved a crowd worker generally tries to complete the work in a very short span of time and also does not comprehensively pay heed to the instructions provided by the user. One of the biggest problems with crowdsourcing is the amount of manual effort required to remove the incorrect responses received from crowd workers and short list only the correct responses. In various experiments that have been performed it has been criticized that the quality of output received from the crowd workers is very poor. Possible reasons for the occurrence of these errors have been listed above.

The disclosed embodiments seek to provide an easy to use method and computer program code which can be used by any user to create a web service composition. In the process the embodiments also seek to alleviate the various problems associated with crowdsourcing of tasks.

In an embodiment a computer implemented method is provided to crowd source the task of creating a web service composition. The method comprises a first step of creating an augmented definition of a plurality of web services. A request for creating a web service composition is received from a user. Subsequently the user request and the augmented definition of the plurality of web services are used to automatically create tasks which can be easily and comprehensively understood by remote crowd workers. The responses of the crowd workers are collected and used to create the web service composition in an automated manner.

In an embodiment there is provided a computer implemented method for creating a web service composition from a plurality of web services. The method comprises the steps of creating an augmented definition of the plurality of web services. A natural language request for a web service composition is received and on the basis of the natural language request and the augmented definition an input required for the plurality of web services an output expected from the plurality of web services and an instruction for mapping of an output of one of the plurality of web services to an input of another one of the plurality of web services is generated. Further the input output and mapping is published to a plurality of crowd workers. The input for the plurality of the web services the output for the plurality of web services and mapping of the output of one of the plurality of web services to the input of another one of the plurality of web services are received from the crowd workers and the same is used to construct an executable file. The executable file is finally used to generate a web service composition.

In another embodiment there is a provided a computer program product to create a web service composition from a plurality of web services. The computer program product comprises program instruction means to create augmented definitions of a plurality of web services. The computer code further comprises program instruction means to receive a natural language request from as user to create a web service composition. Subsequently the computer code generates on the basis of the user request and the augmented definition well defined tasks which can be presented to a plurality of remote crowd workers. The computer code further comprises means to collect responses from the crowd workers and use the responses to generate the desired web service composition.

The present disclosure is best understood with reference to the detailed figures and description set forth herein. Various embodiments are discussed below with reference to the figures. However those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the detailed description given herein with respect to these figures is just for explanatory purposes as the method and the system extend beyond the described embodiments. For example those skilled in the art will appreciate in light of the teachings presented recognizing multiple alternate and suitable approaches depending on the needs of a particular application to implement the functionality of any detail described herein beyond the particular implementation choices in the following embodiments described and shown. The detailed description of the embodiments will now be presented in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Definition of Terms Terms not specifically defined herein should be given the meanings that would be given to them by one of skill in the art in light of the disclosure and the context. As used in the present specification and claims however unless specified to the contrary the following terms have the meaning indicated.

A web service refers to a publically available website available for access to users through the Internet.

 Augmented definition refers to any modification made by a user administrator to the script of a web service. In an embodiment modifications are made to the script of a web service to append specialized tags identifying the inputs and outputs of the web service. In an embodiment the identified inputs outputs of various services and the mapping between their respective inputs and outputs are used to create easily understandable tasks for crowd workers.

 Crowdsourcing refers to the process of distributing a task to multiple workers located at different locations. In an embodiment tasks can be published on any of the various crowdsourcing platforms and registers workers can view the task and choose to undertake it in return for a pre decided remuneration.

A method and a system suitable for enabling crowdsourcing for creating a web service composition are provided. A service composition is a result of combining the services of two or more web service to generate a composite output. Most web services today are based on either Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP or the more recent Representational state transfer RESTFul web services. The SOAP based services typically use WSDL Web Service Description Language for describing the locations and capabilities of network services registry mechanisms such as UDDI Universal Description Discovery and Integration for client and servers to find each other and SOAP for exchanging Extensible Markup Language XML based information. Very popular web services are generally considered to be too complex and heavy weight because of the usage of SOAP HTTP enveloped XML messages.

RESTFul web services on the other hand are light weight and can be easily accessed from all web browsers. In order to make the web service light weight RESTFul web services do away with many communication layers. However as a result of the prevalent semantic and syntactic heterogeneity in Application Programming Interface API data formats and communication protocols creating a web service composition today is complex and time consuming and often requires technical expertise in terms of programming knowledge. This problem is especially exacerbated in RESTFul web services.

In an embodiment there is provided a system and a computer program code to easily create a web service composition from a plurality of web services by crowdsourcing the various tasks involved in creating the web service composition. The plurality of web services are based on RESTFul services in an embodiment. For achieving the objective of creating the web service composition through crowdsourcing it is imperative to present a simplified task to the crowd worker so that he she can easily comprehend the response that is needed for completing the task. In order to present a simplified task to the user a one time activity of creating an augmented definition of the plurality of web services is required.

The creation of the augmented definition of the plurality of web services can be performed by the service provider in accordance with an embodiment. The APIs for RESTFul web services are generally unstructured and often difficult to understand. Hence in order to simplify the crowd tasks an augmented definition of the web services is required which can help capture the various options for the inputs and outputs of the web services required for the web service composition. For creating the augmented definition of the plurality of web services web application description language WADL is used. The WADL provides a machine readable description of web based services and can be accessed in an Extensible Markup Language XML format for any web service. Modifications are made to the WADL of the plurality of web services in order to extract the various possible inputs and outputs to the web services. Specialized tags are added to the WADL files in order to make the input outputs understandable and programmatically extractable. Once the augmented definition of the web service has been created the process of creating the crowd task using the simplified and defined response options for the crowd worker can be directly automated and created. In another embodiment if the service description of the web service is XML based then the specialized tags can directly be included in the XML definition in order to identify the various inputs and outputs of the web service. For the sake of simplicity the augmented definition of a web service can be perceived as the identification of the various inputs and outputs of the web service and it will be appreciated by a person skilled in the art that the process detailed above for creating a web service s augmented definition is only for exemplary purposes and various other techniques can be used to create the augmented definition of the web service without departing from the scope of the disclosed embodiments. The advantages of creating the augmented definition for the plurality of web services will be made explicit in the foregoing detailed description of the various drawings.

The aforementioned process is time consuming. Further in order to achieve the objective in an automated fashion without user intervention the user has to be technically aware of the concepts of computer programming to generate an executable file which can achieve the aforementioned objective. In order to cut costs and reduce the time involved this task can be distributed to crowd workers.

As shown in a first web service and a second web service are used to obtain the current stock quote of a company given the company s name.

For manually achieving the aforementioned objective the user should know that out of the multiple inputs possible to the first web service he she has to use the name of the company as the input. Further the user should know that out of the multiple outputs received from the first web service the user needs to select the company code as the required output. Then the user should be aware that this output of the first web service should be entered as the input to the second web service . Finally the user should be aware which output of the second web service serves his objective of generating this particular web service composition. In order to save a user not versed with computer programming from dealing with the lengthy aforementioned process the task can be crowd sourced. For crowd sourcing the task any known crowdsourcing platform can be used. The task will be published on the crowd sourcing platform where crowd workers can register for the task perform the task and accordingly get paid for their services. Finally the results received from the crowd workers can be put in to an executable file. The executable file can be in an embodiment a business process modeling notation BPMN file. However for doing the above the responses generated from the crowd workers should be high on the level of accuracy.

As can be observed and appreciated from the simplicity of these crowd tasks in terms of providing simple easy to understand instructions and the defined answer choices are a direct result of the augmented definition which was created for the plurality of web services. The augmented definitions are used to extract the inputs and outputs of the plurality of web services which can then be directly used to create the crowd tasks.

Once the crowd workers have submitted responses to all the tasks the correct responses can be made in to an executable file which can directly be used to create the web service composition.

At step the responses provided by the crowd workers are collected. At step the correct responses are selected and the required inputs of the plurality of web services the output of the web services and the mapping of the output of one of the web services to the input of another one of the web services is compiled in to an executable file which can be directly used to generate the desired web service composition.

The method and computer code described above have numerous advantages. The disclosed embodiments propose a process for simplifying web service composition. Existing processes require a detailed understanding of the individual services and the process of service composition. By first creating augmented service definitions the process of identifying appropriate inputs and outputs of services along with generating the composition script can be reduced to simple tasks that can be crowdsourced to a wider work force for less amount of money.

It will be appreciated that the description provided above in conjunction with the drawings is in no way meant to limit the scope of the disclosed embodiments. The description provided is in accordance with an embodiment. It will be understood by a person ordinarily skilled in the art that many more embodiments are possible and that the scope of the various possible embodiments is covered by the claims set forth.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that any of the foregoing steps and or system modules may be suitably replaced reordered or removed and additional steps and or system modules may be inserted depending on the needs of a particular application and that the systems of the foregoing embodiments may be implemented using a wide variety of suitable processes and system modules and is not limited to any particular computer hardware software middleware firmware microcode etc.

It will be appreciated that variants of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be combined to create many other different systems or applications. Various unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art and are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

