---

title: Method and system for last gasp device detection
abstract: A method is provided for device detection by a base station comprising receiving a plurality of signals over a preamble subframe from an endpoint. The plurality of signals are attempting to access an access group of the preamble subframe. Additionally, the plurality of signals are received on a random access channel using a wireless network. Further, the plurality of signals have a plurality of last gasp messages (LGMs). The method additionally comprises determining an allowable rate of collisions for the plurality of signals and determining an actual rate of collisions for the plurality of signals. The method includes increasing the size of the access group allocated to the plurality of signals having the plurality of LGMs, based on whether the actual rate of collisions exceeds the allowable rate of collisions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09088994&OS=09088994&RS=09088994
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 09088994
owner_city: Kawasaki-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120831
---
The present invention generally relates to network device support and more particularly to a method and system for last gasp device detection.

Wireless communications systems are used in a variety of telecommunications systems television radio and other media systems data communication networks and other systems to convey information between remote points using wireless transmitters and wireless receivers. A transmitter is an electronic device that usually with the aid of an antenna propagates an electromagnetic signal modulated with information such as radio television or other signals. A receiver is an electronic device that receives a wireless electromagnetic signal and processes the information modulated thereon. A transmitter and receiver may be combined into a single device called a transceiver.

Machine to machine M2M communications in large industrial networks may require the connection of over 30 000 machine User Equipment UE devices per cell. Long Term Evolution LTE and or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A networks may be used for fourth generation 4G wireless technology communication used to provide communication between and or among all UEs and a base station e.g. Evolved Node B eNB .

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure a method is provided for device detection by a base station comprising receiving a plurality of signals over a preamble subframe from an endpoint. The plurality of signals are attempting to access an access group of the preamble subframe. Additionally the plurality of signals are received on a random access channel using a wireless network. Further the plurality of signals have a plurality of last gasp messages LGMs . The method additionally comprises determining an allowable rate of collisions for the plurality of signals and determining an actual rate of collisions for the plurality of signals. The method includes increasing the size of the access group allocated to the plurality of signals having the plurality of LGMs based on whether the actual rate of collisions exceeds the allowable rate of collisions.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure one or more non transitory computer readable media embodying logic is provided that when executed by a processor is configured to perform operations including receiving a plurality of signals over a preamble subframe from an endpoint. The plurality of signals are attempting to access an access group of the preamble subframe. Additionally the plurality of signals are received on a random access channel using a wireless network. Further the plurality of signals have a plurality of LGMs. The method additionally comprises determining an allowable rate of collisions for the plurality of signals and determining an actual rate of collisions for the plurality of signals. The method includes increasing the size of the access group allocated to the plurality of signals having the plurality of LGMs based on whether the actual rate of collisions exceeds the allowable rate of collisions.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure a base station for wireless communication is provided that includes a memory and a processor coupled to the memory. The processor is configured to receive a plurality of signals over a preamble subframe from an endpoint. The plurality of signals are attempting to access an access group of the preamble subframe. Additionally the plurality of signals are received on a random access channel using a wireless network and the plurality of signals having a plurality of LGMs. The processor is further configured to determine an allowable rate of collisions for the plurality of signals and determine an actual rate of collisions for the plurality of signals. Additionally the processor is configured to increase the size of the access group allocated to the plurality of signals having the plurality of LGMs based on whether the actual rate of collisions exceeds the allowable rate of collisions.

The object and advantages of the invention will be realized and attained at least by the features elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the claims. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Embodiments of the present invention and its advantages are best understood by referring to of the drawings like numerals being used for like and corresponding parts of the various drawings.

As used herein base station may refer to a transmission site a remote transmission site a Radio Element Control an Evolved Node B eNB a Baseband Unit a Radio Element and or a Remote Radio Head RRH . Base station may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to implement any number of communication protocols that allow for wired or wireless exchange of information in network . Base station may be operable to send control signals and data traffic to endpoints . Base station may use any suitable technologies or protocols e.g. Common Public Radio Interface CPRI to communicate with other base stations .

Base station may also be coupled to any network or combination of networks capable of transmitting signals data and or messages including signals data or messages transmitted through WebPages e mail text chat voice over IP VoIP and instant messaging in order to provide services and data to endpoints . For example base station may be coupled to one or more local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs metropolitan area networks MANs public switched telephone networks PSTNs worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX networks global distributed networks such as the Internet or any other form of wireless or wired networking. As an example base station may be coupled to a core infrastructure network which may include server via a LAN .

Base station may communicate with endpoints using wireless communication via one or more ports not expressly shown . Base station may communicate with endpoints using any suitable wireless technology including but not limited to Long Term Evolution LTE or Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE A protocols. In some embodiments base station may coordinate with other base stations to communicate jointly with endpoint .

Endpoint may be any type of wireless device able to send and receive data and or signals to and from other endpoints base station directly and or base station via one or more other base stations . Some examples of endpoints include desktop computers PDAs cell phones laptops VoIP phones wireless measurement devices wireless sensors and or Machine User Equipment UE . Endpoints may provide data or network services to a human and or machine user through any suitable combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium real time processing system and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . Endpoints may also include unattended or automated systems gateways other intermediate components or other devices that may send or receive data and or signals. Various types of information may be sent to or from endpoints . As an example endpoint may send identification data and status data to base station .

Network may have been initially designated for human use. However M2M communications also known as Machine Type Communications MTC may have emerged as market driven class of applications. M2M traffic patterns may be significantly different from human mobile traffic. During M2M mass event scenarios e.g. after a power outage scenario impacting most or all endpoints connected to base station the related network may be overloaded when the mass event resolves e.g. power is returned. Additionally network may be unable to identify particular endpoints that are involved in the mass event. In order to allow network to properly process mass triggered machine events last gasp function may be employed for some endpoints as the capability of endpoints to emit one last message when it loses power.

Further network and base station may be required to accommodate large numbers of endpoints in the form of machine UE devices e.g. up to more than approximately 30 000 devices per cell . For example sensor networks in industrial applications smart grid meters in residential utility applications and or smart home networks may include large numbers of endpoints . Network may include only machine UE devices in the case of a M2M network or network may be a mix of human UE devices and machine UE devices in a human machine network. During power outages or other mass event scenarios endpoints may be impacted and may lose power. Endpoints may generate transmission of a last message e.g. last gasp message LGM . The LGM may be sent immediately after a power loss or other mass scale event. The LGM may be transmitted within a last gasp LG interval of approximately 50 ms to 500 ms immediately after the power outage or other mass scale event occurs. The LGM may include information indicating that the power outage or other mass scale event has occurred e.g. that endpoint has experienced a power loss or other mass scale event.

The LGM transmitted by endpoint may be sent using a Random Access Channel RACH and or a Physical Random Access Channel PRACH . A PRACH may be a shared channel used for initial communication between endpoint and base station and for communication of unscheduled messages such as when endpoint exits sleep mode loses power or executes a handover. Thus for example a PRACH may be used to transmit a LGM from endpoint to base station across and or utilizing an LTE or LTE A network. If endpoint is unable to transmit a LGM following a power outage or other mass scale event base station may be unaware that a particular endpoint is no longer connected to the network and possibly not operating. Additionally when recovering from mass event scenarios involving large numbers of endpoints the access channel including a RACH or PRACH may be overloaded e.g. when power returns due to a large number of LGM endpoints which in turn will be attempting to contact base station simultaneously . If the PRACH becomes overloaded when power is restored to endpoints then signals sent from endpoints attempting to reconnect to base station may collide and some or most endpoints may be unable to connect to network .

In some embodiments predefined endpoints may communicate and transmit signals to a primary endpoint also called a PRACH group candidate. The communication between predefined endpoints and the PRACH group candidate may occur using a different wireless technology and or network than the technology and or network designed to communicate between endpoints and base station . The PRACH group candidate may utilize the PRACH to communicate information regarding all predefined endpoints to base station . While this group access may reduce traffic across the PRACH between endpoints and base station endpoints may have a higher cost because they may be required to support multiple communication technologies e.g. support for communication with the PRACH group candidate and communication with base station .

System may allow for multiple input multiple output MIMO transmission where multiple antennas are used for transmitting and receiving wireless signals. Additionally system may be configured to perform Coordinated Multi point Processing CoMP to coordinate and combine the transmission of signals used in MIMO transmission. The CoMP processing may perform down link DL CoMP transmission in which multiple base units jointly communicate with endpoints and or multiple endpoints communicate with base unit .

Endpoints may communicate with base station using wireless communication via one or more antenna ports . For example endpoint may communicate with base station via antenna ports and . Endpoint may communicate with base station via antenna ports and . Endpoints may communicate with base station using any of a variety of different wireless technologies including but not limited to orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA LTE and LTE A protocol as defined in the Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Release 11 or beyond. In some embodiments of the present disclosure endpoint may coordinate with one more other endpoints to communicate jointly with base station . In such embodiments endpoints may coordinate with each other to communicate with base station using a MIMO transmission scheme where multiple transmitting antenna ports are placed at different endpoints while one or more receiving antenna port are located at the base station .

For example endpoints may communicate with base station using a DL CoMP MIMO transmission as defined in 3GPP Release 11 or beyond. During such a MIMO transmission endpoint may wirelessly communicate a portion of a data stream to base station via one or more wireless connections between antenna ports and one or more antenna port of base station .

The components of endpoints and base station may comprise any suitable physical form configuration number type and or layout. As an example and not by way of limitation endpoint and or base station may comprise an embedded real time processing system computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate endpoint and or base station may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In the depicted embodiment endpoints and and base station each include their own respective processor and memory and storage and interface and and bus and . Although a particular antenna system is depicted having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable antenna system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement. For simplicity similar components of endpoints and base station will be discussed together. However it is not necessary for these devices to have the same components or the same type of components. For example processor may be processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

Processor and may be a microprocessor controller or any other suitable computing device resource or combination of hardware software and or encoded logic operable to provide either alone or in conjunction with other components e.g. memory and respectively wireless networking functionality. Such functionality may include providing various wireless features discussed herein. For example processor may be configured to analyze data and or signals communicated between base station and endpoints via channels . Further processor and of endpoints may be configured to analyze signals and or data communicated from base station via channels .

In some embodiments processor and may include hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor and may retrieve or fetch instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or respectively or storage or respectively decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or respectively or storage or respectively.

In some embodiments processor and may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor and including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor and may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or respectively or storage or respectively and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor or respectively. Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or respectively or storage or respectively for instructions executing at processor or respectively to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor or for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or or for writing to memory or respectively or storage or respectively or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor or . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translations for processor or . In some embodiments processor and may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. Depending on the embodiment processor and may include any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor and may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor include one or more processors or any other suitable processor.

Memory or may be any form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component or components. In some embodiments memory or may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM or any other suitable type of RAM or memory. Memory or may include one or more memories or respectively where appropriate. Memory or may store any suitable data or information utilized by endpoints or base station respectively including software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . In some embodiments memory or may include main memory for storing instructions for processor or respectively to execute or data for processor or to operate on. In some embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between processor or and memory or respectively and facilitate accesses to memory or requested by processor or respectively.

As an example and not by way of limitation endpoints or base station may load instructions from storage or respectively or another source such as for example another computer system another base station or a remote transmission site to memory or respectively. Processor or may then load the instructions from memory or respectively to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor or may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor or may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor or may then write one or more of those results to memory or respectively. In some embodiments processor or may execute only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory or respectively as opposed to storage or respectively or elsewhere and may operate only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory or respectively as opposed to storage or respectively or elsewhere .

In some embodiments storage or may include mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage or may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage or may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage or may be internal or external to transmission site where appropriate. In some embodiments storage or may be non volatile solid state memory. In some embodiments storage or may include read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Storage or may take any suitable physical form and may comprise any suitable number or type of storage. Storage or may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor or respectively and storage or respectively where appropriate.

In some embodiments interface or may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between endpoints base station any networks any network devices and or any other computer systems. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface or may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network and or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network.

In some embodiments interface or comprise one or more radios coupled to one or more antenna ports . In such an embodiment interface or receives digital data that is to be sent out to wireless devices such as base station via a wireless connection. The radio may convert the digital data into a radio signal having the appropriate center frequency bandwidth parameters and transmission power. Similarly the radios may convert radio signals received via one or more receiving antennas into digital data to be processed by for example processor or respectively. Interface of base station may be configured to perform similar operations via processor and antenna port .

Depending on the embodiment interface or may be any type of interface suitable for any type of network for which antenna system is used. As an example and not by way of limitation antenna system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example antenna system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network an LTE network an LTE A network a cellular telephone network for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or any other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Endpoints and and base station may include any suitable interface or respectively for any one or more of these networks where appropriate.

In some embodiments interface or may include one or more interfaces for one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and endpoints and or base station . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. Some embodiments may include any suitable type and or number of I O devices and any suitable type and or number of interface or for them. Where appropriate interface or may include one or more drivers enabling processor or respectively to drive one or more of these I O devices. Interface or may include one or more interface or respectively where appropriate.

Bus or may include any suitable combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to couple components of endpoint and base station to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus or may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or any other suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus or may include any number type and or configuration of bus or where appropriate. In some embodiments one or more buses or which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor or respectively to memory or respectively. Bus or may include one or more memory buses and may be specialized and dedicated multi threaded busses.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible computer readable storage media possessing structures. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a flash memory card a flash memory drive or any other suitable tangible computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate.

Some embodiments may include one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor or such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory or one or more portions of storage or or a combination of these where appropriate. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In some embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody encoded software.

Herein reference to encoded software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate that have been stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. In some embodiments encoded software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. Some embodiments may use any suitable encoded software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages stored or encoded in any suitable type or number of computer readable storage media. In some embodiments encoded software may be expressed as source code or object code. In some embodiments encoded software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In some embodiments encoded software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In some embodiments encoded software is expressed in JAVA. In some embodiments encoded software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML real time OS RTOS or other suitable markup language.

Accordingly the above mentioned components of endpoints and base station may enable endpoints and base station to perform operations such as joint DL transmission according to the present disclosure. Modifications additions or omissions may be made to without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example any of the options or features described herein may be utilized in combination with the illustrated embodiments of and or any number of the other options or features also described herein as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. As another example base station may include a real time physical PHY layer processor coupled to a fast access RAM and a permanent ROM memory. The real time PHY processor may be configured to process a plurality of signals stored into one or more subframes received from one or more endpoints .

In embodiments of the present disclosure antenna system may be a M2M sensor network e.g. a smart grid . The M2M network may have the characteristics of being fixed or portable such that some endpoints may have no mobility attributes. The M2M network may be AC powered and may exhibit infrequent and or bursty communication and traffic patterns. As signals are sent across channels the expected Time of Arrival ToA may be less than 5 seconds. As more endpoints are added to an M2M network a dedicated LTE or LTE A network may be necessitated. When a mass scale event occurs e.g. power outage many endpoints may be disconnected from system . As endpoint loses AC power endpoint may send a LGM during the LG interval between approximately 20 and 500 ms after power loss or other mass scale event. The LG interval may also be called LGM duration or indicated by LGM. The LG interval may average 200 ms.

As a consequence base station may employ a system and method triggered by the LGM to detect that endpoints have experienced an event causing a LGM and then further identify the number location and or type of endpoints affected by the mass scale event in order to take any appropriate remedial steps. A power outage or other mass scale event with a longer duration may allow base station to identify more accurately aspects of endpoint . A short duration of a mass event such a power outage may limit base station identification of all aspects of endpoint . Remedial steps taken by base station may include preparing for recovery rerouting signals and or any other appropriate remedial measure. Thus as discussed in detail below and in embodiments of the present disclosure a load cognitive PRACH algorithm may be employed that includes LGM detection LGM device identification and M2M LGM PRACH access optimization upon recovery. Specifically LGM detection will be described in more detail in association with .

In some embodiments following detection of an LGM the M2M network may further identify the LGM devices utilizing the LGM time and corresponding Time Advancing TA zones that may be based on the locations of the LGM devices. The selection of TA zones may depend on the power outage or other mass event duration. When the LGM devices may be ready to reconnect to the network the network may schedule and perform a contention free random access targeting procedure. In this procedure the LGM devices may attempt to access the network and may be unsuccessful. If the LGM device is unsuccessful it may utilize a scheduled contention free opportunity.

Generally M2M devices e.g. endpoints operating in a dedicated LTE M2M network may execute two types of access to an eNB e.g. base station . A first type of access may be termed random access RA procedure including a random access channel RACH backed by a PRACH based access on the physical PHY layer. An RA procedure may be utilized when endpoint connects to the base station . Transmissions may include for example scheduled transmissions of data following the exit of isle or sleep mode or powering on by a user or after an accidental power failure. Thus the RA procedure may target initial access synchronization following idle sleep mode and or handover HO procedures. Before the RA procedure begins endpoints may be in an initial status that may be either RRC IDLE status e.g. when endpoint may be in sleep mode to conserve power or NOT CONNECTED status e.g. when endpoint may be powered down or removed from the network temporarily. Endpoints subject to an RA procedure may migrate from either RRC IDLE status or NOT CONNECTED status to RRC CONNECTED status e.g. when endpoint may be connected and or transmitting information from the LTE network perspective. The second type of access may be termed LGM PRACH access. When a LGM enabled device is subject to a power outage or other mass scale event a LGM PRACH access procedure may be triggered. Devices starting a LGM PRACH access procedure may be in an RRC IDLE state. In some embodiments as endpoints communicate with base station preamble signatures may be processed by base station within one PRACH subframe.

While RA procedure may include a complete four step procedure ending with a contention resolution signal resolution the LGM PRACH access procedure may not include all four steps due to the expected short duration of the LG interval average of 200 ms. For example the LG interval may end before the RA procedure completes. Thus endpoint may not be able to connect to base station or re synchronize with base station . In some embodiments endpoint may not complete resolution and or may not be able to complete any steps beyond transmission . Thus the LGM PRACH access procedure may include endpoints that may not complete the full RA procedure.

Accordingly illustrate example LGM PRACH access procedures that may enable detection of endpoints that may have experienced a power loss or other mass scale event. Hence illustrates an example LGM PRACH procedure utilizing new preamble Group C in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. LGM PRACH procedure may occur immediately after a power loss or other mass scale event for all or a subset of endpoints in network shown in . In some embodiments LGM PRACH procedure may start with endpoint to send a LGM as endpoint powers down immediately following a power loss or other mass scale event. In LGM PRACH procedure a new Group C of preamble signatures may be defined to support a LGM. In one embodiment Group C signatures may be allocated from the same 64 signatures discussed with respect to Groups A and B in . Group C signatures may not affect the underlying PRACH PHY or L1 preamble signals from endpoint . LGM PRACH procedure may be suited for M2M networks mixed machine human networks and or other suitable network configurations and protocols.

LGM PRACH procedure may begin with transmission that may include a PRACH Group C Preamble L1 signal communicated from endpoint to base station immediately after a power loss or other mass scale event experienced by endpoint . Group C signatures may originate from the overall pool of preamble signatures which in one embodiment is 64 signatures. Group C signatures may include a minimum of two signatures leaving a maximum of 62 signatures for distribution between Groups A and B. However the number of signatures in Groups A B and C may vary up to a combined total of 64 signatures.

Base station may respond to endpoint with response . Response may include an RAR backed by L1 L2 signaling. Endpoint may utilize a reduced BI in LGM PRACH procedure . In some embodiments the reduced BI may be approximately 128 ms or less. The reduced BI may apply only to Group C preambles which may be the LGM dedicated signatures. The reduced BI may be employed to accommodate the average LGM duration of 200 ms. This reduced BI may increase the chances a LGM device e.g. endpoint may access the PRACH for a second time using Group C of preambles. Additionally the BI interval may allow base station to increase the amount of dedicated Group C signatures. Following a positive RAR transmitted by bases station to endpoint endpoint may respond back to base station with message . Message may also be called Message . Message may include a Scheduled Transmission Message. Message may also include L1 L2 and L3 signaling. Message may include the identification e.g. a random network temporary identifier C RNTI of endpoint . The C RNTI information may allow base station to recognize endpoint . In some embodiments message may include a LGM status.

While RA procedure shown in may include four steps ending with resolution LGM PRACH procedure may not complete four steps due to the expected short duration of the LG interval average of 200 ms. In one embodiment endpoint may not complete contention resolution with resolution . Moreover in heavy contention cases endpoint may not be identified by base station following a successful reception of message by base station .

Accordingly in some embodiments due to limited time constraints a successful transmission of message may not occur. If message is received but not decoded and the amount of collisions computed over PRACH Group C exceeds a certain threshold the network may conclude that a power outage or other mass scale event occurred and at least some of endpoints may no longer be connected to the wireless network e.g. network of . In the illustrated embodiment transmission may have been detected and received by base station . The received information may be transmitted to a server such as server of and or other suitable device for subsequent processing and or transmission information may be processed locally at base station .

In some embodiments in order to increase the chances one or more endpoints may be detected and or identified the allocation of signatures to the PRACH Group C may be dynamically adjusted. Dynamic adjustment of PRACH Group C signatures may allow base station to detect and or identify as many possible endpoints . As noted above the BI e.g. the predefined time delay before endpoint sends an additional PRACH transmission following receipt of a negative RAR may be reduced to approximately 128 ms or less to allow up to two PRACH Group C preamble transmissions from endpoint to base station during the LG interval. Multiple PRACH Group C preamble transmissions based on multiple transmissions from multiple endpoints may result in signal collisions at base station . Signal collisions may occur if a signal is transmitted from endpoint but cannot be properly decoded because multiple endpoints may have selected the same preamble signature at the same time. If base station determines the PRACH Group C collision rate defined as P Group C is above a predefined allowable collision rate defined as base station may conclude that a power outage or other mass scale event impacting one or more endpoints from the coverage area e.g. cell shown in may have occurred. As a result base station may attempt to increase the size of PRACH Group C preamble opportunities as quickly as possible to the allowed maximum size and or within the maximum allowed time. In some embodiments the time allowed for PRACH Group C expansion defined as T may be a function of the LGM duration. For example T

Further in some embodiments a timer T1 may be inserted following the PRACH Group C size being increased to the maximum. T1 may be employed before base station may reduce Preamble Group C back to normal size and or after the collision rate of Preamble Group C is below the predefined allowable collision rate. The duration of T1 may be established according to demands of a specific implementation and or may be determined experimentally. In one embodiment utilizing a timer may avoid multiple variations of collision rates due to possible inaccuracies in measuring the collision rate of Group C signals.

 i Base station detects that the rate of PRACH Group C collisions is below a predefined allowable rate of collisions P Group C 

The rate of PRACH Group C collisions may be determined by the ratio of the number of PRACH Group C collisions and the PRACH Group C capacity 

LGM PRACH procedure may begin with transmission that may include a LGM Group B Preamble L1 signal communicated from endpoint to base station immediately after a power loss or other mass scale event experienced by endpoint . Group B signatures may originate from the overall pool of preamble signatures which in one embodiment includes 64 signatures. Group B may include a minimum of two signatures of the overall signatures of the PRACH subframe which may leave a maximum of 62 signatures for Group A. However the number of signatures in Groups A and B may vary up to the combined total of 64 signatures.

Base station may respond to endpoint with response that may include a RAR backed by L1 L2 signaling. Endpoint may utilize a reduced BI in LGM PRACH procedure of maximum approximately 128 ms. After a preselected or scheduled passage of time e.g. the reduced BI endpoint may re transmit message to base station . Following receipt of a positive RAR from base station endpoint may proceed with message . Message may also be called Message . Message may include a Scheduled Transmission Message. Further message may include L1 L2 and L3 signaling. Message may also include endpoint identification e.g. C RNTI. The C RNTI may allow base station to uniquely recognize endpoint and may indicate within message that endpoint may be a LGM device. In some embodiments message may include a LGM status

While RA procedure shown in may include four steps ending with resolution LGM PRACH procedure may not complete all four steps due to the expected short duration of the LG interval average of 200 ms. In one embodiment endpoint may not complete contention resolution with resolution . In heavy contention cases endpoint may not be identified by base station because endpoint may not be able to transmit message .

Accordingly in some embodiments due to limited time constraints a successful transmission of message may not occur. If message may not be transmitted and a high collision rate was detected on Preamble Group B possibly as a result of the collision measurements executed on message the network may conclude that a power outage or other mass scale event has occurred and at least some of endpoints may no longer be connected to the wireless network e.g. network of without being able to identify any of the LGM devices. In the illustrated embodiment the transmission may have been received but not properly detected by base station . The information such as measured preamble Group B collision rate may be transmitted to a server such as server of and or other suitable device for subsequent processing and or transmission information may be processed locally at base station .

Similar to LGM PRACH procedure shown in in order to increase the chances one or more endpoints may be detected and or identified the allocation of signatures to the PRACH Group B may be dynamically adjusted. Thus dynamic adjustment of PRACH Group B signatures may allow base station to detect and or identify as many possible endpoints transmitting a LGM. As noted above the BI e.g. the predefined time delay before endpoint sends an additional PRACH transmission if the first transmission is not successful may be reduced to maximum approximately 128 ms. The reduced BI may allow maximum two PRACH Group B preamble transmissions from endpoint to base station given the LGM duration. Multiple PRACH Group B preamble transmissions based on multiple transmissions from multiple endpoints may cause signal collisions at base station when received at base station if the same preamble Group B signatures are selected. Signal collisions may occur if a signal is transmitted from multiple endpoints and received at base station but cannot be properly decoded. If base station computes that PRACH Group B collision rate defined as P Group B is above a predefined allowable collision rate defined as base station may conclude that a power outage or other mass scale event has occurred. As a result base station may attempt to increase PRACH preamble Group B as quickly as possible to the allowed maximum size and or within the maximum allowed time. In some embodiments the time allowed for PRACH Group B expansion defined as T may be a function of the LGM duration. For example T

Further in some embodiments a timer T1 may be inserted following PRACH Group B size being increased to the maximum. T1 may be employed before base station may reduce Preamble Group B back to normal size and or after the collision rate of Preamble Group B is below the predefined allowable collision rate. The duration of T1 may be established according to demands of a specific implementation and or may be determined experimentally. In one embodiment utilizing a timer may avoid multiple instances of high variations of the measured collision rates due to possible inaccuracies in reading the collision rate of Group B signals.

 i Base station detects that the rate of PRACH Group B collisions is below a predefined allowable rate of collisions P Group B 

The rate of PRACH Group B collisions may be determined by the ratio of the number of PRACH Group B collisions and the PRACH Group B capacity 

LGM PRACH procedure may begin with transmission that may include a Regular Random Access Preamble L1 signal communicated from endpoint to base station during or immediately after a power loss or other mass scale event experienced by endpoint . Base station may respond to endpoint with response that may include an RAR. Response may include L1 L2 signaling. Endpoint may utilize a reduced BI in LGM PRACH procedure of maximum approximately 128 ms following the reception of a negative RAR. Following a positive RAR endpoint may send message also called Message . Message may include a Scheduled Transmission Message. Message may include L1 L2 L3 signaling. In some embodiments message may include a LGM status signal. The LGM status signal may indicate that message is from a LGM device.

While RA procedure shown in may include four steps ending with resolution LGM PRACH procedure may not complete all four steps due to the expected short duration of the LG interval average of 200 ms. In one embodiment endpoint may not complete contention resolution step with resolution . In heavy contention cases endpoint may not be identified by base station following a successful reception of message by base station . Further base station may not be able to identify all endpoints attempting to transmit message and it may be sufficient to decode oat least one message in order to trigger LGM Device Identification stages.

In some embodiments LGM PRACH procedure may allow base station to detect a LGM sent by endpoint utilizing an enhanced message . Message may correspond to endpoint that selected a Group A signature. In order to increase the chances that one or more endpoints may be detected and or identified the allocation of the PRACH Group A signatures may be dynamically adjusted. Dynamic adjustment of PRACH Group A signatures may allow base station to detect and or identify as many possible endpoints utilizing message . Further PRACH Group A maximum subframe allocation may be established according to demands of a specific implementation and or may be determined experimentally. In some embodiments PRACH Group A maximum size increase may be determined by a base station scheduler policy. As noted above the BI e.g. the predefined time delay before endpoint sends an additional PRACH L1 transmission may be reduced to maximum approximately 128 ms to allow one endpoint to access PRACH multiple times within the LGM duration. Notably in some embodiments LGM PRACH procedure that identifies a modification of message may not require any changes to L2 and or L3 messages.

 i Base station detects that the rate of PRACH Group A collisions is below a predefined allowable rate of collisions P Group A 

The rate of PRACH Group A collisions may be determined by the ratio of the number of PRACH Group A collisions and the PRACH Group A capacity 

Method may start and at step base station may receive signals for connection of endpoints . Endpoints may subsequently enter idle status or sleep status. At step a base station may receive Group X L1 signals over a PRACH from endpoints. Group X may be Group A B or C depending on the implementation selected. For example base station may receive signals from endpoints . As discussed previously a PRACH may be a shared channel used for initial communication between endpoint and base station for communication between multiple endpoints and for communication of unscheduled messages such as when endpoint goes into idle status or loses power. Thus endpoints may send LGMs to base station by utilizing the PRACH. Further Group X in step and throughout method may represent any group of preambles and or signatures for example Group C of Group B of or Group A of .

At step base station may determine if the rate of PRACH Group X collisions defined as P Group X exceeds a predefined allowable rate of collisions defined as . Thus base station may determine P Group X . As discussed with respect to base station may determine if PRACH Group C collision rate is above a predefined threshold of allowable rate of collisions.

If the rate of PRACH Group X collisions exceeds the predefined allowable rate of collisions then multiple LGMs may be transmitting and a power outage or other mass scale event may be indicated and method may proceed to step . If the rate of PRACH Group X collisions does not exceed the predefined allowable rate of collisions then a power outage or other mass scale event may not have occurred and method may return to step .

At step base station may increase the PRACH Group X allocation by a predetermined factor such as a factor of 4. If a power outage or other mass scale event has occurred and multiple LGMs are being transmitted to base station then rapidly increasing the PRACH Group X size may provide more opportunities for endpoints affected by a power outage or mass scale event to be successfully detected following a L1 PRACH transmission. For example with respect to the signatures allocated to Group C preambles may be increased.

At step base station may again determine if the rate of PRACH Group X collisions defined as P Group X exceeds a predefined allowable rate of collisions defined as . Thus base station may again determine P Group X . If the rate of PRACH Group X collisions still exceeds the predefined allowable rate of collisions then multiple LGMs may be transmitting a power outage or other mass scale event may still be indicated and method may proceed to step . If the rate of PRACH Group X collisions does not exceed the predefined allowable rate of collisions then method may return to step .

At step base station may determine if the elapsed time for PRACH Group X expansion has exceed 0.75 times or other implementation dependent duration the LGM Duration T

At step base station may determine if the PRACH Group X is at the maximum size. The maximum size for a PRACH may be preset and may be established according to demands of a specific implementation. If PRACH Group X is at the maximum allowed size then method may proceed to step . If PRACH Group X is not yet at the maximum allowed size then method may return to step .

At step base station may execute a delay. Such execution may include determining whether a previously user defined or default timer T1 has expired. T1 may be set in order to avoid possible inaccuracies and or variations on measuring the collision rate. In one embodiment T1 may be started when PRACH size is first increased step .

At step base station may again determine if the rate of PRACH Group X collisions defined as P Group X exceeds a predefined allowable rate of collisions defined as . Thus base station may again determine P Group X . If the rate of PRACH Group X collisions still exceeds the predefined allowable rate of collisions then multiple LGMs may be transmitting over Preamble Group X a power outage or other mass scale event may still be indicated and method may return to step . If the rate of PRACH Group X collisions does not exceed the predefined allowable rate of collisions CH then method may return to step .

At step base station may revert the PRACH back to the original size such as the size before the mass event occurred. At step base station may identify endpoints that may have transmitted an LGM. At step base station may begin to receive signals from endpoints that may have previously transmitted an LGM. These signals may be transmitted after power is restored to endpoints and may require a scheduling method based upon how many endpoints attempt to access network at a particular time. Method may then return to step .

All examples and conditional language recited herein are intended for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventor to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions nor does the organization of such examples in the specification relate to a showing of the superiority and inferiority of the invention. Although the embodiments of the present inventions has been described in detail it should be understood that the various changes substitutions and alterations could be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

