---

title: Contact management system
abstract: A family-plan management system integrating family plan widgets on mobile devices that interact with an API maintained and used by a central server is described. The family-plan management system enables high-visibility, low-effort communications between family-plan members as well as easy access to family-plan services offered by the central server. The API automatically identifies family plan members by accessing a database and then implements high-value web and mobile add-on services for the family plan members. The family-plan management system enables control and use of the family plan by the family plan member and enables the carrier to upgrade family plan services without direct action on the part of family plan members.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09047651&OS=09047651&RS=09047651
owner: Location Labs, Inc.
number: 09047651
owner_city: Emeryville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120914
---
Personal mobile devices such as personal computers tablets and smart phones have gained widespread use over a relatively short period of time. Such devices are so common that they are approaching commodity status. Their widespread use and their breathtaking performance have resulted in major changes in the way we look at and use communications.

Most mobile devices rely on a major network operator carrier to provide basic communications texting and support for wireless data and internet access.

The majority of carrier subscribers participate in what are known as family plans families or groups of individuals that enter into a joint billing contract with a carrier. Because of the joint billing contract simply being in a family plan tends to be indicative of a family relationship or the existence of an otherwise close and trusting relationship.

One reason for the widespread use of personal mobile devices is parents obtaining such devices for their children to use. While parents may purchase personal mobile devices for their children for many different reasons one very common reason is to implement a communication lifeline an always available and always open channel that provides direct communications between family members particularly between the parent and child. The availability of such lifelines has motivated parents to obtain personal mobile devices for children of younger and younger ages.

Family plans generally have two main types of users that are referred to herein as parent class users and child class users A parent is a primary account holder who has authorized others to access and use the services of a family plan offered by a carrier. A child is any user whose mobile device has been authorized by the parent to access and use the services of the family plan offered by the carrier. In practice the parent gets billed for the cost of the family plan while the children get free access to the family plan. Generally the parent is also authorized to use the carrier s family plan. A family plan management system that provides for and implements family plan services would be beneficial.

Whether part of a family plan or not modern high performance mobile devices support a variety of different types of software applications specifically including widgets . A widget is a software application having a graphical user interface icon that can be placed on the top level interface of the mobile device with that top level sometimes being referred to as a desktop home screen. Lower level visual interfaces are also provided on desktops. A widget provides an interactive and usually customizable presence on the mobile device desktop home screen. By simply using a widget a user can initiate a programmed action or view pertinent information without leaving the desktop home screen. Additionally by placing the widget on the desktop home screen at mobile device start up the widget can be used without subsequent initializing and or loading.

There are thousands and thousands of widgets currently available. But there is a very limited amount of space on a mobile device desktop home screen. Thus the number of widgets that can be run from the desktop home screen using graphical image interfaces is limited and the competition for the limited mobile device desktop home screen space is intense. Only the most useful widgets are loaded onto the desktop home screen at mobile device start up.

To maximize the number of graphical icons and to provide more visually pleasing desktop home screen widget graphical interfaces can be arranged in tiles. Widget graphical interfaces can either be placed manually by users or automatically arranged on the desktop home screen.

This Summary introduces simplified concepts that are further described below in the Detailed Description of Illustrative Embodiments. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter and is not intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

High visibility low effort communications between family plan members as well as easy access to family plan services offered by a carrier are enabled. A carrier implements a family plan management system comprising an application program interface API that enables automatic identification of members of a family plan based on mobile device numbers and internal carrier databases and the carrier implements high value web and mobile add on services for the family plan members.

Beneficially identifying a mobile device user who is part of a family plan is performed by first identifying the mobile device user using the mobile device number and then cross referencing that mobile device user using a carrier database to identify family plan members. This avoids having to obtain financial information from the individual mobile device users while allowing automatic activation of family plan add on services.

The family plan management system further provides each family plan mobile device user with a family plan widget that automatically implements a desktop graphical user interface that enables easy communication access to other family plan members and easy access to other services provided by the carrier to family plan members. The family plan management system enables a carrier to add new family plan services and members without having to directly authorize or notify the individual family plan members that are eligible for new services.

A family plan widget may enable a range of family plan services using graphical user interfaces. Some family plan services may require the availability of one or more supporting applications. A family plan widget may detect if a required supporting application is installed and if not installed or if the family plan service being requested is not subscribed too the family plan widget may provide the user with an opportunity to obtain the required supporting application or implement the desired service.

A computer implemented method including the steps of generating within a graphical user interface a contact representation that corresponds to a particular contact is provided. A communication action representation a location action representation and a control action representation corresponding to the particular contact are generated responsive to a user actuation of the contact representation. Instructions are transmitted for controlling a mobile device corresponding to the particular contact based on the user actuation of the control representation.

The computer implemented method may further include transmitting instructions for locating the mobile device corresponding to the particular contact responsive to a user actuation of the location action representation. The contact representation may further include at least one icon of the particular user and the name of the particular user. The instructions for controlling the mobile device can include instructions that restrict access to at least one functional component of the mobile device. The instructions for controlling the mobile device can include instructions can restrict use of at least one communication functionality and electronic messaging functionality.

The computer implemented method can further include receiving location information and or use information of the mobile device and then providing a notification that corresponds to the location information and or the use information. The computer implemented method can include receiving at least one of location information and use information that correspond to the mobile device and providing a notification on the graphical user interface. The graphical user interface can include a plurality of contact representations that respectively correspond to a plurality of contacts. The graphical user interface can include a communication action representation a location action representation and a control action representation that correspond to a particular one of the plurality of contacts responsive to a user actuation of the contact representation and instructions can be transmitted for controlling a mobile device that correspond to the particular user responsive to a user actuation of the control representation.

In the figures like numbers refer to like elements. Furthermore the terms a and an as used herein do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced items.

Referring to a family plan management system is shown supported by an application programming interface API and mobile device family plan widgets that implement graphical user interface icons used for obtaining family plan services. As used herein the term family plan can be used to denote any organized grouping of computer users which users may be described generically as co members of the plan. Typical mobile devices include smartphones tablet computers laptop computers and other devices that support graphical user interface icons and wireless communications.

The central server provides data voice picture and other services to members of a family plan shown in as member A member B member C and member D . In addition there are other users who are not part of the family plan . Those other users are generically represented by users and . Each family plan member has a mobile device . The users and have mobile devices . The functional difference between the mobile device and the mobile device is that the mobile devices run family plan widgets .

The family plan management system implements capabilities that expand the benefits and utility of the family plan via the API and the family plan widgets that run on the member mobile devices . Non family plan members cannot make use of the benefits and utility of the family plan . The family plan management system enables family plan members to obtain family plan services using graphical interface icons including desktop home screen family plan widget icons thus saving valuable graphical user interface space and enabling fast and easy delivery of family plan services.

Still referring to the next level of abstract hierarchical progression is firmware if required. Firmware is useful for enabling upgrading of the mobile device by storing in non volatile memory settings such as model numbers version numbers and controlling bits which establish a set of functions and limit or restrict the mobile device s capabilities.

Moving up the abstract hierarchical progression from the firmware is an operating system . The operating system provides a set of core software programs that manage the semiconductor hardware and firmware and implement common services for application software. The operating system includes a low level kernel routine that handles basic software integration to the firmware and hardware to implement underlying functions. In practice the kernel is used across a family of mobile devices. Over the kernel is a set of core services that while still basic may change from time to time or from family device to family device. The core services are software functions that support the on board services of the mobile device . In the mobile device the core services include software routines that support and enable obtaining location information such as from a GPS routine . Overlaying the operating system is the family plan widget .

Referring now again to as previously noted the central server includes the API . The API is part of the operating software of the central server . The operating software controls the operations of the central server the API implements the carrier based functions of the family plan management system while the family plan widget implements the mobile device functions of the family plan management system .

The family plan management system depends on the existence of a family plan . With a family plan established and in use the central server can automatically build and improve family plan services over the carrier network without needing to authorize and individually identify family plan members that are eligible for the new or improved services.

To create a family plan a user first indicates an interest in a family plan to the carrier typically by visiting a mobile device store a web site or by obtaining and installing a special mobile phone app. If a mobile phone app is being used the central server automatically obtains the user mobile device phone number. Otherwise the user is asked to input their mobile device number. The user mobile device number is then authenticated by the central server by having the server interrogate its database . The authenticated user mobile device number is then used as the family plan identification. One or more messages and or SMS verification codes are sent by the central server to the user mobile device number. The user then sends the verification code back to the central server thus establishing proper credentials to implement a family plan .

The central server then obtains either from its database another accessible database or from the parent the identifications of the members to be added to the user s family plan . If the user is a parent for example members added may include the parent s children. The identification includes the mobile device numbers of the family plan members. The user then verifies which members should be in the family plan . Once members are selected the central server automatically creates the family plan and retains the family plan members in the database as being part of the family plan . Depending on the particularities of the family plan each member may have to authorize being added to the family plan . For example each member mobile device can be sent a notification and provide consent responsive thereto to be activated by the central server .

With the family plan implemented and its members authenticated and added to the database the central server initiates operation of the family plan management system . The family plan management system integrates the operations of family plan widgets and the API to provide family plan services. For example the family plan management system enables a user e.g. parent via his family plan widget to be able to locate any member e.g. child mobile device by interrogating the central server using the API . illustrates a prototypical screenshot of a mobile device displaying a family plan widget having 4 members. The family plan widget displays graphical user interface icons for selected family plan members. There may be more family plan members than displayed graphical user interface icons. The graphical user interface icons enable quick and efficient family plan service functions.

The family plan widget enables a range of family plan services using graphical user interfaces. Some of those family plan services may require the availability of one or more supporting applications. The family plan widget beneficially detects if a required supporting application is installed on a mobile device . If a required supporting application is not installed the family plan widget provides the parent user with an opportunity to obtain the required supporting application. Preferably this is performed by tapping a corresponding purchase action in a widget that provides the parent the opportunity to purchase the required supporting application.

As an example if a family plan widget is installed on a child user s mobile device the family plan widget may include a locate action that requires a missing GPS supporting application. When the child user initiates the locate action the parent user is provided with an opportunity to purchase the GPS supporting application. Alternatively if the family plan management system allows for child purchases of missing supporting applications the child will be provided with the opportunity to obtain the GPS supporting application instead of the parent.

In addition not all family plan management systems may include all available family plan services. For example a carrier may provide family plan management systems using a menu of services each of which costs money. Some family plan management systems may chose not to include location finding. However the family plan widget may provide the opportunity to find the location of a user. A user who attempts to locate another user may be provided with the opportunity to add location finding. Alternatively depending on the configuration of the family plan the parent user may be provided with the opportunity to upgrade services.

Turning now to the family plan management system operates in accord with operation . Operation starts step and proceeds by establishing a family plan step as described above. Family plan widgets are distributed to the family plan members step and reference . This is performed by the server operating in accord with the API to send family plan widgets to one or more members of the family plan .

After the family plan widgets are distributed each family plan widget is initialized step . At initialization a family plan member installs its received family plan widget and the member s mobile device contacts the central server . The central server obtains the member s mobile device phone number and the server searches the database identifies all family plan members in the family plan of the installing member and sends that identification information to the member s mobile device . Thus each member is supplied with information as to who is in his her family plan .

The operation proceeds by having the installing family plan widget implement a suggested set of graphic icons reference on the desktop home screen to be icon contacts step . It should be understood that there may well be more family plan members than can be reasonably given icons on the desktop home screen . To address that issue the operation proceeds by having the user of a mobile device customize their mobile device by either accepting the selected set of graphic icons or by selecting other family plan members to be given graphic icons on the desktop home screen step . That selection enables a family plan member to tailor their desktop home screen to suit their needs and available desktop home screen space.

Following step the family plan widget determines if a graphic icon representing a family plan member or another contact has been selected such as by tapping step . If not the operation returns to step and waits for a user to select a graphic icon . After a user selects a graphic icon of a family plan member the family plan widget causes the mobile device s desktop home screen to switch to a lower level display showing a set of graphic action icons that represent supported family plan services such as calling the selected family plan member sending the selected member SMS text messages locating the selected family plan member or another family plan specific service associated with the selected member step .

Returning now to operation with the desktop screen displayed the user selects a graphic action icon to automatically perform a supported service step . presents screen shots that assist understanding step . The far left screen illustrates a user selecting a graphic icon for a family plan member Charles . In response to selecting the Charles graphic icon the family plan widget presents a lower level desktop screen showing graphic action icons of family plan supported services such as electronic texting represented by graphic action icon . The user then selects the graphic action icon . In response the family plan widget brings up a Text screen that automatically includes information for Charles such as his name phone number and information that automatically identifies him as the message recipient.

After step is completed the family plan widget returns to step to await the selection of another family plan member icon . The operation has no stop as it is meant to continue operating indefinitely until some external action forces a stop or reset.

The foregoing has described the family plan management system mostly with reference to the operation of the family plan widgets . In practice a family plan widget may simply call forth a locally resident application such as texting to fulfill the required operation. Similarly the locate action could be fulfilled by calling forth a local application that is resident on the user s phone. In such cases the family plan widget acts as a convenient user interface to a range of locally available services. However the family plan management system may rely on the API to implement central server based functions. This flexibility enables the family plan management system to use both locally available and remotely available services. shows operational details of step when it is using functions primarily provided by the API .

Referring to step starts step and proceeds with the API sending what is referred to herein as a push notification to the family plan widgets and mobile devices . A push notification informs family plan widgets of incoming API generated signals such as notifications of new family plan members or new or improved services step . The API pushes family plan member notifications of family plan changes to family plan members. Accessing the database to identify family plan members should be understood as being part of the operation .

In addition to pushing notifications to family plan members the API can pull information either automatically or when requested by a family plan member from family plan members step . An example of pulling information would be a family plan member using a family plan widget to find the location of one or more family plan members. For example in the graphic action icons include a Locate action icon . To find the locations of family plan member a user selects the action icon . In response the family plan widget sends a message to the central server to locate selected family plan member. The API then interrogates the central server network to locate the selected family plan member for example by finding the closest tower to the family plan member s by interrogating the location sensors on the mobile devices by a triangulation between central server towers or other suitable method of locating a mobile device.

The example of locating family plan members is instructive as it postulates various possibilities of operation. In one implementation only a parent would be authorized to use the API to locate a family member. In another implementation location information of a particular family plan member can be sent to a user automatically without a request from the user. In another implementation a user is enabled to locate a family plan member only at designated times.

Use of API is not limited to location finding or notification sending. The API enables users e.g. parents to actively control member devices e.g. their children s devices step . For example by using the API parents can control child mobile devices step . Referring to a parent user selecting a graphic user icon for a family plan child member can lock predetermined functions of that child member s phone by pressing the Lock icon . Further a parent can use the API to restrict the child member s device usage either automatically such as when the API detects motion of a child mobile device auto lock or when a parent initiates scheduled or on demand restrictions timed lock .

The API can be used to implement other features. For example a parent can be provided with real time and aggregated information on the usage of a child s mobile device . Such information can be kept by the API and stored in the database as required for future access.

The family plan management system has been described as having a rather limited number of available options such as communications and location finding. However it should be clearly understood that those represent only a small fraction of possible family plan management system services and options. The goal is to have an extendable family plan management system that is highly flexible and adaptable over time by either adding or removing options.

Family plan widgets support both Portrait as in and Landscape as in representations of family plan graphic icons as well as intelligent icon placement to reduce the impact of the family plan widget on the desktop home screen. As an example the family plan widget can be placed anywhere on the desktop home screen of the mobile device where at least 4 consecutive horizontal screen tiles are available. If the family plan widget is placed at the bottom of the device screen the family member icons appear above a row of family member asset icons.

Methods described herein may be implemented in a computer program software or firmware incorporated in a computer readable medium for execution by a computer or processor. Although features and elements are described above in particular combinations one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that each feature or element can be used alone or in any combination with the other features and elements. Further while embodiments have been described in detail above these embodiments are non limiting and should be considered as merely exemplary. Modifications and extensions may be developed and all such modifications are deemed to be within the scope defined by the appended claims.

