---

title: System and method for product optimization
abstract: A method includes maintaining product sales information according to a data model. The data model includes a consumer-demographics naming convention, a retail-provider-type naming convention, and a product-naming convention. The maintaining includes indexing the product sales information by consumer-demographics information, by retail-provider-type information, and by product-categorization information. The method further includes receiving raw sales information and translating the raw sales information into the data model. In addition the method includes storing the translated raw sales information as part of the product sales information. Furthermore, the method includes receiving a request for aggregation of at least a portion of the product sales information. The request specifies an intersection of the product-categorization information, the consumer-demographic information, and the retail-provider-type information. The method also includes, responsive to the request, aggregating the at least a portion of the product sales information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09405754&OS=09405754&RS=09405754
owner: Andrews Distributing Company, LLC
number: 09405754
owner_city: Dallas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120802
---
This application claims priority from and incorporates by reference the entire disclosure of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 515 758 filed on Aug. 5 2011.

The present invention relates generally to sales optimization and more particularly but not by way of limitation to systems and methods for optimizing product sales via a plurality of naming conventions.

Most product supply chains include a manufacturer or producer of a product a plurality of retail providers that provide the product for sale and a consumer who ultimately receives the product. In industries involving supply chains for goods it is common for the product supply chain to further include a distributor that distributes products from the manufacturer to retail providers. Although individual entities in product supply chains each benefit from optimizing products for improved sales in a competitive marketplace specific sales data on which to base product optimization is generally not available.

In addition sales of a given product can vary significantly based on many factors that include consumer demographics and a type of retail provider offering the given product for sale. For example consumers living in an urban environment may have a proclivity for different categories of products than consumers living in a rural environment. In a similar fashion a given product may sell far better in some types of retail providers e.g. grocery stores than in others e.g. convenience stores . However retail providers manufacturers or producers and distributors often cannot reliably determine in advance which products will sell best at a particular retail provider or alternatively which retail providers are good choices for placement of a product in the marketplace.

Current optimization methods apply product optimization in an ad hoc manner based on for example domain knowledge of an individual or raw projections that are not adequately supported by actual sales data. Therefore current methods are not optimal for purposes of applying product optimization in a consistent and repeatable manner.

In one embodiment a method includes in a product analytics database maintaining product sales information according to a data model. The data model includes a consumer demographics naming convention a retail provider type naming convention and a product naming convention. The maintaining includes indexing the product sales information by consumer demographics information pursuant to the consumer demographics naming convention by retail provider type information pursuant to the retail provider type naming convention and by product categorization information pursuant to the product naming convention. The method further includes receiving by a server computer raw sales information and translating by the server computer the raw sales information into the data model. In addition the method includes storing the translated raw sales information as part of the product sales information. Furthermore the method includes receiving by the server computer a request for aggregation of at least a portion of the product sales information. The request specifies an intersection of the product categorization information the consumer demographic information and the retail provider type information. The method also includes responsive to the request the server computer aggregating the at least a portion of the product sales information.

In one embodiment a system includes a product analytics database that maintains product sales information. The product sales information is maintained according to a data model that includes a consumer demographics naming convention a retail provider type naming convention and a product naming convention. The product sales information is indexed by consumer demographics information pursuant to the consumer demographics naming convention by retail provider type information pursuant to the retail provider type naming convention and by product categorization information pursuant to the product naming convention. The system further includes a server computer in data communication with the product analytics database. The server computer is operable to receive raw sales information translate the raw sales information into the data model and store the translated raw sales information as part of the product sales information. The server computer is further operable to receive a request for aggregation of at least a portion of the product sales information. The request specifies an intersection of the product categorization information the consumer demographics information and the retail provider type information. In addition responsive to the request the server computer is operable to aggregate the at least a portion of the product sales information.

In one embodiment a computer program product includes a computer usable medium having computer readable program code embodied therein. The computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement a method. The method includes in a product analytics database maintaining product sales information according to a data model. The data model includes a consumer demographics naming convention a retail provider type naming convention and a product naming convention. The maintaining includes indexing the product sales information by consumer demographics information pursuant to the consumer demographics naming convention by retail provider type information pursuant to the retail provider type naming convention and by product categorization information pursuant to the product naming convention. The method further includes receiving by a server computer raw sales information and translating by the server computer the raw sales information into the data model. In addition the method includes storing the translated raw sales information as part of the product sales information. Furthermore the method includes receiving by the server computer a request for aggregation of at least a portion of the product sales information. The request specifies an intersection of the product categorization information the consumer demographic information and the retail provider type information. The method also includes responsive to the request the server computer aggregating the at least a portion of the product sales information.

The above summary of the invention is not intended to represent each embodiment or every aspect of the present invention.

In various embodiments inventive principles described herein enable improved organization and categorization of sales data that can be leveraged to the benefit of stakeholders throughout product supply chains. For purposes of this patent application a product is a good or a service that is ultimately provided or marketed to a consumer. In various embodiments a data model for expressing product sales is established that utilizes a product naming convention to describe categories of products a consumer demographics naming convention to describe categories of consumers and a retail provider type naming convention to describe categories of retail providers. In various embodiments sales data stored according to the data model may be leveraged by stakeholders such as for example retail providers manufacturers and distributors to optimize placement of products in a competitive marketplace.

In a typical embodiment the product analytics database implements a data model that conforms to the pre established naming conventions of the product optimization system that is the product naming convention the consumer demographics naming convention and the retail provider type naming convention. In various embodiments the pre established naming conventions may be expressed as a tree structure. Via the data model the product analytics database maintains sales information by retail provider type category by product category and by consumer demographics category. In that way the product analytics database is typically operable to aggregate sales information by any combination of one or more consumer demographics categories one or more retail provider type categories and one or more product categories. In a typical embodiment the product analytics database thereby drives the optimization functionality of the product optimization system . In various embodiments the product analytics database may represent a single database as illustrated or be representative of a plurality of product analytics databases in a distributed environment.

In a typical embodiment the sales database is a source for raw sales information. In a typical embodiment the raw sales information identifies product sales by retail provider and product but is not necessarily stored by the sales database in conformance to the data model of the product analytics database . Rather via the API the raw sales information is translated into the data model of the product analytics database . The API may provide access to the product analytics database for example via an open database connectivity ODBC interface.

In a typical embodiment the sales database belongs to a stakeholder in a product supply chain. For example in various embodiments the sales database may be a database belonging to a distributor or a plurality of distributors that distributes products from manufacturers to retail providers that are the distributor s customers. In these embodiments the sales database may provide raw sales information that comprehensively describes for the distributor s customers sales of products that the distributor distributes. By way of further example in various embodiments the sales database may be a database of a manufacturer that provides for example raw sales information that comprehensively describes sales of the manufacturer s products. Although the sales database is illustrated singly in various embodiments the sales database may be representative of a plurality of sales databases. For example the sales database may represent a plurality of databases from a plurality of retail providers that have agreed to share sales information for example in exchange for access to optimization features of the product optimization system .

The retail consumer database typically maintains information on retail providers in a two fold fashion. First the retail providers may be identified according to the consumer demographics naming convention. In various embodiments each of the retail providers may be placed into one of a plurality of categories indicative of consumer demographics in a geographical area served by the retail providers. Second the retail providers may be identified according to the retail provider type naming convention. In various embodiments each of the retail providers may be placed into one of a plurality of categories indicative of a type of retail provider e.g. grocery store convenience store etc. . In a typical embodiment the retail consumer database is intended to be comprehensive and is regularly updated to include new retail providers. In various embodiments information from the retail consumer database may be offered as a service by a third party service provider.

In operation the product analytics database receives raw sales information from the sales database via the API . In various embodiments the raw sales information may be received at regular intervals e.g. daily . The raw sales information typically identifies sales by product and by retail provider. The API allows the product analytics database to accept raw sales information from databases that store data according to diverse data formats. Via the API the raw sales information is translated into the data model of the product analytics database . As described above the sales database may represent a single database as illustrated or be representative of a plurality of sales databases that all provide raw sales information to the product analytics database .

The product analytics database receives consumer demographics information and retail provider type information from the retail consumer database . For example in various embodiments the product analytics database provides the retail consumer database information related to each retail provider identified by the sales information maintained therein. The retail consumer database typically responds with a consumer demographics category according to the consumer demographics naming convention and a retail provider type category according to the retail provider type naming convention for each retail provider. In that way the product analytics database may maintain the sales information in conformance with the consumer demographics naming convention and the retail provider type naming convention in addition to the product naming convention. The product analytics database may request and receive consumer demographics information and retail provider type information at regular intervals such as for example monthly.

In a typical embodiment the product optimization system is portable across industries. For example the product optimization system may be implemented in the beverage industry to describe beverages and sales of beverages at restaurants grocery stores and the like. By way of further example the product optimization system may be implemented in other industries to describe sales of food products automobiles electronics and other products. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the product optimization system may be utilized in any industry by substituting an appropriate product naming convention an appropriate retail provider type naming convention and an appropriate consumer demographics naming convention. In some embodiments the product analytics database may be maintained by a distributor of products and the product optimization system may be provided by the distributor as a service to manufacturers producers and retail providers.

As will be described in more detail below with respect to the ensuing figures the product analytics database is operable to serve reports and analytics to the plurality of client computing devices . In various embodiments the client computing devices may include desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers smartphones and other appropriate client computing devices . Reports and analytics may be served on demand for example via the website via a native application designed for a particular client platform or via an HTML5 application.

In a typical embodiment a product optimization may be initiated via selection of a model market . As used herein a model market is a selection of one or more consumer demographics categories and one or more retail provider type categories. As illustrated in the Venn graph the model market may be expressed as an intersection of the retail provider type information and the consumer demographics information . For example the model market may encompass convenience stores i.e. a retail provider type category in a suburban setting i.e. a consumer demographics category .

In a typical embodiment an intersection of the retail provider type information and the product categorization information represents an available assortment of products from which a retail provider may select to offer for sale to consumers. In a typical embodiment an intersection of the consumer demographics information and the product categorization information represents an ability of the product analytics database of to maintain product category preferences for consumer demographics categories.

In a typical embodiment selection of the model market enables identification of an optimal assortment of products to be sold or marketed to the model market . The optimal assortment is reflected in the Venn graph as an intersection of the consumer demographics information the retail provider type information and the product categorization information . In other words the optimal assortment generally includes a strategic subset of the available assortment of products that the product category preferences indicate are preferred by consumer demographics in the model market .

Table 1 below describes an exemplary retail provider type naming convention an exemplary consumer demographics naming convention and exemplary model markets based on marketing data provided by the Nielsen Company. The examples provided in Table 1 are with respect to embodiments in which a product optimization system such as for example the product optimization system of is utilized in the beverage industry. Table 1 depicts the exemplary consumer demographics naming convention via a plurality of consumer demographics categories that are listed in the Neighborhood column. In particular Table 1 lists six consumer demographics categories of Affluent Suburban Spreads Comfortable Country Cosmopolitan Centers Modest Working Towns Plain Rural Living and Struggling Urban Cores. 

Table 1 below further describes the exemplary retail provider type naming convention in columns labeled PremiseType Channel and SubChannel. The exemplary retail provider type naming convention may be considered a tree that extends from a root to two premises types of OffPremise and OnPremise. Each of the two premises types has a plurality of channels that is reflected in the Channel column. Each of the plurality of channels has a sub channel that is reflected in the SubChannel column. Each line item in Table 1 is an intersection of the exemplary retail provider type naming convention and the consumer demographics naming convention. Therefore Table 1 may be considered a listing of model markets for the beverage industry. Each model market in Table 1 may include for example a plurality of retail providers.

At step a consumer demographics category for the retail provider is acquired. In a typical embodiment the consumer demographics category for the retail provider is stored for example by the product analytics database of according to the consumer demographics naming convention. From step the process proceeds to step . At step a retail provider type category for the retail provider is acquired. In a typical embodiment the retail provider type category for the retail provider is stored for example by the product analytics database of according to the retail provider type naming convention. From step the process proceeds to step .

At step an optimal assortment of products for the retail provider is identified. In a typical embodiment the retail provider type category acquired at step and the consumer demographics category acquired at step define a model market. The optimal assortment is generally identified via a comparison of product sales among other retail providers in the model market. The product sales that are compared are typically identified according to a product naming convention such as for example the product naming convention implemented by the product optimization system of . The optimal assortment generally includes top selling products within the model market as defined for example by rates of sale or volume per outlet VPO . From step the process proceeds to step .

At step a current product assortment for the retail provider is compared with the optimal assortment. As part of step differences between the current product assortment and the optimal product assortment are generally determined i.e. gap identification . From step the process proceeds to step . At step the retail provider or distributor acts on the optimal assortment for example by adding products from the optimal assortment to the products being offered for sale by the retail provider. The retail may also review sales and the assortment of products being offered for sale as part of a continual improvement process. From step the process ends.

At step the existing product is selected via a product naming convention such as for example the product naming convention implemented by the product optimization system of . For example with respect to the existing product may be selected at the item level . From step the process proceeds to step . At step sales of the existing product are filtered according to model market. For example model markets may be listed and sorted by rate of sales per store or VPO. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the model markets are assessed. Model market assessment typically involves identifying retail providers in top model markets e.g. model markets having a high rate of sales or VPO that do not currently sell the existing product i.e. unpenetrated retail providers or are greatly underperforming relative to an applicable top model market as a whole i.e. underperforming retail providers . From step the process proceeds to step .

At step an actionable plan is developed. With respect to the unpenetrated retail providers and the underperforming retail providers identified at step the actionable plan typically specifies steps designed to extend the existing product s distribution and or improve product marketing. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the actionable plan is validated by sales staff. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the actionable plan is implemented via proposals to the underperforming retail providers and the unpenetrated retail providers. Each proposal can include for example rates of sale and VPO for the model market to which a particular underperforming or unpenetrated retail provider belongs. Each proposal can further include projected profit gains. From step the process proceeds to step . At step results of the actionable plan are reviewed and monitored for additional growth opportunities. From step the process ends.

At step a benchmark product is selected from among existing products that are described by a product naming convention such as for example the product naming convention implemented by the product optimization system of . For example with respect to the benchmark product may be selected at the item level . The benchmark product is generally a product that is considered to be comparable to the new product. From step the process proceeds to step . At step sales of the benchmark product are filtered according to model market. For example model markets may be listed and sorted by rate of sales per store or VPO. The model markets may also be compared by way of a graph that depicts a distribution curve. Model markets having a high rate of sales or VPO relative to others may be considered top model markets. Top retail providers within the top model markets may represent an initial target list for the new product. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the model markets and its retail providers are assessed. Assessment typically involves identifying additional retail providers for the initial target list that do not currently sell the benchmark product i.e. unpenetrated retail providers . From step the process proceeds to step .

At step an actionable plan is developed. The actionable plan typically specifies steps designed to market the new product to the retail providers in the initial target list. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the actionable plan is validated by sales staff. From step the process proceeds to step . At step the actionable plan is implemented via proposals to retail providers on the initial target list. Each proposal can include for example rates of sale and VPO for the benchmark product in a model market to which a particular retail provider belongs. Each proposal can further include projected profit gains for the new product. From step the process proceeds to step . At step results of the actionable plan are reviewed and monitored for growth opportunities. From step the process ends.

The main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of the instructions to be executed by the processor . The computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information and instructions for the processor . A computer readable storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is coupled to the bus for storing information and instructions for the processor . The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a user. An input device including for example alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direct information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display . The cursor control typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allow the device to specify positions in a plane.

The term computer readable instructions as used above refers to any instructions that may be performed by the processor and or other component of the computer system . Similarly the term computer readable medium refers to any storage medium that may be used to store the computer readable instructions. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as the main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires of the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of the computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal. An infrared detector coupled to the bus can receive the data carried in the infrared signal and place the data on the bus . The bus carries the data to the main memory from which the processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the main memory may optionally be stored on the storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

The computer system may also include a communication interface coupled to the bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling between the computer system and a network. For example the communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modem used to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example the communication interface may be a local area network LAN card used to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation the communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic optical or other signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. The storage device can further include instructions for carrying out various processes for image processing as described herein when executed by the processor . The storage device can further include a database for storing data relative to same.

Although various embodiments of the method and apparatus of the present invention have been illustrated in the accompanying Drawings and described in the foregoing Detailed Description it will be understood that the invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed but is capable of numerous rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the spirit of the invention as set forth herein.

