---

title: Shock mitigating universal launch and recovery system
abstract: A universal launch and recovery system that may be used to launch or recover/receive water vessels. The launch and recovery system including a deployable ramp having a shock mitigating arrangement, including bumpers, fenders and a bow stopping guard arranged to accommodate vessels of different geometries.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08821066&OS=08821066&RS=08821066
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08821066
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120628
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

This application is related to U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 13 034 061 filing date 24 Feb. 2011 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Universal Launch and Recovery System by inventor Matthew Caccamo.

The following description relates generally to a universal launch and recovery system more particularly a launch and recovery system including a deployable ramp having a shock mitigating arrangement including fenders and a bow stopping guard arranged to accommodate vessels of different geometries.

The recovery of smaller surface water vessels such as manned or unmanned surface water vessels USVs by larger parent ships is an emerging technology. Once recovered by the parent ship servicing operations such as fueling and general maintenance may be performed. The recovery of a smaller vessel may be accomplished by driving the smaller vessel alongside a stationary parent ship and lifted by davit into the ship. Alternatively the smaller water vessel may be driven up a ramp into the larger ship.

Traditional methods of launching and recovering receiving smaller surface water vessels can cause damage to the hull of the smaller vessel. For example some USVs weigh about 20 000 lbs and are made from materials such as aluminum. A recovering method that for example requires a USV to be driven into a parent ship or be lifted and dropped onto the parent ship can cause damage to the aluminum hull resulting in expensive repairs. The prior art does not teach operator friendly methods and apparatuses that launch and recover smaller vessels using a plurality of fixed elements that are capable of capturing vessels having a range of different hull geometries whilst mitigating the shock the water vessels are subjected to.

In one aspect the invention is a shock mitigating universal launch and recovery ramp system for launching and recovering a water vessel having a hull with a bow and a stern. The shock mitigating system has a pivotable ramp with a forward edge a pivot edge a portside edge and a starboard edge. The forward and the pivot edges are substantially perpendicular to the portside and starboard edges with the pivotable ramp pivotable at the pivot edge so that the ramp moves between a stowed position and deployed position for launching and receiving a water vessel. According to the invention the pivotable ramp includes a receiving region extending from the forward edge of the ramp the receiving region having plurality of receiving bumpers arranged substantially parallel to the forward and pivot edges of the ramp. The ramp also includes an aligning region extending from a central portion of the ramp to the pivot edge the aligning region having portside and starboard fender rails for centrally aligning the water vessel on the pivotable ramp. The ramp further includes a projecting mount at the pivot edge of the ramp the projecting mount having portside and starboard rails extending forwardly over the pivot edge to form a bow stopping guard that overhangs the pivot edge of the ramp.

According to an embodiment of the invention the fenders are made from an ultra high molecular weight polyethylene UHMW material. is an exemplary sectional illustration of the substantially identical fenders showing exemplary dimensions. As shown in the flat bottom plate portion has a length L and a height H. also shows the fenders having a non stressed separation Sbetween the flat bottom plate portion and the substantially C shaped upper plate portion . The fenders also have a material thickness T. shows the fenders having a longitudinal length L. According to an embodiment of the invention Lis about 50 inches L is about 10 inches His about 3.5 inches Tis about 0.625 inches and SF is about 1.375 inches.

According to an embodiment of the invention the fenders are made from an ultra high molecular weight polyethylene UHMW material. is an exemplary sectional illustration of the substantially identical elongated fenders showing exemplary dimensions. As shown in the flat bottom plate portion has a length l and a height h. also shows the fenders having a non stressed separation sbetween the flat bottom plate portion and the substantially C shaped upper plate portion . The fenders also have a material thickness t. also shows the fenders having longitudinal length sections l l l and l. According to an embodiment of the invention l l and lare about 48 inches and l is about 58 inches. Additionally according to this embodiment l is about 18.5 inches his about 8.5 inches tis about 0.75 inches and sis about 4.0 inches.

The aligning region also includes a portside stanchion and a starboard stanchion . The stanchions are illustrated in . As shown in the stanchions may pivot about a hinge to move from a substantially vertical orientation to a substantially horizontal orientation. The stanchions and are provided on either side of the fenders and respectively. The stanchions when deployed in the substantially vertical orientation provide additional support for water vessels being launched and or received depending on the size of the water vessel . The stanchions also provides operators with a visual as to the location of the ramp allowing for the centering of the water vessel during recovery operations. The stanchions may have an aluminum frame with Delrin rollers.

As shown in the portside and starboard pipe structures and are substantially identical. The portside pipe structure includes a first upwardly extending pipe having a lower end connected to the portside rail via an attachment plate . The portside pipe structure includes a second upwardly extending pipe having a lower end connected to the portside rail via an attachment plate . A third pipe is connected to the upper end of pipe and to the upper end of pipe . Similarly the starboard pipe structure includes a first upwardly extending pipe having a lower end connected to the starboard rail via an attachment plate . The starboard pipe structure includes a second upwardly extending pipe having a lower end connected to the starboard rail via an attachment plate . A third pipe is connected to the upper end of pipe and to the upper end of pipe .

The releasable connector may be provided to release the angled pipe from the upwardly extending pipe . When released both the portside pipe structure and the starboard pipe structure may pivot outwards independently. Regarding the starboard pipe structure the outward pivoting may be achieved by pivotally connecting the out edges of attachment plates and . Similarly regarding the portside pipe structure the outward pivoting may be achieved by pivotally connecting the outer edges of attachment plates and to the respective rails and . shows the structures and in the deployed positions and also in the pivoted stowed positions and .

As outlined above the bow stopping guard has a shape that is complementary to the bow of a water vessel . In order to provide this complimentary shape the portside and starboard pipe structures and are angled as illustrated. For example regarding the starboard pipe structure as shown in using the XYZ coordinate reference system both the upwardly extending pipes and lean forward in the X direction. Pipe also leans forward in the Z direction whereas pipe leans backwards in the Z direction. The portside pipe structure mirrors the starboard pipe structure . Thus in the directions from the lower ends towards the upper ends the pipes and extend away from each other. Whereas in the directions from the lower ends towards the upper ends the pipes and extend towards each other. This skewed pipe formation of the pipe structures and in combination with the angled connecting pipe provides the bow complimentary shape of the bow stopping guard .

The above outlined structure facilitates the launch and or recovery of water vessels . In operation the ramp is deployed to a position in which the forward edge is submerged beneath the surrounding water. The ramp may be moved by using a hydraulic pneumatic arrangement. The deployed position in which the forward edge is submerged allows for a smooth transition from the ramp to the water during launching operations or from the water to the ramp during recovery operations. As outlined above the ramp is designed to receive water vessels of various hull geometries and also to mitigate the shock associated with launch and recovery operations.

During receiving recovery operations the selected water vessel is directed towards the ramp at a low velocity. When the parent ship is at rest the selected water vessel is directed at a preferred speed of about 5 to 8 about knots. If the parent ship is moving the preferred speed is about 5 to about 8 knots faster than the moving ramp. If the water vessel approaches the ramp at a speed slower than about 5 knots an operator may attach a skiff hook to the bow eye and pull the water vessel up onto the ramp . Water vessels traveling at speeds greater than about 8 knots will engage internal brakes that will slow the vessel to a manageable speed.

The above stated velocities provide the initial momentum necessary to climb the ramp . are exemplary perspective illustrations of a water vessel being launched or recovered on the ramp . As outlined above in the deployed position about 50 to about 90 or more of the ramp may be submerged below the surface of the surrounding water. shows the waterline which is at or above 90 of the ramp . Consequently the water vessels would not contact the bumpers during launching or recovery operations. However the bumpers are positioned at the forward edge for emergency situations where there is a severe drop in the water level on account of the sea state and or the motion of the ship . In those circumstances the water vessel may contact the bumpers . Thus during receiving recovery operations the bumpers slow down the speed of the vessels being received and prevents damage to the hull of the water vessel . By braking the speed of the water vessel being recovered the bumpers also reduce the possibility of injury to sailors working on these launch or recovery operations. The elastomeric material of the bumpers also mitigates shock associated with recovery operations.

During receiving recovery operations the water vessel typically first contacts the first pair of fenders . When the bow of the water vessel contacts the first pair of fenders the water vessel undergoes an initial alignment. is an explanatory illustration showing the alignment of the water vessel caused by contact with the first pair of fenders according to an embodiment of the invention. shows the orientation of the water vessel in solid lines when the vessel initially contacts the pair of fenders . The alignment is due to the contact and the point loading at the fenders . The alignment adjusted position of the water vessel after contact with the first pair is shown in dashed lines. As shown a central longitudinal axis of the vessel is more closely aligned with the longitudinal axis of the ramp . It should be noted that in embodiments in which the water vessel contacts the bumpers the water vessel would typically contact the first pair of fenders in a similar fashion as outlined above and a similar alignment takes place at the fenders .

After contacting the first pair of fenders and undergoing an initial alignment the water vessel continues up the ramp and contacts the elongated fenders . As outlined above the first fenders are separated from each other by a distance D which is greater than the separation d of the second pair of fenders . This difference in separation distances allows for a funneling alignment as the water vessel moves from the first pair of fenders to the second pair of fenders . is an explanatory illustration showing the alignment of the water vessel caused by contact with the second pair of fenders according to an embodiment of the invention. shows the orientation of the water vessel in solid lines when the vessel initially contacts the pair of fenders . The alignment adjusted position of the water vessel after contact with the elongated pair of fenders is shown in dashed lines. As shown a central longitudinal axis of the vessel is even more closely aligned with the longitudinal axis of the ramp . Additionally as the water vessel moves up on the ramp more load is supported on the elongated fenders distributing the load throughout the arrangement. Transverse centerline fenders also supports the weight of the water vessel due to any bobbing of the hull of the water vessel as it contacts and rides along the elongated fenders .

As the water vessel moves up the elongated fenders its speed is reduced and it may come to a stop. However the initial velocity may force the water vessel further up the ramp until it contacts the bow stopping guard . shows the orientation of the water vessel when the vessel contacts and comes to rest at the bow stopping guard . As shown the vessel is aligned so that it the central longitudinal axis is closely aligned with the longitudinal axis of the ramp . As shown in the final position the bow of the water vessel overhangs the pivot edge of the ramp which allows for easy access to the deck of the parent ship if the water vessel is to be stored on the deck. As outlined above according to an embodiment of the invention the bow stopping guard may be pivoted downwards allowing the vessel to be pulled onto the deck of the parent ship .

During launching operations the ramp is moved into the deployed position as shown above in . The water vessel is lowered down the ramp under the force of its own weight. Because the water vessel is typically starting from a stationary position on the elongated fenders the elongated fenders initially guide the water vessel down the ramp . The first fenders provide further guidance down the ramp and into the water. As outlined above typically the water vessel does not contact the bumpers in the emergency receiving region during launching operations. However if during launching there is a severe and sudden drop in the water level due to the seat state and or the motion of the ship the water vessel may contact the bumpers which would then prevent uncontrolled slippage down the ramp preventing damage to the hull of the water vessel . The elastomeric material of the bumpers also mitigates shock associated with launch and recovery operations.

It should be noted that the arrangement of the launch and recovery system allows for receiving water vessels having different hull geometries. For example the distances D and d between the respective fenders and allow for water vessels having beams of about 7 ft to about 12 ft. Other dimensions outlined above also allow for the accommodation of vessels having these different geometries. For example the dimensions of the fenders and outlined above and the arrangement of the bow stopping guards also allow for receiving different hull geometries.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

