---

title: Bio-based polyurethane dispersion compositions and methods
abstract: The disclosure relates to water-dispersible polyurethane polymers as well as related polyurethane dispersion (PUD) compositions including the same, methods of making the same, methods of using the same, and articles coated with the same. The water-dispersible polyurethane polymer includes hydrophobic oligomeric polyether soft segments that include 1,2-di-substituted oxyethylene repeating units. The 1,2-di-substituted oxyethylene repeating units are derived from unsaturated fatty acid esters, such as from a distribution of epoxidized vegetable oil fatty acid esters subjected to a ring-opening polymerization process for oligomeric polyether polyol formation. The water-dispersible polyurethane polymer further includes hard segments common to other PUD compositions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08952093&OS=08952093&RS=08952093
owner: Eastern Michigan University
number: 08952093
owner_city: Ypsilanti
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120215
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 444 621 filed Feb. 18 2011 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support from the USDA Cooperative State Research Education and Extension Services CSREES through grant award no. 2009 38202 05085. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The disclosure relates to water dispersible polyurethane polymers as well as related methods and articles. The water dispersible polyurethane polymer includes hydrophobic oligomeric polyether soft segments that include 1 2 di substituted oxyethylene repeating units. The 1 2 di substituted oxyethylene repeating units are derived from unsaturated fatty acid esters such as from a distribution of vegetable oil fatty acid esters. The water dispersible polyurethane polymer further includes hard segments common to other polyurethane dispersions compositions.

Polyurethane dispersions PUDs have emerged as very important class of binders for coatings due to their versatility performance and low volatile organic carbon VOC content. The conventional commercial PUDs are almost exclusively derived from petrochemical resources accounting for their high carbon foot print as well as their increasingly high cost.

Examples of PUD compositions may be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 608 000 6 287 698 7 045 573 U.S. Publication Nos. 2005 0288431 and 2010 033075.

The disclosure generally relates to water dispersible polyurethane polymers e.g. for use in polyurethane dispersion PUD compositions as well as related methods of making the same methods of using the same and articles coated with the same. The water dispersible polyurethane polymer includes hydrophobic oligomeric polyether soft segments that include 1 2 di substituted oxyethylene repeating units. The 1 2 di substituted oxyethylene repeating units are derived from unsaturated fatty acid esters such as from a distribution of epoxidized vegetable oil fatty acid esters subjected to a ring opening polymerization process for oligomeric polyether polyol formation. The water dispersible polyurethane polymer further includes hard segments common to other PUD compositions.

The disclosed water dispersible polyurethane polymer provides bio based alternative to conventional PUD polymers thus promoting the sustainable development of such coatings. Using the oligomeric polyether polyol derived from renewable bio based resources such as any of a variety of vegetable oils e.g. from epoxidized fatty acid esters derived from vegetable oil triglycerides the disclosed polyurethane dispersions can be forming with a bio based carbon content of up to about 60 or about 70 using an otherwise conventional prepolymer process. Films formed from the polyurethane dispersions have favorable for physical properties e.g. water and acid resistance and mechanical properties e.g. hardness and impact resistance . The high bio based content ease of processing versatility and excellent performance properties of disclosed polyurethane polymers and dispersions provide environmentally friendly and sustainable binders for coatings.

In the recent years aqueous polyurethane dispersions PUDs have established themselves as one of the most important binder systems for such applications as coatings adhesives sealants and elastomers CASE . Their increasing acceptance both in architectural and industrial coatings is mainly driven by their low volatile organic content VOC that allows formulations of environmentally compliant coatings combined with excellent performance properties of polyurethane for myriads of applications. Polyurethanes are segmented polymers comprising of alternating sequences of soft segments and hard segments which constitute a microphase separation structure. Coatings with tailor made properties can be attained by manipulation of type and relative proportion of soft and hard segments. PUDs present many advantages over conventional solvent borne polyurethanes including low viscosity at low molecular weight absence of hazardous free isocyanate compounds faster drying time beside others. The typical thermoplastic PUDs are dispersions of high molecular weight segmented polyurethanes that essentially form films by physical drying. Such systems have become very popular in architectural coating field due to their ability to form coatings with desirable properties under ambient conditions. Despite being thermoplastic in nature the segmented polyurethane structure provides excellent mechanical and chemical resistance properties due to strong hydrogen bonding through urethane groups and their high molecular weight making them preferred candidates for a number of high performance industrial applications.

PUDs like most other contemporary coating binders are generally based on fast depleting petrochemical feedstock. For sustainable development of such advanced technologies it is increasingly important to develop alternative renewable material platform. Vegetable oils are agro based renewable materials available at relatively low cost. The unique combination of their chemical structure functionality and reactivity combined with low toxicity and inherent biodegradability makes them excellent resource for deriving sustainable polymers. There have been many studies that demonstrate use of vegetable oils in modifying polyurethanes. One of the most attractive performance benefits of using vegetable oil based polyols in water borne system is excellent water resistance of their films and enhanced hydrolytic stability an important property of resins for waterborne applications.

Typical PUD chains are comprised of alternating sequence of soft segments polymeric polyol and hard segments urethane group isocyanate moiety ionic center chain extenders shown as a schematic representation in . Polymeric oligomeric polyols can constitute about 50 wt. of the PUD polymer and hence are important contributors to both cost and mechanical and chemical performance of their coatings. Polymeric oligomeric polyols with such variety of backbone chemistry as polyester polyether polycarbonate etc. can be used to confer wide range of performance and cost for various end use applications.

Vegetable oil based polyols have been explored as components of polyurethane e.g. vegetable oil derived polyols as PUD soft segments by using a variety of chemistries. With a few exceptions common vegetable oils do not have hydroxyl functionality pendent to their fatty acid chains. A number of studies have reported introduction of hydroxyl groups at unsaturated sites using various chemical routes. This has been accomplished by hydroformylation followed by hydrogenation ozonolysis followed by hydrogenation oxirane ring opening of epoxidized derivatives and microbial conversion. Petrovi et al. have studied various soybean oil based polyols. Larock et al. have studied PUDs derived from methoxylated soybean oil polyols of varying functionality and have studied the effect of functionality and hard segment content on film properties. Subramanian et al. have used soy polyol with primary hydroxyl groups derived from hydroformylation reduction followed by polymerization and developed high performance PUDs.

In one aspect the disclosure relates to a water dispersible polyurethane polymer e.g. thermoplastic polymer composition comprising a hydrophobic soft segments comprising an oligomeric polyether segment comprising 1 2 di substituted oxyethylene repeating units according to the following Structure I 

Various refinements and extensions of the foregoing compositions are possible. For example the oligomeric polyether segment can comprise a urethane reaction product of a corresponding oligomeric polyether polyol e.g. with an isocyanate group such as from a diisocyanate compound according to the following Structure II 

In another aspect the disclosure relates to a method for forming a water dispersible polyurethane polymer according to any of the variously disclosed embodiments the method comprising a providing a hydrophobic soft segment precursor comprising an oligomeric polyether polyol comprising 1 2 di substituted oxyethylene repeating units according to the following Structure I 

Various refinements and extensions of the foregoing methods are possible. For example the oligomeric polyether polyol can comprises a ring opening polymerization reaction product of an epoxidized vegetable oil fatty acid ester e.g. soybean oil methyl or alkyl esters . In a refinement the oligomeric polyether polyol has a hydroxyl group functionality of 2 or about 2 e.g. 2 or slightly higher resulting from multiply unsaturated vegetable oil fatty acid esters from which the polyol is derived . In another refinement the polyurethane polymer has a hydrophobic soft segment content ranging from 40 wt. to 60 wt. relative to the polyurethane polymer. In another refinement the polyurethane polymer has a bio based carbon content ranging from 25 wt. to 70 wt. relative to the polyurethane polymer.

In another aspect the disclosure relates to a polyurethane polymer dispersion comprising a an aqueous medium comprising water and b the polyurethane polymer according to any of the variously disclosed embodiments stably dispersed in the aqueous medium in the form of polyurethane polymer particles e.g. poly urethane urea particles when a diamine chain extender is used . In a refinement the polyurethane polymer particles have a mean particle size ranging from 30 nm to 200 nm. Suitably the polyurethane polymer has a concentration in the aqueous medium sufficient to form a film upon application of the polyurethane polymer dispersion to a substrate followed by water removal e.g. drying or other curing process from the applied polyurethane polymer dispersion.

In another aspect the disclosure relates to a method for coating a substrate the method comprising a providing the polyurethane polymer dispersion according to any of the variously disclosed embodiments b applying the polyurethane polymer dispersion to a substrate and c removing water from the applied polyurethane polymer dispersion thereby forming a film adhered to the substrate the film comprising the polyurethane polymer.

In another aspect the disclosure relates to a coated article comprising a a substrate and b the polyurethane polymer according to any of the variously disclosed embodiments adhered to the substrate in the form of a film. Suitably the polyurethane polymer is thermoplastic and the film is a thermoplastic film formed via hydrogen bonding interactions between urethane groups and optionally urea groups of the polyurethane polymer.

Additional features of the disclosure may become apparent to those skilled in the art from a review of the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the drawings examples and appended claims.

While the disclosed processes compositions and methods are susceptible of embodiments in various forms specific embodiments of the disclosure are illustrated in the drawings and will hereafter be described with the understanding that the disclosure is intended to be illustrative and is not intended to limit the claims to the specific embodiments described and illustrated herein.

The disclosure generally relates to water dispersible polyurethane polymers e.g. for use in polyurethane dispersion PUD compositions as well as related methods of making the same methods of using the same and articles coated with the same. The water dispersible polyurethane polymer includes hydrophobic oligomeric polyether soft segments that include 1 2 di substituted oxyethylene repeating units. The 1 2 di substituted oxyethylene repeating units are derived from unsaturated fatty acid esters such as from a distribution of epoxidized vegetable oil fatty acid esters subjected to a ring opening polymerization process for oligomeric polyether polyol formation. The water dispersible polyurethane polymer further includes hard segments common to other PUD compositions including i hydrophilic hard segments with an ionic group to promote aqueous dispersion stability ii linking hard segments to provide urethane carbamate links between hydrophobic oligomeric polyether soft segments and or hydrophilic hard segments and iii chain extending hard segments to provide links e.g. urea carbamide links between prepolymer segments of the hydrophobic soft segments hydrophilic hard segments and linking hard segments.

The water dispersible polyurethane polymer according to the disclosure can be formed in a two step reaction process. In a first step a hydrophobic soft segment precursor is reacted with one or more hard segment precursors to form a polyurethane prepolymer. The hydrophobic soft segment precursor according to the disclosure includes an oligomeric polyether polyol derived from vegetable oil fatty acid esters. The hard segment precursors in the first step can include a first hard segment precursor as an isocyanate e.g. diisocyanate compound and a hydrophilic second hard segment precursor as a polyol e.g. diol compound that additionally includes a hydrophilic e.g. ionic group. The resulting polyurethane prepolymer includes i hydrophobic soft segments and hydrophilic second hard segments linked via urethane carbamate group reaction products with the first hard segment precursor and ii terminal isocyanate functional groups e.g. resulting from terminal first hard segment precursors with an unreacted isocyanate group .

In a second step the polyurethane prepolymer is reacted with an additional chain extending hard segment precursor. The chain extending hard segment precursor can be a third hard segment precursor that is reactive with the terminal isocyanate functional groups of the prepolymer e.g. a diamine or polyamine chain extender forming urea carbamide links between prepolymer segments . The resulting polyurethane polymer has a structure with polyurethane prepolymer units linked via the chain extender and is capable of forming a dispersion of polyurethane polymer particles in an aqueous medium.

The oligomeric polyether polyol includes 1 2 di substituted oxyethylene repeating units derived from vegetable oil fatty acid esters. In an embodiment the 1 2 di substituted oxyethylene repeating units can be characterized by the following Structure I 

In Structure I R and R are groups characteristic of the vegetable oil fatty acid ester from which the repeating unit was derived. As illustrated in the examples the oligomeric polyether polyol and corresponding oxyethylene repeating units can resulting from the ring opening polymerization of epoxidized vegetable oil fatty acid esters. For example the R and R groups are derived from vegetable oil fatty acid esters and can be independently alkyl groups or ester terminated alkyl groups e.g. in a given repeating unit R or R is the alkyl group and the other is the ester terminated alkyl group but there is not necessarily a head to tail alternating selectivity between adjacent repeating units . The alkyl groups e.g. alkyl groups alone or ester terminated alkyl groups attached to the oxyethylene carbons typically contain 1 to 10 e.g. at least 2 4 6 or 8 and or up to 4 6 8 or 10 carbon atoms depending on the fatty acid chain position of the epoxy group in the fatty acid ester or the original carbon carbon double bond in the unsaturated fatty acid ester that was converted to an epoxy group . The ester group terminating one of the alkyl groups is suitably a methyl group but more generally can be another alkyl group with 1 to 10 carbon atoms. In some embodiments either or both of the R R groups can incorporate some degree of branching in the form of an additional oxyethylene and or corresponding hydroxyl group functionality e.g. when the original epoxidized fatty acid ester contains multiple epoxy groups such as where the R and or R groups retain their basic alkyl or ester terminated alkyl functionality but with additional hydroxyl group s resulting from additional ring opened epoxy groups on the R R side chains .

A representative structure for the oligomeric polyether polyol incorporating the 1 2 di substituted oxyethylene repeating units of Structure I is given by Structure II 

The oligomeric polyether polyol can be a ring opening polymerization reaction product of an epoxidized vegetable oil fatty acid ester. The ring opening polymerization reaction can be performed under conditions generally known in the art for example by reaction with an acid at moderate temperatures as illustrated in the examples. The epoxidized vegetable oil fatty acid ester is generally commercially available as a transesterification and epoxidization product of a natural vegetable oil triglyceride i.e. containing three fatty acid residues for epoxidization and conversion to monoesters for example methyl esters or more generally alkyl esters with 1 to 10 carbon atoms in the ester group . The epoxidized vegetable oil fatty acid ester thus is generally a distribution of multiple epoxidized vegetable oil fatty acid ester species having differing chain lengths differing positioning of the epoxy groups on the chains and differing numbers of epoxy groups per chain. Suitably the epoxidized vegetable oil fatty acid ester has an epoxy functionality i.e. epoxy groups per fatty acid chain close to 1 to limit branching and the formation of branched oligomeric polyether polyols with three or more hydroxy groups. Commonly available epoxidized vegetable oil fatty acid esters have epoxy functionalities of at least 1 1.2 or 1.4 and or up to 1.2 1.4 or 1.6.

The oligomeric polyether polyol suitably has a hydroxyl group functionality of 2 or about 2 e.g. 2 or higher . A functionality of 2 e.g. as illustrated in Structure II above assuming no branching or additional hydroxyl functionality in the R and R groups is suitable to permit polyurethane prepolymer formation without substantial crosslinking or gelation thus allowing the formation of an eventual thermoplastic polyurethane polymer. In some embodiments the functionality may be higher than 2 e.g. at least 2 2.1 or 2.2 and or up to 2.2 2.4 or 2.6 for some oligomeric polyether polyols because of multiple unsaturations in the fatty acids from which multiple epoxide groups can be present per fatty acid chain. As noted this can provide a oligomeric polyether polyol as generally shown in Structure II but where one or more of the R R groups provides a branched oligomeric polyether polyol. In this case the molar ratio of isocyanate groups NCO to hydroxyl groups OH in the prepolymer formation step can be selected e.g. reduced to limit or prevent undesired crosslinking.

The vegetable oil triglyceride from which the epoxidized vegetable oil fatty acid ester is derived is not particularly limited and can include for example one or more of soybean oil safflower oil linseed oil corn oil sunflower oil olive oil canola oil sesame oil cottonseed oil palm oil peanut oil coconut oil rapeseed oil tung oil castor oil almond oil flaxseed oil grape seed oil olive oil safflower oil sunflower oil and walnut oil.

Suitable isocyanates useable as a first hard segment precursor include any organic compound having at least two free isocyanate groups per molecule for example having about 4 to 20 carbon atoms in addition to nitrogen oxygen and hydrogen and including aliphatic cycloaliphatic aryl aliphatic and aromatic polyisocyanates as well as products of their oligomerization used alone or in mixtures of two or more. Suitable isocyanates are diisocyanate compounds for example having the general form X NCO with X representing a bivalent aliphatic hydrocarbon group having from 4 to 12 carbon atoms a bivalent cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon group having from 6 to 15 carbon atoms a bivalent aromatic hydrocarbon group having from 6 to 15 carbon atoms or a bivalent aryl aliphatic hydrocarbon group having from 7 to 15 carbon atoms.

Specific examples of suitable aliphatic polyisocyanates include alpha omega alkylene diisocyanates having from 4 to 20 carbon atoms such as hexamethylene 1 6 diisocyanate HDI 1 12 dodecane diisocyanate 2 2 4 trimethyl hexamethylene diisocyanate 2 4 4 trimethyl hexamethylene diisocyanate 2 methyl 1 5 pentamethylene diisocyanate and the like. Specific examples of suitable cycloaliphatic polyisocyanates include dicyclohexylmethane diisocyanate isophorone diisocyanate IPDI 1 4 cyclohexane diisocyanate 1 3 bis isocyanatomethyl cyclohexane and the like. Specific examples of suitable araliphatic polyisocyanates include m tetramethyl xylylene diisocyanate p tetramethyl xylylene diisocyanate 1 4 xylylene diisocyanate 1 3 xylylene diisocyanate and the like. Examples of suitable aromatic polyisocyanates include 4 4 diphenylmethylene diisocyanate MDI and its isomers toluene diisocyanate TDI and its isomers naphthalene diisocyanate their oligomeric forms and the like.

Suitable hydrophilic polyol compounds useable as the second hard segment precursor can be organic polyol or diol compounds that additionally include a hydrophilic ionic group such as a carboxylate group e.g. in carboxylic acid form or as a salt . Examples of suitable hydroxy carboxylic acids used as the hydrophilic polyol compound to form the isocyanate terminated polyurethane prepolymer can be represented by formula HO R COOH where R represents a straight or branched hydrocarbon group containing 1 to 12 carbon atoms and x and y independently can be 1 2 or 3 e.g. x 2 and y 1 for a diol with single carboxylic acid ionic group . The hydroxy carboxylic acids can be dimethylol alkanoic acids for example including such compounds as 2 2 dimethylolacetic acid 2 2 dimethylolpropionic acid DMPA 2 2 dimethylolbutyric acid DMBA and 2 2 dimethylolpentanic acid.

The acid groups of the resulting polyurethane polymer or prepolymer can be neutralized using a suitable neutralizing agent. Suitable neutralizing agents include but are not limited to amines and or alkali metal hydroxides. In a particular embodiment the amine neutralizing agent can be a tertiary amine such as N methyl morpholine trimethyl amine triethylamine triethanol amine pyridine methylpyridine benzyldimethylamine N N endoethylenepiperazine N methylpiperidine pentamethyldiethylenetriamine N N dimethylaminocyclohexane N N dimethylpiperazine N N dimethylbenzylamine and combinations thereof.

Suitable chain extenders useable as the third hard segment precursor can be water soluble compounds as these increase the dispersibility of the polyurethane polymer end product in water. Organic diamines which form urea carbamide links between prepolymer segments are suitably used as chain extenders because they generally provide an increase in molecular weight without causing gelling of the polyurethane dispersion. Useful chain extenders include aliphatic cycloaliphatic and aromatic diamines. Examples of suitable diamines are ethylenediamine EDA propylenediamine 1 4 butylenediamine piperazine 1 4 cyclohexyldimethyldiamine hexamethylenediamine HDI N methylpropylenediamine diaminophenylsulfone diaminodiphenylether diaminodiphenyldimethylmethane 2 4 diamino 6 phenyltriazine isophoronediamine dimer fatty acid diamine N isodecycloxy propyl 1 3 diaminopropane and imidazolidinone functional diamines. In other embodiments the chain extender can be a di functional compound with functional groups other than amino groups but which are reactive with the terminal isocyanate groups of the prepolymer and are capable of forming the polyurethane polymer e.g. such as alkylene diols that form urethane links between prepolymer units .

The reaction steps forming the polyurethane prepolymer and subsequent polymer can be performed under conditions generally known in the art for example by in a suitable solvent for the reaction components under moderate heating and optionally in the presence of a catalyst. The polyurethane prepolymer is desirably formed in the presence of a water compatible solvent such as 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidone NMP dipropylene glycol methyl ether acetate DPMA and or acetone. Once the prepolymer is formed the hydrophilic hard segment ionic groups can be neutralized to a desired degree and then the chain extender can be added to the reaction mixture for polymer formation. In the case where NMP or DPMA is used the amount of solvent used is suitably in the range of 3 15 of the final polyurethane polymer. In the case where acetone is used the acetone can be distilled off so that the final level of acetone may be as little as 1.0 or even less without disrupting the stability of the resulting dispersion. The molar ratios of the various polymer components soft and hard segment precursors can be selected as desired to control the molecular weight and relative component amount e.g. weight or mole fraction of a particular soft or hard segment component relative to the whole in the polyurethane prepolymer and polymer. In an embodiment the soft segment precursor the first hard segment precursor and the second hard segment precursor are selected so that an initial ratio of isocyanate groups to hydroxyl groups ranges from 1.2 or 1.25 to 1.5 or 1.7 e.g. about 1.5 .

The foregoing methods can be used to form a water dispersible polyurethane polymer according to the disclosure. As analogously described above the water dispersible polyurethane polymer is suitably a thermoplastic polymer that includes hydrophobic oligomeric polyether soft segments and hydrophilic hard segments including an ionic group e.g. carboxylic acid groups neutralized carboxylate groups and combinations thereof . The oligomeric polyether segments include 1 2 di substituted oxyethylene repeating units as described and illustrated above. As illustrated in the hydrophobic soft segments shown as an oligomeric diol and the hydrophilic hard segments in the polyurethane polymer are linked via urethane carbamate groups e.g. derived from isocyanate hydroxy reaction products resulting in prepolymer segments containing alternating soft and hard segments where multiple hard segments are possible in succession before alternating to a soft segment . The polyurethane polymer has a structure e.g. a microphase separation structure that is capable of forming a dispersion of polyurethane polymer particles in an aqueous medium. The polyurethane polymer can further include chain extending hard segments that link prepolymer units e.g. via urea carbamide groups having a segmented alternating urethane structure.

The relative amounts of the soft segments e.g. oligomeric polyether segments derived from vegetable oil fatty acid esters and hard segments e.g. ionic groups urethane linkers and chain extenders can be selected as desired based on desired end use properties. Suitably the polyurethane polymer has a hydrophobic soft segment content e.g. a hydrophobic oligomeric polyether soft segment content of at least 20 wt. 40 wt. or 50 wt. and or up to 50 wt. 60 wt. or 70 wt. relative to the polyurethane polymer. Accordingly the polyurethane polymer can have a hard segment content of at least 30 wt. 40 wt. or 50 wt. and or up to 50 wt. 60 wt. or 80 wt. relative to the polyurethane polymer with any desired distribution among the various hard segment components. Similarly the polyurethane polymer can have a bio based carbon content of at least 25 wt. 50 wt. or 60 wt. and or up to 50 wt. 60 wt. or 70 wt. relative to the polyurethane polymer. For the disclosed polyurethane polymer the oligomeric polyether segments derived from vegetable oil fatty acid esters contribute to the bio based carbon content while carbon present from non renewable sources e.g. from the various hard segments does not contribute to the bio based carbon content.

The polyurethane polymer according to the disclosure suitably can be in the form of a dispersion for forming various films and or coatings. The polyurethane polymer in any of the various embodiments can be incorporated into an aqueous medium in the form of polyurethane polymer particles e.g. poly urethane urea particles when an amine functional chain extender is used . The particle size can be selected for a given application and can be controlled depending on the relative amount of the hydrophilic component in the polymer and degree of neutralization of the hydrophilic component. Suitably the polyurethane polymer particles can have a mean particle size of at least 30 nm 70 nm 200 nm or 250 nm and or up to 200 nm or 300 nm.

The aqueous dispersion can have any suitable polyurethane polymer solids content. Suitably the polyurethane polymer has a concentration in the aqueous medium sufficient to form a film upon application of the polyurethane polymer dispersion to a substrate followed by water removal from the applied polyurethane polymer dispersion. For example the dispersion can have a polyurethane polymer content of at least 5 wt. 10 wt. 15 wt. 20 wt. or 25 wt. and or up to 40 wt. 50 wt. 60 wt. or 70 wt. relative to the dispersion weight. The specific polyurethane polymer level can also be selected based on the composition of the dispersed polyurethane as well as the particle size of the dispersed particles e.g. to avoid a film with poor coating properties at low concentrations and to avoid overly viscous dispersions at high concentrations .

The disclosure further relates to a method for coating a substrate in which a polyurethane polymer dispersion according to any desired embodiment is applied to a substrate followed by removal of water from the applied polyurethane polymer dispersion e.g. via drying with or without applied heat . The resulting film formed is adhered to the substrate for example as a thermoplastic film formed via hydrogen bonding interactions between urethane groups and optionally urea groups when present of the polyurethane polymer. The substrate to which the dispersion and eventual film are applied is not particularly limited for example including wood paper metal e.g. steel aluminum plastics concrete glass and leather. The resulting film coated article exhibits a combination of film hardness flexibility water and abrasion resistance and solvent resistance.

The following examples illustrate the disclosed processes and compositions but are not intended to limit the scope of any claims thereto.

This example discloses an oligomeric polyether polyol derived from soybean oil soy polyol by a single step low energy intensive process. Polyurethane dispersions based on this soy polyol with bio based content of up to about 60 have been prepared using conventional prepolymer process. Films of PUDs have been characterized for physical and mechanical properties. The PUDs have a high bio based content an ease of processing versatility and excellent performance properties.

The soy polyol has a controlled chemical structure molecular weight and functionality for use as soft segments of thermoplastic PUDs. The goal was to derive high performance PUDs with bio base content of up to 60 without significant change in processing steps. The example also explores the blending bio base polyol with a conventional petro based polyester. The soy polyol polyether polyol type with a controlled molecular weight and functionality has been synthesized from epoxidized soy fatty acid methyl ester ESFAME which includes a distribution of species having various fatty acid chain lengths number of epoxy groups per fatty acid chain and positions of the epoxy group s on the fatty acid chain. A series of PUDs containing varying amounts of soy polyol has been prepared containing up to 50 bio based content. For comparison a conventional PUD based on polyester diol has also been prepared. PUDs based on combination of polyester diol and soy polyol have also been prepared to explore feasibility of preparing such PUDs and study their performance. Various physical and mechanical and chemical properties of coatings based on these PUDs have been studied and compared.

Epoxidized Soy Fatty acid methyl ester ESFAME was procured from Arkema VIKOFLEX 7010 oxirane content 7 and used without any purification. Dimethylolproprionic acid was procured from Perstorp Bis MPA . Isophorone diisocyanate IPDI ethylenediamine EDA triethyleneamine TEA fluoroboric acid solution diethyl ether and other common reagents and chemicals were purchased from Sigma Aldrich USA.

Intermediates products and coatings were characterized using ASTM methods where applicable oxirane content ASTM D 165297 Acid number ASTM D 1639 96 hydroxyl number ASTM D 4274 99 Water resistance ASTM D 870 02 Pencil hardness ASTM D 3363 impact resistance ASTM D 2794 99 Adhesion cross cut test ASTM D 3359 02 and MEK double rub test ASTM D 4752 98 . Functional group characterization of the soy polyol was done recording Fourier Transform Infrared FTIR spectra with Bruker Tensor 27 FTIR analyzer in the range of 400 4000 cmat room temperature.

All the PUDs were characterized for mean particle size using a Brookhaven 90PLUS particle size analyzer. In this technique particle size can be analyzed using random intensity fluctuations obtained from Brownian motion of colloidal particles. Thermo gravimetric analysis of samples was carried out using TGA Q500 TA instrument in the temperature range of 25 C. to 550 C. at the rate of 10 C. min. Glass transition temperatures Tof all PUDs were determined by Differential Scanning Calorimetry DSC DSC Q2000 TA instrument . Typically about 6 mg of the test samples were weighed in an aluminum pan and sealed with pin perforated lids. Data were recorded while the oven temperature was raised from 80 C. to 150 C. at a rate of 20 C. min. The DSC oven was purged with nitrogen at 50 mL min while testing.

Coatings were characterized besides routine film properties for their mechanical properties using nanohardness tester NANO INDENTER XP from MTS Corporation . In this test a diamond indenter tip was forced into the cured film being studied under continuous conditions. The indentations to the depth of 2000 nm were made using continuous load. Multiple indentations 9 indentations per sample were made at different locations of the film surface at applied load. The load displacement curve was recorded from which effective hardness and modulus could be calculated.

250 g of ESFAME was placed into a 500 ml 3 neck reaction flask attached with a mechanical stirrer a pressure equalized dropping funnel an inlet for dry nitrogen gas and a thermometer probe. A 48 aqueous solution of fluroboric acid HBF 0.3 3 by wt. of ESFAME was placed into a pressure equalized dropping funnel. Reaction flask was heated to 40 C. and HBFsolution was added slowly for 10 20 min. under gentle stirring maintaining reaction temperature 

Into a 500 ml 3 necked reaction flask attached with a mechanical stirrer a water condenser and inlet for nitrogen gas was placed dimethylolpropionic acid soy polyol standard polyester polyol where required NMP 5 by wt. of final PUD dry acetone 20 25 by wt of prepolymer and dibutyltin dilaurate catalyst 0.01 of prepolymer . Reaction mixture was heated to 40 50 C. under slow stirring until all DMPA was dissolved. Reaction temperature was then brought to acetone reflux condition 55 60 C. and IPDI was added slowly from pressure equalized dropping funnel for 30 45 min. After the addition of IPDI was complete reaction mixture was stirred for 3 hrs at 50 55 C. A sample of reaction mixture was drawn at each 30 min. interval and tested for isocyanate content NCO ASTM D 2572 97 method. When desired NCO was reached reaction mixture was cooled to 40 C. calculated amount of triethylamine neutralizer was added degree of neutralization about 90 and mixture was stirred for 20 minutes. Heating was then discontinued and reaction mixture was brought to room temperature and pre polymer was transferred to 1000 ml glass beaker.

The mixture was stirred under a high speed disc disperser at 15000 rpm Dispermat . DI water containing ethylenediamine chain extender was added slowly for 30 min. in a thin stream directed at the center of the impeller blade. When addition of water was complete stirring was continued for additional 30 min. The white opalescent product was then transferred into a rotary vacuum evaporator and acetone was removed under vacuum at 40 45 C. When acetone removal was complete determined by non volatile content product was cooled to room temperature and stored in a glass jar. shows a simplified general reaction scheme for preparation of PUD based on soy polyol. Table 1 shows compositions of PUDs used in the present study.

As stated earlier there are number of chemistries available to prepare vegetable oil based polyol that can produce polyols with varying type and amount of OH content functionality viscosity and chemical structure. The requirements of such polyols were considered from the standpoint of their suitability as components soft segment of PUDs and performance needs of their end products. Among the key desirable attributes identified are a low viscosity b functionality of 2 c high hydrophobicity and d high bio based content. Polyols with low viscosity allows for low viscosity prepolymer which turn produces aqueous dispersions with lower particle size and hence stability. Lower viscosity of prepolymer is also desirable since it would need less organic solvent for efficient processing. Polyols with functionality 2 are most suitable since they allow attainment if high molecular weight without cross linking during the chain extension step. PUDs are expected to have good hydrolytic stability and must resist hydrolysis during storage. Also their films must have adequate water resistance for general durability. Polyols with greater hydrophobicity are known to produce coatings with better water resistance and hydrolytic stability. For sustainable development high bio based content is highly desirable of polyols since they make up significant part of PUDs.

The soy polyol was designed in keeping with all of the above criteria and selected synthetic procedure that requires simple and low energy intensive steps. Cationic ring opening polymerization of epoxidized soy fatty acid methyl ester ESFAME using a super acid catalyst HBFwas thought to be an appropriate synthetic route. Lligadas et al. synthesized a higher functional polyol from epoxidized vegetable oil fatty acid methyl ester using HSbFcatalyst using a similar process. The oligomerization reaction was monitored by following oxirane content as well as by FTIR spectroscopy which showed a decrease in the absorption centered at 836 cm corresponding to an oxirane ring and finally disappeared. An increase in the absorption at 1088 cm C O C ether and in the broad band around 3400 3500 cm OH hydroxyl group was also noticed. This indicated that oxirane ring opening took place to form ether linkages and formation of hydroxyl groups. The resulted soy polyol was clear yellow viscous oil having OH number 88 mgs of KOH per g viscosity 6200 cPs at 25 C. hydroxyl equivalent wt. of 637.5 g. The number average molecular wt. GPC was found to be 1250 g with polydispersity index of 2.8.

As shown in Table 1 four polyurethane dispersions were prepared using a modified isocyanate prepolymer process. PUD 1 is based on soy polyol as the sole soft segment. PUD 2 is based solely on a standard commercial polyester diol OH 230 mgs of KOH . PUD 3 used a combination 50 by wt. each of soy polyol and standard polyester diol. PUD 1 PUD 2 and PUD 3 were prepared by keeping NCO OH equivalent ratio of 1.5 for their isocyanate prepolymers. PUD 4 is based solely on soy polyol but it used NCO OH of 1.25 for its prepolymer to incorporate much higher amount of soft segment and less chain extension . NMP was used at about 5 by wt. of final PUD to facilitate processing. Acetone was also used to reduce solution viscosity of prepolymers prior to their dispersion. For all PUDs the calculated amount of DMPA was used such that the acid number of their prepolymers was 30 35 mgs of KOH g. TEA was used as neutralizing amine and degree of neutralization of 90 was used for all the prepolymers.

All the PUDs so obtained were white opaque dispersions and did not show any instability on accelerated storage test incubation test for 6 weeks at 50 C. . Bio based content of all PUDs have been calculated based on their non volatile compositions using following formula.

Table 2 shows film properties of PUDs casted on steel panels. All properties were tested after 168 hrs of drying under ambient conditions. Comparison of film properties PUD 1 Soy polyol and PUD 2 polyester polyol shows significant difference in their pendulum hardness and impact resistance properties. The higher impact resistance and greater pendulum can be attributed to the short chain polyester structure hard structure as soft segment of PUD 2 compared to long chain polyether flexible structure as soft segment in PUD 1. Also the hard segment in PUD 2 is higher than that of PUD 1. PUD 3 has comparable properties with that of PUD 1 but with slightly improved toughness. The glass transition temperature Tmeasured by DSC show expected results where Tof PUD 3 combination of soy polyol polyester diol is 20.3 C. that is intermediate to that for PUD 1 and PUD 2. Tresults appears to be consistent with the results of pendulum hardness as well has hardness measured by nano indentation test. PUD 1 has much greater soft segment content 52.5 compared to that of PUD 2 38.8 . This indicates that relatively rigid polyester segment is responsible for higher T and hence hardness and impact resistance compared to much flexible polyether segment at equal wt. . In other words to achieve a desired hardness impact resistance and T much less content of soy polyol is needed compared to that of a conventional polyester. This observation is consistent with the flexible structure of soy polyol and presence of C O C linkages.

PUD 4 is based on soy polyol and has significantly higher 58.2 soft segment content compared to PUD 1. The pendulum hardness and pencil hardness of its film is poor compared to PUD 1. Significantly lower Tof PUD 4 is consistent with its other film properties. Lower numbers for both direct and reverse impact can also be explained based on their very low Twhich could not resist to rapid deformation to load greater than 90 lbs. inch. Differential Scanning Calorimetry DSC was used to determine the Tvalues in Table 2. Adhesions of all the films are generally good which is characteristic feature of polyurethane coatings.

Soy polyol due to its chemical structure comprising of non polar aliphatic fatty acid chains and presence of C O C ether linkages is expected contribute hydrophobic character to PUD films. Water contact angle measurement is a good measure of surface hydrophobicity of coatings. PUD films with varying soy polyol content were characterized for static water contact angle measurements. Table 3 shows water contact angles averages of 5 results with accuracy of 1 of all PUD films. The results clearly show that for PUD 1 through PUD 3 as soy polyol content in the film increases surface hydrophobicity of their films increases as indicated by increase in their water contact angles. For PUD 4 however despite much higher soy polyol content its water contact angle is comparable to that of PUD 1. This indicates that there exists a maximum hydrophobicity achievable at a critical amount of soy polyol above which no further increase is observed. Hydrophobicity of polymer is also known to influence the average particle size of their aqueous dispersion. As shown in Table 3 for PUD 1 through PUD 3 as soy polyol content increases the particle size of their dispersion increases. Thus there appears to be a good correlation between hydrophobicity of polymer and particle size of their dispersion. PUD 4 however shows much lower particle size despite its higher soy polyol content. This can be attributed to its lower molecular weight because of lower amount of chain extender amine content resulting from NCO OH 1.25 of its prepolymer compared to that of 1.5 for PUD 1 through PUD 3.

PUD films were also subjected to water resistance test. The results of water resistance test clearly corroborate with hydrophobicity of the films. Water resistance test was performed in accordance with ASTM D 870 02. The prepared coating samples were immersed in water for 24 hrs followed by visual rating. The results of water resistance and acid resistance tests are reported in Table 3. presents photographic images of films of PUD 1 through PUD 3 after water resistance test. As can be seen in PUD 1 based on soy polyol show excellent water resistance properties compared to PUD 2 films that is based on polyesters. PUD 3 shows moderate water resistance. Poor performance of PUD 2 can be attributed to the presence of significant number of hydrolysable ester groups and lower hydrophobicity of their films.

The surface mechanical properties modulus and hardness of the PUD films have been studied by nano indentation test. In this test a nano indenter tip indents the surface to a predetermined load i.e. to a predetermined depth in 15 seconds hold at the load for 30 seconds to observe visco creep if any and then unload in 15 seconds. Based on the indentation curve the hardness and elastic modulus can be calculated. For all samples a sufficient load was gradually applied to reach penetration depth of 2000 nm and the corresponding modulus and hardness were calculated. Table 4 shows results of nano indentation study and shows indentation curves for each PUD sample. For all four samples the difference in maximum load can be clearly observed when reaching the same depth of 2000 nm. presents a comparison of hardness and modulus of PUDs studied.

The results indicate that for PUD 1 through PUD 3 with increasing soft segment content modulus decreases with corresponding increase in hardness. PUD 2 with only short chain rigid polyester as soft segment has high modulus and hardness. It is interesting to note that PUD 4 shows high modulus and hardness compared to PUD 1 despite higher soft segment content.

This example demonstrates a sustainable technology for utilization of bio based resources for development of advanced polymeric coating materials with 50 bio based content. The example shows that it is possible synthesize polymeric polyol with controlled functionality and molecular weight from soybean oil. Such soy polyols are suitable as primary components in formulation of aqueous polyurethane dispersions for coating applications. PUDs based on soy polyol demonstrate some very unique and desirable properties such as the hydrophobicity of their films with a number of potential applications. It is possible to customize performance properties of PUDs using a combination of soy polyol and commercially available polyesters polyols as soft segments for a wide range of applications.

Because other modifications and changes varied to fit particular operating requirements and environments will be apparent to those skilled in the art the disclosure is not considered limited to the example chosen for purposes of illustration and covers all changes and modifications which do not constitute departures from the true spirit and scope of this disclosure.

Accordingly the foregoing description is given for clearness of understanding only and no unnecessary limitations should be understood therefrom as modifications within the scope of the disclosure may be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art.

All patents patent applications government publications government regulations and literature references cited in this specification are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict the present description including definitions will control.

Throughout the specification where the compositions processes kits or apparatus are described as including components steps or materials it is contemplated that the compositions processes or apparatus can also comprise consist essentially of or consist of any combination of the recited components or materials unless described otherwise. Component concentrations can be expressed in terms of weight concentrations unless specifically indicated otherwise. Combinations of components are contemplated to include homogeneous and or heterogeneous mixtures as would be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art in view of the foregoing disclosure.

