---

title: Methods and apparatus to protect and audit communication line status
abstract: Methods and apparatus to protect and audit communication line status are disclosed. An example method includes receiving a set of available communication lines from a media gateway, associating a plurality of destination numbers with respective ones of the available communication lines, and dialing the plurality of destination numbers from the media gateway to identify the communication line status information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08705520&OS=08705520&RS=08705520
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08705520
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121205
---
This patent is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 788 129 filed Apr. 19 2007 entitled Methods and Apparatus to Protect and Audit Communication Line Status which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to communication networks and more particularly to methods and apparatus to protect and audit communication line status.

Communication networks for businesses or personal residences sometimes include network devices that have the potential to permit unwanted intrusions if not protected by security measures. These instructions may be in the form of unwanted faxes computer generated audio surveys computer generated audio advertisements and or direct connections to a data modem. Such network devices include fax machines that may be abused by telemarketers that transmit numerous unsolicited sales brochures and marketing surveys. The fax machines may be employed by an organization e.g. a mid to large size business as a stand alone device and or as a personal computer PC configured with a modem to receive and or transmit facsimile data. Further PCs configured with one or more modems adapted to receive incoming data connections and or facsimile data introduce a potential security risk to the network if such PCs are also communicatively connected to the company network via high speed data cables and or internal wireless network s . Residential and business customers may receive unwanted computer generated audio surveys or advertisements that may not pose a security risk but are a nuisance to customers.

Mid to large size businesses sometimes allocate a bank of numerically consecutive telephone numbers lines dedicated to voice and or fax machines in various locations throughout that business. For example a block of one thousand consecutive telephone numbers may be allocated to a workforce of a company department while an additional block of fifty consecutive telephone numbers may be allocated to provide facsimile services for that workforce. Additionally PCs allocated to each of the workforce members may include a modem as standard equipment of the PC that if connected to a telephone line introduces a potential manner of external access to that PC.

As a business adapts to changing market forces various departments may experience significant change that results in workforce reallocation turnover and or departmental reorganization. As a result some of the allocated lines for the workforce members may be re routed to alternate company locations left unutilized due to workforce turnover or forgotten altogether. While some organizations may track the utilization of allocated lines and or the resources such lines support the task of tracking numerous lines is labor intensive and tedious. Even when the original block of for example one thousand lines is known determining where each line is connected if connected at all may involve a significant amount of manual tracking efforts.

Methods and apparatus to protect and audit communication line status are disclosed. An example method includes receiving a set of available communication lines from a media gateway associating a plurality of destination numbers with respective ones of the available communication lines and dialing the plurality of destination numbers from the media gateway to identify the communication line status information.

To identify whether the lines are utilized and or what resources the line s are supporting e.g. a fax machine a PC modem a telephone etc. an audit application may be employed by the organization. The audit application includes simultaneously calling numerically consecutive blocks of destination telephone numbers typically from several originating telephone lines with the objective of determining what device s are connected to that line. The audit application may include simultaneously calling a block of numbers sequentially calling numerically consecutive numbers and or sequentially calling blocks of numbers. Those lines that answer with handshaking tones from a network device e.g. fax handshaking tones modem handshaking tones etc. may be identified so that the organization can follow up with the responsive device and ensure that adequate security procedures are employed.

The audit application may be performed by a PC configured with 1 multiple modems each of which is controlled by the PC and 2 an audit application that dials telephone numbers. Each of the modems is connected to a dedicated line that is typically owned or leased by the organization for the purpose of performing an audit of their telephone line inventory. However the PC has a limited number of modems that it can control simultaneously by virtue of available hardware ports e.g. PCI slots USB ports etc. and or the limited processing power of the PC to simultaneously control multiple modems. As an example if a PC includes four 4 modems 240 lines may be audited each hour. If an organization has 10 000 lines over 41 hours would be required to complete the audit.

An example system to audit communication line status is shown in . In the illustrated example of the system includes a client application to allow a client e.g. an organization to invoke auditing services of one or more lines an audit dialing manager to control the audit dialing audit process a network e.g. an intranet the Internet Voice over IP network VoIP etc. to facilitate communication between the components of the system and a media gateway communicatively connected to the network and one or more public switched telephone networks PSTNs . The client application and the audit dialing manager are shown as separate items for ease of illustration but persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the client application may be an integral part of the audit dialing manager . Similarly the audit dialing manager may be communicatively connected directly to the media gateway and or the client application may be communicatively connected directly to the audit dialing manager .

The example PSTN is connected to one or more network devices which may include but are not limited to a telephone a fax machine a laptop and or a desktop personal computer PC . Each of the network devices may have a corresponding telephone number that was assigned for example by an organization e.g. a company an office etc. to facilitate telephone facsimile and or modem communication capabilities. While only four example network devices are shown in persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that an organization may own and or lease thousands of lines to facilitate network communication services. Similarly such network devices may be communicatively connected to the network thereby facilitating protection and or auditing of communication lines in a VoIP environment. Such lines may have been purchased and or leased in blocks of consecutive numbers. Audit procedures are particularly valuable to the organization because for example some of the network devices may be communicatively connected to one or more internal networks of the organization such as a private network and or an intranet. As a result a malicious third party may gain access the private network via the telephone line if such line s are not adequately protected. Adequate network device protection may include but is not limited to password protection of the laptop and or PC and or firewall protection of the laptop and or PC .

As discussed in further detail below a member of the organization e.g. a network administrator may invoke the audit dialing manager via the client application . The client application may be employed as a web page communicatively available to the client via the network e.g. an Internet connection so that after providing authorization credentials e.g. a username and associated password the client can initiate halt and or edit audit dialing procedures of one or more network devices . Additionally or alternatively the client application may be employed as an application programming interface API that executes on a client s e.g. the network administrator PC. The API may include a graphical user interface GUI and one or more software calls to invoke the functionality of the audit dialing manager .

In the illustrated example of the audit dialing manager receives one or more instructions and or commands from the client application and invokes the media gateway to obtain one or more available lines to begin an audit of the organization s lines. The example media gateway operates between various networks and changes streams of traditional time division multiplexed TDM PSTN signals to one or more single streams of internet protocol IP streams and vice versa. The example media gateway may also switch route voice and data traffic from IP network to IP network and PSTN network to PSTN network. Persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the media gateway executes a media gateway control protocol MGCP a session initiated protocol SIP Megaco and or any other protocol that among other things enables external control and management of data communications equipment e.g. the media gateway . While an audit dialing application that executes from a single PC may only simultaneously control a relatively small number of modems the media gateway may be simultaneously communicatively connected to thousands of analog lines. As a result the organization may avoid the need to buy and or lease additional analog lines for the purpose of auditing their internal lines via a PC based audit application.

Instead the audit dialing manager may communicate with any available media gateways to identify available communication lines e.g. telephone lines analog trunk lines that are not currently being used for communication etc. and dial one of several telephone numbers owned and or leased by the organization in an effort to determine the type of network device that is currently connected thereto. Rather than require a PC to directly control a relatively small number of hardware modems for audit dialing efforts the example client application and or the example audit dialing manager allows emulation of a plurality of PSTN modems for audit dialing. Additionally because idle communication lines on the media gateway do not cost the service provider any money the services of auditing network devices described herein may be provided to the client for a lower cost than would be required by a traditional war dialing approach. Audit dialing services may be provided to a client e.g. an organization for a fee in which one or more audits may be performed on the client s network one or more times upon request periodically and or at scheduled intervals. However the traditional war dialing approach would typically require the client to buy and or lease several communication lines e.g. telephone lines and control a modem connected to each leased communication line. The audit dialing manager may invoke the media gateway during relatively low traffic time periods e.g. 12 00 AM to 4 00 AM to dial one or more sequences of telephone numbers owned leased and or managed by the organization. As described in further detail below log files generated and saved by the media gateway in response to the audit dialing are received by the audit dialing manager and formatted as an output report for the client e.g. the organization s network administrator .

An example audit dialing manager is shown in . The example audit dialing manager of includes a network interface a web server and a graphical user interface module . In the illustrated example the network interface is communicatively connected to the network and without limitation may be directly connected to the client application and or the media gateway . The example audit dialing manager of also includes a communication line query engine an audit dialing engine and an audit dialing number sequencer . The example audit dialing number sequencer is communicatively connected to an audit dialing client database . The example audit dialing engine is communicatively connected to an audit dialing results database . A log file parser may be invoked by the audit dialing engine to extract log files from the audit dialing results database and to determine what type s of network device s if any are associated with a dialed telephone number. As discussed in further detail below the example log file parser of also includes a pattern trap to detect war dialing behavior by potentially malicious parties. Unlike audit dialing war dialing includes one or more attempts by a third party to dial destination telephone numbers in an attempt to discover people and or devices associated with the destination number. The war dialer may be a telemarketer searching for voice lines and or fax machines to which unsolicited advertisements may be sent. Additionally the war dialer may be searching for PC modems which may result in unauthorized attempts to access the PC PC resources and or one or more networks connected to the PC. The example audit dialing manager also includes a report generator to format results from the log file parser and present the client with a status report of one or more audits of their leased owned and or managed telephone lines.

In the illustrated example of the client e.g. the network administrator using the client application accesses the audit dialing manager and or one or more services of the audit dialing engine the communication line query engine the audit dialing number sequencer the audit dialing results database the audit dialing client database the log file parser and or the report generator via the network interface . Client interaction and or access to the audit dialing manager may be accomplished via one or more of the Internet an intranet a computer a workstation a kiosk etc. The network interface of the illustrated example enables communication via web pages using the web server and or via a graphical and or command line user interface using one or more GUIs generated by the GUI module .

In the illustrated example of a user e.g. the client system administrator of the organization of the example system accesses the GUI module or the web server and enters authentication credentials before gaining access to the services of the audit dialing manager . Upon successful authentication e.g. via successfully entering a correct username and associated password the user is permitted to create an audit dialing profile select a pre existing audit dialing profile and or edit the pre existing audit dialing profile. The audit dialing profile may include a list of sequential and or non sequential telephone numbers owned leased and or otherwise managed by the organization. Operation of the audit procedure s may be configured to occur during a period of time when the PSTN does not usually handle a large amount of traffic such as the early morning hours. Persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a fee for auditing procedures that include audit dialing efforts of the media gateway may be less expensive during the early morning hours when demand for many communication lines e.g. analog trunk lines telephone lines etc. is typically much lower than for example early afternoon hours of a regular work week when such demand may be high.

The example communication line query engine identifies one or more sets of lines of the PSTN and determines which of those lines are available. For example the communication line query engine may send one or more commands to the media gateway to identify unutilized trunk access numbers within one or more trunk groups. Persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that such efforts to locate an available trunk line are referred to as trunk hunting and or trunk monitoring. The PSTN may cover a vast geographic area that is sub divided into various categories regions for ease of reference e.g. downtown PSTN sub network Northwest suburb PSTN sub network Southwest suburb PSTN sub network etc. . The one or more lines of the sub network deemed available e.g. not currently being used for communication are temporarily reserved by the audit dialing engine via control signal s to the media gateway while the audit dialing number sequencer associates the available line with the client s telephone number s . Association of the available line s with the client s telephone number s may include retrieving the list of client telephone numbers from the audit dialing client database . The database may be sub divided into one or more portions in which each portion is dedicated to one client. The number sequencer retrieves each of the available client telephone numbers from the database and associates each number with an available line. Upon associating all of the client s telephone numbers with an available line the audit dialing engine instructs the media gateway to dial each one of the client s telephone numbers and record a log of activity as discussed in further detail below.

In the illustrated example of only nine destination numbers are listed in the destination number column but persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the destination number column may include hundreds or thousands of destination numbers the client wishes to audit. Destination numbers that include a check in the exclude column are flagged as numbers not in need of an audit. For example the destination number 555 547 5241 row includes a check in the exclude column to prevent the audit dialing engine from instructing the media gateway to dial that number in search of an associated network device. Such exclusionary options may be particularly useful when the organization knows of particular destination numbers having an established association thereby precluding a need to perform the audit.

On the other hand the organization may still choose to audit a destination number despite knowledge of one or more network devices connected thereto. For example the client may know that the destination number 555 547 5238 row is associated with an employee having a modem installed in a PC for which the employee is authorized to use for business purposes. An audit of that destination number may still occur to confirm such connectivity but the check mark in the whitelist column instructs the media gateway not to block and or otherwise tie up the line if modem negotiation tones are detected.

Still further the client may know that the destination number 555 547 5237 row is associated with an employee that is authorized to utilize the line only for telephonic purposes. However due to the prolific presence of internal modems on desktop computers the organization may be at risk if the employee also connects the line to the modem. In such an example case the absence of a check mark in the whitelist column instructs the media gateway to block any communication attempt to the destination number 555 547 5237 if negotiation tones are detected during the audit. To that end the example media gateway may block the call or redirect the caller so that they hear a message stating that calls to the dialed number are being denied and or instruct the caller to contact an alternate number for assistance.

Additional telephone numbers may be added with a blank destination number field and an add button and or the user may be allowed to add multiple destination numbers from a file via an append from file button . Persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that data files containing lists of destination numbers may be saved in files of any type such as comma separated value CSV files space delimited files binary files and or any other file format that may be parsed for one or more destination numbers. Changes made to the selected profile may be updated via the update button which saves the profile to the audit dialing client database . Alternatively changes made to the example GUI may be saved as a new profile via the new profile button .

As discussed above the audit dialing number sequencer accesses the audit dialing client database which stores the data from the example GUI and associates each of the destination numbers from the destination column with an available communication line. Destination numbers having a corresponding check mark in the exclude column such as row are not included in the audit while destination numbers having a corresponding check mark in the whitelist column are not blocked by the media gateway if negotiation tones are detected. illustrates an example audit dialing log saved by the media gateway and stored on the audit dialing results database . In the illustrated example of each dialed number as directed by the client s configured profile is shown in a dialed number column . The example dialing log also includes a time date stamp column and a status column . The time date stamp column includes a date and time at which the corresponding dialed number was accessed and the status column indicates what result occurred after each number was dialed. In example row of the number 555 547 5236 was dialed at 1 59 37 AM on Apr. 24 2007 and no response was detected by the media gateway . On the other hand example row of illustrates that the number 555 547 5237 was also dialed at that same time and negotiation tones were detected by the media gateway . Briefly returning to because the profile does not include a corresponding check mark for the number 555 547 5237 the media gateway will block further communication attempts by outside parties when such attempts are routed and or switched through the media gateway . However persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the example audit dialing engine may send a list of one or more blocked numbers e.g. from the audit dialing client database to an intelligent peripheral service node IP SN a service switching point SSP a signal transfer point STP and or a signal control point SCP . To that end identified numbers may be blocked even if not routed and or switched by the example media gateway. As discussed in further detail below the client may be provided with a status report detailing such activity so that preventative and or corrective measures may be taken by the network administrator and or the employee associated with the blocked number may be notified of the block.

The log file parser extracts entries from the example audit dialing log that are deemed suspect. Of the nine numbers listed in the example GUI only eight were dialed by the media gateway due to the check mark of row for the exclude column . Of the eight numbers dialed by the media gateway only two resulted in behavior that may be deemed suspect which corresponds to the numbers 555 547 5236 and 555 547 5237. The example log file parser identified 555 547 5236 as suspect because no negotiation tones or voicemail was detected even though that destination number includes a check box in the whitelist column . Persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that this may be due to organizational policies to turn off computers in the evening for energy conservation purposes. Nonetheless the log file parser extracts this destination number as a potential issue to allow the client to make an independent assessment if desired. Additionally the example log file parser identified 555 547 5237 as suspect because negotiation tones were detected thereby indicating possible improper usage of the line and or a potential security threat to the organization.

Flowcharts representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing methods and apparatus of are shown in . In these examples the machine readable instructions comprise programs for execution by a a processor such as the processor shown in which may be part of a computer b a controller and or c any other suitable processing device. The programs may be embodied in software stored on a tangible medium such as for example a flash memory a CD ROM a floppy disk a hard drive a digital versatile disk DVD or a memory associated with the processor but persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the entire programs and or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than the processor and or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware in a well known manner. For example any or all of the example client application the audit dialing manager the network interface the web server the GUI module the communication line query engine the audit dialing engine the audit dialing number sequencer the log file parser and or the report generator could be implemented by software hardware and or firmware e.g. it may be implemented by an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmable logic device PLD a field programmable logic device FPLD discrete logic etc. .

Also some or all of the machine readable instructions represented by the flowcharts of may be implemented manually. Further although the example programs are described with reference to the flowcharts illustrated in persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that many other methods of implementing the example machine readable instructions may alternatively be used. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed substituted eliminated or combined.

The example process of begins at block where the audit dialing client database receives one or more numbers from the client. As described above the client may enter one or more destination numbers via the example GUI as shown in and or provide such numbers as a file e.g. a CSV file a space delimited file a text file etc. . The example audit dialing engine determines if an audit process should begin block by referring to the scheduled audit time . Briefly referring to the client may configure the system via the example GUI to perform an audit each week at 2 30 AM. Persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that such early morning times typically include substantially lower call volume thereby allowing more available trunk lines to be assigned by the media gateway . As the number of available trunk lines increases the amount of time required to audit client destination numbers decreases.

If the audit dialing engine determines that it is not time to perform the audit block then the audit dialing engine determines whether the client has elected to detect an occurrence of war dialing attempts on its own network block . War dialing detection may be employed using methods and or apparatus as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 250 713 filed on Oct. 13 2005 and entitled Methods and Apparatus to Detect and Block Unwanted Fax Calls. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 250 713 is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

If the client has not elected to detect for the occurrence of war dialing block then control returns to block to wait for the audit start time. On the other hand if the client has elected to monitor for the presence of war dialing efforts within and or toward telephone numbers associated with its own network block then the audit dialing engine invokes the media gateway to begin storing a log of activity associated with the client s telephone numbers block . As discussed in further detail below the system for auditing network devices may extract one or more log files from the media gateway and search for war dialing patterns.

When the audit dialing engine determines that the audit should begin e.g. the weekly time period has elapsed block then the audit dialing engine invokes the services of the trunk line query engine to determine and reserve available trunk lines block . Generally speaking the media gateway may be communicatively connected to thousands of PSTN communication lines e.g. trunk lines but some or all of those communication lines may be in use for communication purposes at any given time. Communication line utilization fluctuates at various times of the day in which some communication lines facilitate telephone communication analog modem communication fax transmission s home security systems etc. The example communication line query engine accesses the media gateway via the network interface and sends one or more command signals to request one or more available communication lines block . Based in part on how many destination numbers the client wishes to audit the example communication line query engine reserves a subset of available communication lines block to be used for audit dialing of the destination numbers. For example if the media gateway has one thousand available trunk lines and the client has ten thousand destination numbers to audit then assuming it takes one minute per number to audit each destination number all ten thousand destination numbers may be audited within ten minutes. In contrast to the speed at which the media gateway may audit destination numbers a standard PC controlling four trunk lines would require over forty one hours to audit those ten thousand destination numbers of the example organization again assuming it takes one minute per number to audit each destination number.

The available trunk lines are then associated with some of the client destination numbers block . For example the client may have many more destination numbers to audit than are available by the media gateway at any given time. Accordingly the audit dialing number sequencer may associate client destination numbers with available communication lines in batches. Each of the client destination numbers of a batch are dialed by the media gateway and a log of such activity is saved by the media gateway block . The example audit dialing number sequencer determines if there are more client destination numbers to audit block and if so returns to block to associate available communication lines with client destination numbers. Persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that control could alternatively return to block if the communication line query engine had previously relinquished communication line reservation s .

When the audit dialing manager has completed audit dialing for all of the client destination numbers block the log files saved by the media gateway are sent to the audit dialing results database and are parsed by the log file parser block . As described above the example log file parser reviews each log file for anomalies that may constitute an error and or potential security breach such as but not limited to detecting negotiation tones on a destination number designated as voice only or failing to detect negotiation tones on a destination number designated as a fax machine. A report of anomalies and or suspect behavior if any is then generated by the report generator block and made available to the client for review. The example audit dialing manager may provide the client with the report via e mail and or an Internet intranet accessible web page. The example audit dialing engine determines if the audit process is scheduled to repeat block by accessing GUI settings stored in the audit dialing client database . For example the client may schedule the list of client destination numbers to be audited on a daily weekly and or monthly basis. If so control returns to block to monitor for the next audit time.

If the log file parser does not detect any patterns indicative of war dialing block then control returns to block see . However if the log file parser detects patterns indicative of war dialing block then the originating numbers responsible for war dialing may be identified and blocked by the media gateway . As such any future attempts by the suspected war dialing originating number are blocked when attempting to dial any of the client destination numbers. Persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that because the example media gateway changes streams of TDM signals to IP signals and vice versa the IP address of a war dialer may be identified. To that end the audit dialing engine may instruct the media gateway to prohibit any access to the client destination numbers if the originating IP address is associated with war dialing behavior. Additionally the methods and apparatus described herein may audit destination numbers associated with networks employing voice over Internet protocol VoIP devices.

In the illustrated example log file of the log file parser detects patterns of consecutive behavior. For example the log file parser may detect the consecutive sequence of destination numbers and or the frequency at which originating lines and are employed within a relatively short period of time. If one or more of originating lines and or are deemed to be suspected war dialers the audit dialing engine may transmit a control signal to the media gateway to block any attempts by such originating lines when calling a number within the client s list of destination numbers.

The log file parser may deem each of the originating lines and as potential war dialers when a suspected threshold in this example two of numerically consecutive calls is observed. Employing the suspected threshold accommodates for circumstances in which a caller accidentally misdials a number by one digit. Rather than immediately request that the media gateway block all future attempts by the originating number from accessing the client s destination numbers in light of an innocent mistake the originating number is merely flagged as suspected by the log file parser . However as shown at a third time period each of originating lines and respectively place calls to destination numbers 555 1113 555 2557 and 555 7123 . As each of these three destination numbers is numerically consecutive from the previous call placed by the corresponding originating numbers at the second time period and the first time period the log file parser deems the originating numbers as war dialers. As a result the audit dialing engine sends a command instruction to the media gateway to prevent any further access to the client destination numbers by these identified originating numbers.

Although the above example illustrates a suspected threshold set at two numerically consecutive calls persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the threshold may be set at any desired number of calls. Further the example log file parser may employ a confirmed threshold of three consecutive calls before flagging the originating lines as war dialers. However persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the confirmed threshold could be placed several time periods away from the suspected threshold . For example the confirmed threshold may alternatively be set such that if the suspected war dialer associated with originating line places an additional call to the client destination number 555 1113 at any time within a predetermined time period e.g. 2 hours 2 days 2 weeks etc. originating line will be deemed confirmed a war dialer for future blocking by the media gateway .

The computer of the instant example includes a processor such as a general purpose programmable processor. The processor includes a local memory and executes coded instructions present in the local memory and or in another memory device. The processor may execute among other things the example processes illustrated in . The processor may be any type of processing unit such as a microprocessor from the Intel Centrino family of microprocessors the Intel Pentium family of microprocessors the Intel Itanium family of microprocessors the Intel XScale family of processors and or the Motorola family of processors. Of course other processors from other families are also appropriate.

The processor is in communication with a main memory including a volatile memory and a non volatile memory via a bus . The volatile memory may be implemented by Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM RAMBUS Dynamic Random Access Memory RDRAM and or any other type of random access memory device. The non volatile memory may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the main memory is typically controlled by a memory controller not shown in a conventional manner.

The computer also includes a conventional interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of well known interface standard such as an Ethernet interface a universal serial bus USB and or a third generation input output 3GIO interface.

One or more input devices are connected to the interface circuit . The input device s permit a user to enter data and commands into the processor . The input device s can be implemented by for example a keyboard a mouse a touchscreen a track pad a trackball isopoint and or a voice recognition system.

One or more output devices are also connected to the interface circuit . The output devices can be implemented for example by display devices e.g. a liquid crystal display a cathode ray tube display CRT a printer and or speakers . The interface circuit thus typically includes a graphics driver card.

The interface circuit also includes a communication device such as a modem or network interface card to facilitate exchange of data with external computers via a network e.g. an Ethernet connection a digital subscriber line DSL a telephone line coaxial cable a cellular telephone system etc. .

The computer also includes one or more mass storage devices for storing software and data. Examples of such mass storage devices include floppy disk drives hard drive disks compact disk drives and digital versatile disk DVD drives. The mass storage device may implement the memory of the example audit dialing results database the audit dialing client database and or the example log file parser .

At least some of the above described example methods and or apparatus are implemented by one or more software and or firmware programs running on a computer processor. However dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can likewise be constructed to implement some or all of the example methods and or apparatus described herein either in whole or in part. Furthermore alternative software implementations including but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the example methods and or apparatus described herein.

It should also be noted that the example software and or firmware implementations described herein are optionally stored on a tangible storage medium such as a magnetic medium e.g. a magnetic disk or tape a magneto optical or optical medium such as an optical disk or a solid state medium such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more read only non volatile memories random access memories or other re writable volatile memories or a signal containing computer instructions. A digital file attached to e mail or other information archive or set of archives is considered a distribution medium equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the example software and or firmware described herein can be stored on a tangible storage medium or distribution medium such as those described above or successor storage media.

To the extent the above specification describes example components and functions with reference to particular standards and protocols it is understood that the scope of this patent is not limited to such standards and protocols. For instance each of the standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. Transmission Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP User Datagram Protocol UDP IP HyperText Markup Language HTML HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP represent examples of the current state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having the same general purpose. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same general purpose are equivalents to the standards protocols mentioned herein and contemplated by this patent are intended to be included within the scope of the accompanying claims.

This patent contemplates examples wherein a device is associated with one or more machine readable mediums containing instructions or receives and executes instructions from a propagated signal so that for example when connected to a network environment the device can send or receive voice video or data and communicate over the network using the instructions. Such a device can be implemented by any electronic device that provides voice video and or data communication such as a telephone a cordless telephone a mobile phone a cellular telephone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a set top box a computer and or a server.

Additionally although this patent discloses example software or firmware executed on hardware and or stored in a memory it should be noted that such software or firmware is merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example it is contemplated that any or all of these hardware and software components could be embodied exclusively in hardware exclusively in software exclusively in firmware or in some combination of hardware firmware and or software. Accordingly while the above specification described example methods and articles of manufacture persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the examples are not the only way to implement such methods and articles of manufacture. Therefore although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

