---

title: Providing information associated with an identified representation of an object
abstract: Methods, apparatus systems and computer program products are described herein that provide for using video or still shot analysis, such as AR or the like, to assist the user of mobile devices with receiving information corresponding to an abstraction or representation of a subject. Some subjects are difficult to capture in a video or still shot. The method and devices described herein capture representations of difficult to capture or unavailable subjects and presents information related to the subject with the representation. In an embodiment, the representation is a screenshot and the information is provided related to the application that is represented by the screenshot. Various other types of representations including depictions, advertisements, portions of, and identifying marks can be identified by the system and method and information presented relating to the corresponding subjects. In some cases, the information is customized with financial information of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08929591&OS=08929591&RS=08929591
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08929591
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120101
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 450 213 filed Mar. 8 2011 entitled Real Time Video Image Analysis Applications for Commerce Activity and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 478 407 filed Apr. 22 2011 entitled Providing Information Associated with an Identified Representation of an Object the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Modern handheld mobile devices such as smart phones or the like combine multiple technologies to provide the user with a vast array of capabilities. For example many smart phones are equipped with significant processing power sophisticated multi tasking operating systems and high bandwidth Internet connection capabilities. Moreover such devices often have addition features that are becoming increasing more common and standardized features. Such features include but are not limited to location determining devices such as Global Positioning System GPS devices sensor devices such as accelerometers and high resolution video cameras.

As the hardware capabilities of such mobile devices have increased so too have the applications i.e. software that rely on the hardware advances. One such example of innovative software is a category known as augmented reality AR or more generally referred to as mediated reality. One such example of an AR application platform is Layar available from Layar Amsterdam the Netherlands.

The Layar platform technology analyzes location data compass direction data and the like in combination with information related to the objects locations or the like in the video stream or still shot to create browse able hot spots or tags that are superimposed on the mobile device display resulting in an experience described as reality browsing .

In some situations objects are abstract and cannot be adequately captured in a video stream or still shot. For example software programs such as mobile device applications are abstract and difficult to capture in a video stream or still shot. Further some objects are concrete but commonly reproduced in abstract form. For example photographs of individuals are an abstraction of the person represented therein. Also some objects are represented by abstract symbols or identifiers such as trademarks or logos. Individuals are interested in the objects represented by these abstractions not in the abstractions themselves. However individuals may find it difficult to gather information from abstractions because they are not the actual object of interest but only represent the object in some form.

Therefore a need exists to implement video or still shot analysis i.e. AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with receiving information based on an abstraction of an object.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Methods apparatus systems and computer program products are described herein that provide for using video or still shot analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with receiving information corresponding to an abstraction or representation of a subject. Through the use of real time video objects logos artwork products locations and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream can be matched to data associated with such to assist the user with receiving information based on representations related to subjects that are not easily capturable in video or still shots. In specific embodiments the data that is matched to the images in the real time video stream is specific to financial institutions such as customer financial behavior history customer purchase power transaction history and the like. In this regard many of the embodiments herein disclosed leverage financial institution data which is uniquely specific to a financial institution in providing information to mobile device users in connection with real time video stream analysis.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

In some embodiments a method of presenting information based on a captured representation of a subject is provided. In an embodiment the method includes recognizing via a mobile device the representation of the subject identifying via a computing device processor the subject based on an analysis of the representation retrieving information corresponding to the subject and presenting information using the mobile device the information related to the subject presented in conjunction with presentation of the representation.

In some embodiments the method also includes capturing the representation from a still shot and analyzing the still shot to identify the subject. Optionally the method can include capturing the representation from a video and analyzing the video to identify the subject. In some embodiments the still shot or video are captured in real time while in other embodiments the still shot or video or saved as a file and provided to the mobile device for analysis. In some embodiments the method customizes the information with financial information of a user of the mobile device or of the subject. For example the information can be customized with account information purchase history and or demographic data of the user.

The representation disclosed herein can vary widely. In an exemplary embodiment the representation is a screenshot of an application installed on or executing on a computing device. The computing device may be any type of personal or business computing device such as a mobile phone a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a video game console or a personal digital assistant. In other embodiments the representation is a depiction advertisement portion of or identifying mark for a subject.

Embodiments of the invention also provide an apparatus where the apparatus has a device for capturing a video stream or still shot a processor configured to determine which representations from the video stream or still shot are associated with subjects and a display for presenting the video stream with information the information being associated with the subjects corresponding to the representations. In some embodiments the information is presented real time in the video stream. In further embodiments the apparatus includes a microphone and the subject is identified at least in part by an audio recording from the microphone.

The apparatus also includes a computing platform having a processor a memory in communication with the processor and logic stored in the memory and executable by the processor. In some embodiments the logic includes image capture logic configured to capture a video stream comprising a representation of the subject. The logic may also include analysis logic configured to analyze the representation of the subject image identification logic configured to identify the subject from the analysis of the representation and presentation logic configured to present information related to the subject in the video.

In some embodiments the apparatus also includes a network interface device configured to wirelessly connect to a database comprising a plurality of subjects and associated representations. In still further embodiments the apparatus includes customization logic stored in the memory and executable by the processor wherein the customization logic is configured to customize a presentation for the user. The presentation can be customized with the user s financial information such as previous transactions between the user and the identified subject.

Embodiments of the invention also provide a computer program product comprising a non transitory computer readable medium having computer executable code stored thereon. In one embodiment the computer executable code includes a first code portion configured to capture via a mobile device a video stream or still picture a second code portion configured to determine which representations from the video stream or still shot are associated with subjects and a third code portion configured to present on a display the video stream or still shot information on the subjects corresponding to the representations. In some embodiments the computer program product also includes a database comprising a plurality of subjects and related representations. The computer program product may be stored on a mobile device such as a mobile phone a personal digital assistant a camera or a tablet computer. In further embodiments the computer program product includes instructions for customizing the information for the user such as by providing information related to at least one previous transaction of the user or by providing coupons for the user.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed may be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present invention or may be combined with yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like are herein disclosed that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with receiving information related to subjects corresponding to abstract representations in an environment. Through the use of real time object recognition objects logos artwork products locations and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream can be matched to data associated with such to assist the user with purchasing and or customizing subjects represented in the AR environment. In specific embodiments the data that is matched to the images in the real time video stream is specific to financial institutions such as customer financial behavior history customer purchase power transaction history and the like. In this regard many of the embodiments herein disclosed leverage financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institution in providing information to mobile devices users in connection with real time video stream analysis.

While embodiments discussed herein are generally described with respect to real time video streams or real time video it will be appreciated that the video stream may be captured and stored for later viewing and analysis. Indeed in some embodiments video is recorded and stored on a mobile device and portions or the entirety of the video may be analyzed at a later time. The later analysis may be conducted on the mobile device or loaded onto a different device for analysis. The portions of the video that may be stored and analyzed may range from a single frame of video e.g. a screenshot to the entirety of the video. Additionally rather than video the user may opt to take a still picture of the environment to be analyzed immediately or at a later time. Embodiments in which real time video recorded video or still pictures are analyzed are contemplated herein.

The mobile device may generally include a processor communicably coupled to such devices as a memory user output devices user input devices a network interface a power source a clock or other timer an image capture device such as a camera a positioning system device e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device one or more integrated circuits etc.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more databases or datastores not shown in to search for and or retrieve information related to the object and or marker. In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more datastores local to the mobile device and or server and in other embodiments the mobile device and or server access datastores remote to the mobile device and or server. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access both a memory and or datastore local to the mobile device and or server as well as a datastore remote from the mobile device and or server

The processor and other processors described herein may generally include circuitry for implementing communication and or logic functions of the mobile device . For example the processor may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and or other support circuits. Control and signal processing functions of the mobile device may be allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The processor thus may also include the functionality to encode and interleave messages and data prior to modulation and transmission. The processor may additionally include an internal data modem. Further the processor may include functionality to operate one or more software programs or applications which may be stored in the memory . For example the processor may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a web browser application . The web browser application may then allow the mobile device to transmit and receive web content such as for example location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like.

The processor may also be capable of operating applications such as an object recognition application . The object recognition application may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory of the device . Alternatively the object recognition application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in the integrated circuit . In such an embodiment the user may not download the object recognition application from a server.

In some embodiments the processor may also be capable of operating one or more applications such as one or more applications functioning as an artificial intelligence AI engine. The processor may recognize objects that it has identified in prior uses by way of the AI engine. In this way the processor may recognize specific objects and or classes of objects and store information related to the recognized objects in one or more memories and or databases discussed herein. Once the AI engine has thereby learned of an object and or class of objects the AI engine may run concurrently with and or collaborate with other modules or applications described herein to perform the various steps of the methods discussed. For example in some embodiments the AI engine recognizes an object that has been recognized before and stored by the AI engine. The AI engine may then communicate to another application or module of the mobile device and or server an indication that the object may be the same object previously recognized. In this regard the AI engine may provide a baseline or starting point from which to determine the nature of the object. In other embodiments the AI engine s recognition of an object is accepted as the final recognition of the object.

The processor may also be capable of operating applications such as an AR presentation application . The AR presentation application may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory of the mobile device . Alternatively the AR presentation application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in the Integrated circuit . In such an embodiment the user may not download the AR presentation application from a server.

The integrated circuit may include the necessary circuitry to provide the object recognition and or augmented reality functionality to the mobile device . Generally the integrated circuit will include data storage which may include data associated with the objects within a video stream that the object recognition application identifies as having a certain marker s . The integrated circuit and or data storage may be an integrated circuit a microprocessor a system on a chip a microcontroller or the like. As discussed above in one embodiment the integrated circuit may provide the object recognition and or the AR functionality to the mobile device .

Of note while illustrates the integrated circuit as a separate and distinct element within the mobile device it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the integrated circuit functionality may be incorporated within other elements in the mobile device . For instance the functionality of the integrated circuit may be incorporated within the mobile device memory and or processor . In a particular embodiment the functionality of the integrated circuit is incorporated in an element within the mobile device that provides object recognition and or AR capabilities to the mobile device . In some embodiments the integrated circuit functionality is present in the firmware of the mobile device . Still further the integrated circuit functionality may be included in a removable storage device such as an SD card or the like.

The processor may be configured to use the network interface to communicate with one or more other devices on a network. In this regard the network interface may include an antenna operatively coupled to a transmitter and a receiver together a transceiver . The processor may be configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system of the wireless telephone network that may be part of the network. In this regard the mobile device may be configured to operate with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation communication protocols and or the like. For example the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and or IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and or time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like. The mobile device may also be configured to operate in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms such as via a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication data networks.

The network interface may also include an object recognition interface in order to allow a user to execute some or all of the above described processes with respect to the object recognition application and or the integrated circuit . The object recognition interface may have access to the hardware e.g. the transceiver and software previously described with respect to the network interface . Furthermore the object recognition interface may have the ability to connect to and communicate with an external data storage on a separate system within the network as a means of recognizing the object s in the video stream.

As described above the mobile device may have a user interface that includes user output devices and or user input devices . The user output devices may include a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or the like and a speaker or other audio device which are operatively coupled to the processor . The user input devices which may allow the mobile device to receive data from a user may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile device to receive data from a user such as a keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad microphone mouse joystick other pointer device button soft key and or other input device s .

The mobile device may further include a power source . Generally the power source is a device that supplies electrical energy to an electrical load. In one embodiment power source may convert a form of energy such as solar energy chemical energy mechanical energy etc. to electrical energy. Generally the power source in a mobile device may be a battery such as a lithium battery a nickel metal hydride battery or the like that is used for powering various circuits e.g. the transceiver circuit and other devices that are used to operate the mobile device . Alternatively the power source may be a power adapter that can connect a power supply from a power outlet to the mobile device . In such embodiments a power adapter may be classified as a power source in the mobile device.

The mobile device may also include a memory operatively coupled to the processor . As used herein memory may include any computer readable medium configured to store data code or other information. The memory may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The memory may also include non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively include an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like.

The memory may store any of a number of applications or programs which comprise computer executable instructions code executed by the processor to implement the functions of the mobile device described herein. For example the memory may include such applications as an object recognition application an augmented reality AR presentation application a web browser application a Short Message Service SMS application an electronic mail i.e. email application etc.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an object recognition experience in which a user utilizes a mobile device to capture a video stream that includes an environment is shown. As denoted earlier the mobile device may be any mobile communication device. The mobile device has the capability of capturing a video stream of the surrounding environment . The video capture may be by any means known in the art. In one particular embodiment the mobile device is a mobile telephone equipped with an image capture device e.g. a camera capable of video capture.

The environment contains a number of objects . Some of such objects may include a marker identifiable to an object recognition application that is either executed on the mobile device or within the wireless network. A marker may be any type of marker that is a distinguishing feature that can be interpreted by the object recognition application to identify specific objects . For instance an AR marker may be alpha numeric characters symbols logos shapes ratio of size of one feature to another feature a product identifying code such as a bar code electromagnetic radiation such as radio waves e.g. radio frequency identification RFID architectural features color etc. In some embodiments the marker may be audio and the mobile device may be capable of utilizing audio recognition to identify words or unique sounds broadcast. The marker may be any size shape etc. Indeed in some embodiments the marker may be very small relative to the object such as the alpha numeric characters that identify the name or model of an object whereas in other embodiments the marker is the entire object such as the unique shape size structure etc.

In some embodiments the marker is not actually a physical marker located on or being broadcast by the object. For instance the marker may be some type of identifiable feature that is an indication that the object is nearby e.g. a tag or placard near the object . In some embodiments the marker for an object may actually be the marker for a different object . For example the mobile device may recognize a particular building as being Building A. Data stored in the data storage may indicate that Building B is located directly to the east and next to Building A. Thus markers for an object that are not located on or being broadcast by the object are generally based on fixed facts about the object e.g. Building B is next to Building A . However it is not a requirement that such a marker be such a fixed fact. The marker may be anything that enables the mobile device to interpret to a desired confidence level what the object is. For another example the mobile device object recognition application and or AR presentation application may be used to identify a particular person as a first character from a popular show and thereafter utilize the information that the first character is nearby features of other characters to interpret that a second character a third character etc. are nearby whereas without the identification of the first character the features of the second and third characters may not have been used to identify the second and third characters. This example may also be applied to objects outside of people.

The marker may also be or include social network data such as data retrieved or communicated from the Internet such as tweets blog posts social networking site posts various types of messages and or the like. In other embodiments the marker is provided in addition to social network data as mentioned above. For example the mobile device may capture a video stream and or one or more still shots including a large gathering of people. In this example as above one or more people dressed as characters in costumes may be present at a specified location. The mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application may identify several social network indicators such as posts blogs tweets messages and or the like indicating the presence of one or more of the characters at the specified location. In this way the mobile device and associated applications may communicate information regarding the social media communications to the user and or use the information regarding the social media communications in conjunction with other methods of object recognition. For example the mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application performing recognition of the characters at the specified location may confirm that the characters being identified are in fact the correct characters based on the retrieved social media communications. This example may also be applied objects outside of people.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access one or more other servers social media networks applications and or the like in order to retrieve and or search for information useful in performing an object recognition. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an application programming interface or API. In this regard the mobile device and or server may quickly search and or retrieve information from the other program without requiring additional authentication steps or other gateway steps.

While illustrates that the objects with markers only include a single marker it will be appreciated that the object may have any number of markers with each equally capable of identifying the object . Similarly multiple markers may be identified by the mobile device such that the combination of the markers may be utilized to identify the object . For example the mobile device may utilize facial recognition markers to identify a person and or utilize a separate marker such as the clothes the person is wearing to confirm the identification to the desired confidence level that the person is in fact the person the mobile device identified. For example the facial recognition may identify a person as a famous athlete and thereafter utilize the uniform the person is wearing to confirm that it is in fact the famous athlete.

In some embodiments a marker may be the location of the object . In such embodiments the mobile device may utilize Global Positioning System GPS hardware and or software or some other location determining mechanism to determine the location of the user and or object . As noted above a location based marker could be utilized in conjunction with other non location based markers identifiable and recognized by the mobile device to identify the object . However in some embodiments a location based marker may be the only marker . For instance in such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user and a compass device or software to determine what direction the mobile device is facing in order to identify the object . In still further embodiments the mobile device does not utilize any GPS data in the identification. In such embodiments markers utilized to identify the object are not location based.

The object recognition application may use any type of means in order to identify desired objects . For instance the object recognition application may utilize one or more pattern recognition algorithms to analyze objects in the environment and compare with markers in data storage which may be contained within the mobile device such as within the integrated circuit or externally on a separate system accessible via the connected network. For example the pattern recognition algorithms may include decision trees logistic regression Bayes classifiers support vector machines kernel estimation perceptrons clustering algorithms regression algorithms categorical sequence labeling algorithms real valued sequence labeling algorithms parsing algorithms general algorithms for predicting arbitrarily structured labels such as Bayesian networks and Markov random fields ensemble learning algorithms such as bootstrap aggregating boosting ensemble averaging combinations thereof and the like.

Upon identifying an object within the real time video stream the AR presentation application is configured to superimpose an indicator on the mobile device display . The indicator is generally a graphical representation that highlights or outlines the object and may be activatable i.e. include an embedded link such that the user may select the indicator and retrieve information related to the identified object. The information may include any desired information associated with the selected object and may range from basic information to greatly detailed information. In some embodiments the indicator may provide the user with an internet hyperlink to further information on the object . The information may include for example all types of media such as text images clipart video clips movies or any other type of information desired. In yet other embodiments the indicator information related to the identified object may be visualized by the user without selecting the indicator .

In embodiments in which the indicator provides an interactive tab to the user the user may select the indicator by any conventional means e.g. keystroke touch voice command iris recognition or the like for interaction with the mobile device . For instance in some embodiments the user may utilize an input device such as a keyboard to highlight and select the indicator in order to retrieve the information. In a particular embodiment the mobile device display includes a touch screen that the user may employ to select the indicator utilizing the user s finger a stylus or the like.

In some embodiments the indicator is not interactive and simply provides information to the user by superimposing the indicator onto the display . For example in some instances it may be beneficial for the AR presentation application to merely identify an object just identify the object s name title give brief information about the object etc. rather than provide extensive detail that requires interaction with the indicator . The AR presentation application is capable of being tailored to a user s desired preferences.

Furthermore the indicator may be displayed at any size on the mobile device display . The indicator may be small enough that it is positioned on or next to the object being identified such that the object remains discernable behind the indicator . Additionally the indicator may be semi transparent or an outline of the object such that the object remains discernable behind or enclosed by the indicator . In other embodiments the indicator may be large enough to completely cover the object portrayed on the display . Indeed in some embodiments the indicator may cover a majority or the entirety of the mobile device display .

The user may opt to execute the object recognition application and or the AR presentation application at any desired moment and begin video capture and analysis. However in some embodiments the object recognition application and or the AR presentation application includes an always on feature in which the mobile device is continuously capturing video and analyzing the objects within the video stream. In such embodiments the object recognition application may be configured to alert the user that a particular object has been identified. The user may set any number of user preferences to tailor the object recognition and AR experience to their needs. For instance the user may opt to only be alerted if a certain particular object is identified. Additionally it will be appreciated that the always on feature in which video is continuously captured may consume the mobile device power source more quickly. Thus in some embodiments the always on feature may disengage if a determined event occurs such as low power source low levels of light for an extended period of time e.g. such as if the mobile device is in a user s pocket obstructing a clear view of the environment from the mobile device if the mobile device remains stationary thus receiving the same video stream for an extended period of time the user sets a certain time of day to disengage etc. Conversely if the always on feature is disengaged due to the occurrence of such an event the user may opt for the always on feature to re engage after the duration of the disengaging event e.g. power source is re charged light levels are increased etc. .

In some embodiments the user may identify objects that the object recognition application does not identify and add it to the data storage with desired information in order to be identified and or displayed in the future. For instance the user may select an unidentified object and enter a name title and or any other desired information for the unidentified object . In such embodiments the object recognition application may detect record certain markers about the object so that the pattern recognition algorithm s or other identification means may detect the object in the future. Furthermore in cases where the object information is within the data storage but the object recognition application fails to identify the object e.g. one or more identifying characteristics or markers of the object has changed since it was added to the data storage or the marker simply was not identified the user may select the object and associate it with an object already stored in the data storage . In such cases the object recognition application may be capable of updating the markers for the object in order to identify the object in future video streams.

In addition in some embodiments the user may opt to edit the information or add to the information provided by the indicator . For instance the user may opt to include user specific information about a certain object such that the information may be displayed upon a future identification of the object . Conversely in some embodiments the user may opt to delete or hide an object from being identified and an indicator associated therewith being displayed on the mobile device display .

Furthermore in some instances an object may include one or more markers identified by the object recognition application that leads the object recognition application to associate an object with more than one object in the data storage . In such instances the user may be presented with the multiple candidate identifications and may opt to choose the appropriate identification or input a different identification. The multiple candidates may be presented to the user by any means. For instance in one embodiment the candidates are presented to the user as a list wherein the strongest candidate is listed first based on reliability of the identification. Upon input by the user identifying the object the object recognition application may learn from the input and store additional markers in order to avoid multiple identification candidates for the same object in future identifications.

Additionally the object recognition application may utilize other metrics for identification than identification algorithms. For instance the object recognition application may utilize the user s location time of day season weather speed of location changes e.g. walking versus traveling busyness e.g. how many objects are in motion versus stationary in the video stream as well any number of other conceivable factors in determining the identification of objects . Moreover the user may input preferences or other metrics for which the object recognition application may utilize to narrow results of identified objects .

In some embodiments the AR presentation application may have the ability to gather and report user interactions with displayed indicators . The data elements gathered and reported may include but are not limited to number of offer impressions time spent viewing an offer product object or business number of offers investigated via a selection number of offers loaded to an electronic wallet and the like. Such user interactions may be reported to any type of entity desired. In one particular embodiment the user interactions may be reported to a financial institution and the information reported may include customer financial behavior purchase power transaction history and the like.

In various embodiments information associated with or related to one or more objects that is retrieved for presentation to a user via the mobile device may be permanently or semi permanently associated with the object. In other words the object may be tagged with the information. In some embodiments a location pointer is associated with an object after information is retrieved regarding the object. In this regard subsequent mobile devices capturing the object for recognition may retrieve the associated information tags and or pointers in order to more quickly retrieve information regarding the object. In some embodiments the mobile device provides the user an opportunity to post messages links to information or the like and associate such postings with the object. Subsequent users may then be presenting such postings when their mobile devices capture and recognize an object. In some embodiments the information gathered through the recognition and information retrieval process may be posted by the user in association with the object. Such tags and or postings may be stored in a predetermined memory and or database for ease of searching and retrieval.

Turning to a high level overview of a method of presenting information based on a representation of a subject is provided. In an embodiment the method includes recognizing via a mobile device the representation of the subject identifying via a computing device processor the subject based on an analysis of the representation retrieving information corresponding to the subject and presenting information using the mobile device the information related to the subject presented in conjunction with presentation of the representation.

Throughout this specification the terms AR system AR device and AR method will be used. These terms refer to the aggregate functionality described herein. For example the AR system can refer to the mobile device in conjunction with the computing device processor AR presentation application Integrated circuit networked resources and or any data storage and input output devices as disclosed herein. The AR method can refer to the use of all or part of the AR system to present information related to subjects based on identified representations. In an embodiment this presentation occurs in an AR environment. The AR environment is not limited to real time or concurrent presentation of information. For example the presentation of information can be provided after a delay such as by presenting an emailed list of all representations identified in a recorded video stream or saved still shot.

As used herein objects are the visual or audible entities that are captured in a video or still shot. Objects include both subjects which are entities that can be captured in a video or still shot and representations which are entities that correspond to subjects that cannot easily be captured in a video or still shot. An example of a subject is an automobile while an example of a representation is a trademark on an automobile wherein the trademark corresponds to the company manufacturing the automobile. The subject corresponding to a representation can also be capturable in a video or still shot but for some reason the user is not able to do so when the user desires information on the subject. For example an individual can be easily captured in a video or still shot but the individual may not be present. In this case the user of the AR system and method described herein can use a photograph of the individual as a representation to receive information about the individual depicted in the photograph.

Turning now to block the computing device processor or a remote processor recognizes via a mobile device a representation of a subject. A representation is a broad concept and means anything that corresponds to a subject without actually being the subject. The representation can range from a very high level abstraction to one that is minimally distinguished from the subject. In one embodiment for example the representation is a screenshot of the subject such as a screenshot of an application running on a mobile device computer or video game system. In another embodiment the representation is a depiction of the subject such as a photograph or painting depicting a subject. In some embodiments the representation is an advertisement for a subject such as a movie poster or newspaper advertisement. In another embodiment the representation is a portion of the subject such as a recorded portion of a television show or online video. In another embodiment the representation is an identifying mark such as a trademark logo barcode or alphanumeric identifier. Each type of representation will be discussed in greater detail later with respect to . Further the types of representations disclosed herein are not limiting. Other types of representations are possible and the AR systems and methods disclosed herein are capable of recognizing them and providing information related to the subjects corresponding to those representations.

In block the computing device processor or a remote processor identifies the subject based on an analysis of the representation in conjunction with the AR presentation application . In some embodiments the AR system and method concurrently provides information related to the subject during depiction of the representation as an object in the AR environment. For example if a screenshot of an application is the representation the subject is the application itself and the information provided in the AR environment will be related to the application. The AR presentation application identifies the subject based on an analysis of the representation. In an embodiment the AR application analyzes markers on or associated with the representation and based on those markers identifies the subject. In some embodiments the analysis includes identifying one or more markers and then matching those markers with a listing of markers stored in one or more databases and or memory devices. The listing of markers in some embodiments includes data related to markers their respective association s with representations and or links to the subjects associated with those representations. In one example diagnostic features of screenshots for applications are stored in the database. The AR system searches the AR environment for objects that depict the diagnostic features and then correlates the features with the application. In another example the database includes markers associated with trademarks and the companies represented by those trademarks. When the AR system and method identifies the markers associated with the trademarks the company associated with that trademark is identified by retrieving the information from a database such as data storage on an Integrated circuit or in the mobile device memory . In some embodiments some or all the database is part of the mobile device and in other embodiments some or all the database is located remotely to the mobile device. In some such embodiments at least a part of the database is stored separately from the mobile device and accessed over a network.

Turning now to block the mobile device retrieves information corresponding to the subject. In some embodiments the mobile device retrieves the information from the mobile device memory or data storage on the Integrated circuit . In another embodiment the mobile device retrieves the information over a network such as the same network used to identify the subject from the representation. In another embodiment the mobile device retrieves information from a secure network associated with a financial institution. In another embodiment the mobile device retrieves the information from a locally provided network. For example a business may have a local wireless network that includes enhanced AR information for objects sold by the business.

The information received by the mobile device can vary broadly. In an embodiment the information varies based on the subject the environment and or the user. Types of information received will be discussed in detail with regards to the specific examples in . In some embodiments the information is customized with the user s or the subject s financial information. For example the information on an application can provide the option to purchase the subject directly from the AR environment. The information can be customized with the user s financial accounts so that the user can select the account that will be used to purchase the subject. In another example the financial information is customized based on the environment. For example if the AR system and method determines via the AR presentation application that the user is present at a car dealership e.g. the environment includes a number of cars of a single make identified by hood ornaments the AR system and method can present information related to car loans that the user may qualify for based on income down payment credit rating and or other financial information.

In block the mobile device presents the information the information related to the subject presented in conjunction with presentation of the representation. As discussed previously in an embodiment the information is presented in real time concurrently with the video or still shot such as on the mobile device display . In some embodiments the information is presented as an overlay on top of the video or still shot. In other embodiments the information is presented by itself that is not in conjunction with the video or still shot. In some embodiments for example a pop up box can appear next to a screenshot of an application and allow the user to view the aggregate ratings for the application. In an embodiment the pop up box is selectable and allows the user to open up a webpage or application that provides more detailed information than can be presented in the AR environment. The information can be presented temporarily or permanently when the AR environment captures the representation. In another embodiment the information is presented when the user moves a cursor over the representation views the representation or contacts the location on a touchscreen where the representation is depicted. The information can be presented visually such as in 2D or 3D or audibly such as a recording that plays when a representation is captured by the AR system or both visually and audibly.

To more clearly describe the relationships between objects markers subjects and representations provides a block diagram illustrating an AR experience in which a user utilizes a mobile device to capture video or still shots of an environment . The environment includes objects that are representations corresponding to unseen subjects. In an embodiment the unseen subjects include both abstract subjects such as trademarks and unavailable subjects such as individuals. For example the environment can include an automobile hood ornament that corresponds to an automobile company as well as a picture of an individual that corresponds to that individual. The automobile company is an abstract subject i.e. it is very difficult to capture an automobile company in a video or still shot. The individual however is merely an unavailable subject. If the individual were available the individual could be captured in a video or still shot. In some embodiments the environment also includes subjects that can be captured in a real time video such as an automobile. Both the representations and the subjects that can be captured in a real time video include markers not shown that are used for identification purposes by the AR system and method. The AR system may also provide recognition by the sensing of different light frequencies i.e. X ray UV infrared radio etc. in order to have vision through objects for further object detection.

Turning briefly to an example of an AR environment including both representations and subjects is provided. The mobile device captures a second mobile device in a video stream or screenshot . Application icons are depicted on the screen of the second mobile device and represent the applications themselves. The AR device and method can identify the application icons and provide information related to the applications themselves through the AR environment. Additionally the second mobile device is a subject that can be captured directly. Information related to the second mobile device such as the name of the device the manufacturer of the device or links to purchase the device can also be provided in the AR environment. This example is merely meant to illustrate that the environment can include both representations and subjects that can be captured in video. Both are depicted as objects in the environment .

In the mobile device is capable of communicating over a network with databases such as an AR database a financial institution database and or any other type of database. In an embodiment this allows the AR system to identify the representations based on markers stored in the databases and then retrieve information related to the corresponding subjects from the databases. This information is then presented to the user through the mobile device in conjunction with the display of the representations as discussed previously.

In some embodiments the information provided by the real time video stream may be compared to data provided to the system through an API. In this way the data may be stored in a separate API and be implemented by request from the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an API.

Turning again to an embodiment of the invention is disclosed wherein the representation is a screenshot of the subject on a computing device. For example the screenshot can be of an application executing or installed on a computing device. In one embodiment the application is on a mobile device such as a portable phone or PDA. The application may also be installed on or executing on a laptop desktop or tablet computer. In some embodiments the application is a computer game on a gaming system television or handheld gaming device. In one embodiment the application is recognized by a screenshot of an icon placed on the desktop or screen of the computing device after the application is installed. In another embodiment the application is recognized by a screenshot of the application during execution. depicts a second mobile device having an application executing on the screen while two icons representing additional applications are present at the base of the screen . In one embodiment the AR system and method described herein allows one user to take a real time video of an application using a first mobile device wherein the application is executing on a second mobile device . The AR depiction on the first mobile device presents information relating to the application or applications on the second mobile device . The AR depiction can present the information immediately or concurrently with the action taking place on the second mobile device or the AR depiction can be called up at a later point and present the information then.

In one embodiment the AR system and method presents information related to each of the applications through call outs pop ups or selectable links . In another embodiment the AR system and method presents information audibly when a representation is highlighted or selected. In a still further embodiment the AR system and method presents information in a list or written form such as in a document webpage email or text message. Other types of presentation are possible and the aforementioned list is not intended to limit the manner by which the information relating the subjects can be presented.

The information presented relates to the applications themselves and in some cases relates to specific characteristics of applications such as frequent updating frequently changing prices customization and the existence of the same application across multiple computing platforms. In an embodiment the information includes the name of the application the manufacturer of the application the cost of the application the version of the application the operating systems that the application is capable of executing on and other general information related to the application. For example the AR system can identify an application and determine whether the application is a more recent version or upgrade of the application than the version existing on the user s mobile device. Applications are frequently updated and being able to identify new versions provides valuable information to users. In another embodiment the information provides a link to further information about the application. For example the AR system can identify an application and then provide a link to reviews or rating for the application . In one embodiment a general rating is provided and then a link to detailed or individual user reviews is provided. In a still further embodiment the category of the application can be determined and similar applications within the same category can be presented to the user.

In a still further embodiment information on the application can include a link to download and or install the application through the AR environment. In one embodiment the information can be customized for the user of the system and or method by including the user s financial information with the application. The AR system can automatically purchase the application when selected in the AR environment. In another embodiment the application itself can be customized with the user s financial information . For example the user s previous purchases at a business can be uploaded into an application related to the business. In some cases this may provide the user with enhanced privileges based on customer loyalty programs or the like. Many finance and budgeting applications can be enhanced by financial information of the user including account numbers transactions and or balance information. In a still further embodiment the financial information used to customize the information relates to the cost history of the product. The financial institution may be able to track the price of certain types of products or subjects depicted in the AR environment and add value to the user s experience by updating the subject information with the price history of the subject corresponding to the representation.

Turning now to an embodiment of the invention is disclosed wherein the representation is a depiction of the subject or subjects. In an embodiment the depiction is a photograph of the subject. For example individuals can be depicted in a photograph and identified by markers specific to those individuals. Analysis can be performed on the photograph using facial recognition software or other analytical devices and information pertaining to the identified individuals can be presented in the real time AR environment. In another embodiment the depiction is a picture or painting of the subject. In some embodiments the picture or painting accurately represents the subject so that the AR system identifies the subject. In other embodiments the markers alone are sufficient to identify subjects from abstract pictures or paintings. For example if a bowtie and a red hat are diagnostic features of an individual the AR system and method can identify the individual from a painting of the individual where the bowtie and red hat are depicted. This identification is often assisted by contextual clues in the AR environment. For example if the individual is a representative of a business and a trademark representing the business is also present in the picture or painting then the AR system can evaluate the individual using the additional markers present in the environment.

The information presented in the AR environment with the representations corresponds to the subjects depicted by the representations. When the subject is an individual the individual s name contact information options to add the individual as a contact links to information such as social networking sites related to the individual and the like can be presented with the representation in the AR environment. Time sensitive information about individuals identified in the AR environment can also be presented such as links to buy tickets to the individual s upcoming performances reminders about the individual s upcoming birthday and other time sensitive information.

Depictions of media not shown can also be analyzed by the AR system. For example the cover of a book the cover of a CD or the cover of a magazine can be analyzed based on a depiction in a photograph picture or painting. A photograph of a book cover can be analyzed by the AR system and markers associated with the title the subjects depicted on the cover and any other diagnostic features on the cover can be identified. Information such as the author of the book other books by the author reviews of the book a link to purchase the book and the like can be presented in the AR environment with the presentation of the representation of the book.

Information presented in conjunction with depictions can also be customized with financial information. In an embodiment the user can identify the individual in the depiction and initiate a transfer of money to or from the individual . In another embodiment the AR environment can present financial information associated with the subjects depicted in the AR environment. For example prices of products depicted in the AR environment can be presented along with the depiction. In some embodiments the AR system includes privacy controls to allow individuals represented in depictions to control the information presented in association with their depiction. If an individual authorizes release of information the AR environment can be supplemented with said information. For example an individual may authorize release of information related to businesses patronized by the individual. A merchant using an embodiment of the invention could capture a depiction of the individual and recognize that the individual has made a purchase at her store.

In an embodiment of the invention is disclosed wherein the representation is an advertisement for a subject. The advertisement can be a flyer poster or other type of visual advertisement for the subject. In the example depicted in a movie poster is captured in a real time video stream. The AR system and method identifies the movie represented by the poster advertisement and presents information such as reviews of the movie options to buy tickets to the movie or a DVD of the movie or profiles of the actors in the movie. In an embodiment the AR system and method presents the information close to specific representations in the advertisement. For example in a biography of the actor is presented close to the actor s name in the movie poster. Additionally further information related to the actor such as other movies the actor was in can be presented in the AR environment . In another embodiment the advertisement is in a newspaper or flyer not shown . The information presented in association with the advertisement may be details of a sale occurring at the business in the advertisement or a link to the business s website. In a still further embodiment the advertisement is a movie preview and the AR system identifies the movie being advertised in the preview. In some embodiments the advertisement is audible in nature. For example the AR system may detect a commercial theme song or product jingle in the AR environment and present information relating to the product being advertised in the commercial.

The type of information that can be presented in association with an advertisement includes information on the subject being advertised options to interact with the subject and associated information. Advertisements include many options for presenting information customized by financial information from a financial institution. For example information presented in conjunction of a subject may include the sales price or the price history from all purchasers of the subject available in the financial institution s database. For example the AR environment can not only allow the user to purchase an item directly but can also inform the user of the remaining balance in the user s account after the purchase. The user can include a budget associated with the financial accounts and the AR environment can present information related to the user s budget with the advertisement e.g. you budgeted 100 for entertainment this month and this show costs 40 leaving you 60 left in your entertainment budget.

In an embodiment of the invention is disclosed wherein the representation is a portion of the subject that is captured in a video or screenshot. For example a portion of a television show may be recorded and identified by the AR system and method. In another example a portion of a movie music video text from within a book online video song lecture and the like are captured by the AR system and identified. In the example depicted in a real time video of a television show is captured by the AR system and method. The television show is identified by the portion of the television show that is recorded and information relating to the show itself is presented to the user. For example the name of the show the option to buy the DVD of the show and in some embodiments the ability to set a home recording system such as a DVR to record the show remotely is presented to the user. Further information such as a plot summary of the specific episode can also be provided once the subject i.e. the show itself is identified. Online videos and movies can also be captured and supplemented in a similar manner. In another embodiment text from within a book or magazine is identified and information is presented about the entire book. For example a quote from a book may be reproduced on a sheet of paper. The AR system and method can capture the text on the sheet of paper and identify the book from which the passage comes. Links to purchasing the book reviews of the book the text before and after the representative text and the like can be included in the presentation. In a still further embodiment a live lecture can be recorded and supplemented with information presented related to the subject of the lecture. For example keywords pictures or the lecturer can be identified as described herein and the information can be presented as the lecture is occurring. This can be advantageously used in educational settings to present information related to the subject matter that is not discussed in the lecture.

The type of information that can be presented in conjunction with a portion of a subject includes the full title and identifying information of the portion a link to the full subject or the like. The AR system and method advantageously allows users to identify subjects from a mere portion of the subject captured in a mobile device. By providing the capability to identify the full subject from a representative portion of the subject the AR system and method described herein can supplement the portion with detailed information. In some embodiments the information related to the subject can be customized using financial information as described herein.

Turning now to an embodiment of the invention is disclosed wherein the representation is an identifying mark . In some embodiments the identifying mark is a trademark service mark logo insignia bar code or other mark that identifies a product or producer. In another embodiment the representation is an alphanumeric identifier such as an address email address phone number URL address or geographic coordinates. In an embodiment the AR system and method recognizes the identifying mark or alphanumeric identifier based on markers associated with the mark or identifier. The marks and associated markers can be stored locally on the mobile device or stored in a remote database. In one embodiment the identifying marks are associated with a specific business team or organization. In another embodiment the identifying marks are associated with a specific person or place. For example a phone number can be captured in a video or still shot and the AR environment can identify the person associated with the phone number. If pictures of the person are available online or in a database such as the user s local database on the mobile device the AR device can provide the individual s picture in conjunction with the user s name email address or telephone number. Street addresses can be identified and a street view picture of the address can be presented as information overlaid on the street address. In the example depicted in a sports team logo is present on a t shirt . The AR system and method is able of identifying the logo from markings and presenting information related to the team that the logo represents.

In some embodiments information such as contact information name or category is provided with the representation. For example the AR method may provide information relating to the team s schedule . The AR method may provide information relating to the team s tickets as well as the ability to purchase tickets directly . The information can be customized using the user s financial information. For example the AR method can determine that a user is a supporter of a team based on purchases at the team s facility on the team s website or other purchases that can be identified as related to the team. Once known this information can be used to customize offers in the presented information. For example a fan of a team does not need information on what the team logo represents. Instead the individual may be interested in the team schedule seeing tickets and merchandise individuals associated with the user purchased or purchasing team gear and hence this information can be preferentially presented to the user in the AR environment.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like have been disclosed that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with commerce activities. Through the use real time vision object recognition objects logos artwork products locations and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream can be matched to data associated with such to assist the user with commerce activity. The commerce activity may include but is not limited to conducting a transaction providing information about a product service providing rewards based information providing user specific offers or the like. In specific embodiments the data that matched to the images in the real time video stream is specific to financial institutions such as customer financial behavior history customer purchase power transaction history and the like. In this regard many of the embodiments herein disclosed leverage financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institution in providing information to mobile devices users in connection with real time video stream analysis.

The systems methods computer program products etc. described herein may be utilized or combined with any other suitable AR related application. Non limiting examples of other suitable AR related applications include those described in the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference 

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention as disclosed herein. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

