---

title: Systems and methods for aggregating event information
abstract: A computer-implemented method for aggregating event information may include 1) identifying a plurality of social networking data feeds, 2) identifying a time and a location of an event involving at least one person associated with at least one social networking data feed within the plurality of social networking data feeds, 3) mining the plurality of social networking data feeds for event data about the event, and 4) creating an event document from the event data to describe the event. Various other methods, systems, and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09148392&OS=09148392&RS=09148392
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 09148392
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120215
---
In the information age people increasingly organize their lives online store their information in cloud based applications and connect with other people via social networking platforms. In some cases entire events may be planned and or recorded through social networking platforms. For example friends may coordinate events online through electronic invitations calendaring applications or simply by posting messages. These friends may then use social networking platforms to check in at the events store and or share pictures and or videos of the events and or post about the events before during and or after the events.

Unfortunately traditional social networking platforms may give only a narrow and fleeting view of events. For example multiple people may chronicle an event using a variety of social networking platforms but a social networking feed corresponding to a single person on a single social networking platform may only reflect a fraction of the data generated about the event and that data may quickly become buried by new information in the social networking feed. Accordingly the instant disclosure identifies and addresses a need for systems and methods for aggregating event information.

As will be described in greater detail below the instant disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for aggregating event information by mining information relating to an identified event e.g. based on a determined time and location of the vent from disparate social networking data feeds and combining the information into a unified document. In one example a computer implemented method for aggregating event information may include 1 identifying a plurality of social networking data feeds 2 identifying a time and a location of an event involving at least one person associated with at least one social networking data feed within the plurality of social networking data feeds 3 mining the plurality of social networking data feeds for event data about the event and 4 creating an event document from the event data to describe the event.

In some examples identifying the plurality of social networking data feeds may include 1 identifying at least one participant in the event and 2 identifying at least one personal social networking feed associated with the participant. In these examples identifying the personal social networking feed associated with the participant may include 1 identifying a root social networking feed and 2 mining the root social networking feed for the personal social networking feed associated with the participant.

In one example identifying the time and the location of the event may include mining the time and the location of the event from at least one social networking data feed within the plurality of social networking data feeds. In another example identifying the time and the location of the event may include identifying the time and location of the event within at least one of 1 an event invitation defined by a social networking platform used for at least one of the plurality of social networking data feeds 2 a calendar event defined by the social networking platform and 3 an event announcement defined by the social networking platform.

The event data may include any of a variety of data. For example the event data may include 1 a social networking check in at the event 2 a picture taken at the event 3 a video taken at the event 4 a social networking post created at the event and or 5 a social networking post created about the event. In some examples mining the plurality of social networking data feeds for event data may include 1 mining a private social networking data feed for the event data and 2 mining at least one public social networking data feed for the event data. In some embodiments creating the event document may include posting the event data to at least one social networking site.

In one embodiment a system for implementing the above described method may include 1 a feed module programmed to identify a plurality of social networking data feeds 2 an identification module programmed to identify a time and a location of an event involving at least one person associated with at least one social networking data feed within the plurality of social networking data feeds 3 a mining module programmed to mine the plurality of social networking data feeds for event data about the event and 4 a creation module programmed to create an event document from the event data to describe the event. The system may also include at least one processor configured to execute the feed module the identification module the mining module and the creation module.

In some examples the above described method may be encoded as computer readable instructions on a computer readable storage medium. For example a computer readable storage medium may include one or more computer executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor of a computing device may cause the computing device to 1 identify a plurality of social networking data feeds 2 identify a time and a location of an event involving at least one person associated with at least one social networking data feed within the plurality of social networking data feeds 3 mine the plurality of social networking data feeds for event data about the event and 4 create an event document from the event data to describe the event.

As will be explained in greater detail below by mining information relating to an identified event e.g. based on a determined time and location of the event from disparate social networking data feeds and combining the information into a unified document the systems and methods described herein may leverage existing social networking activity to thoroughly and automatically chronicle events.

Features from any of the above mentioned embodiments may be used in combination with one another in accordance with the general principles described herein. These and other embodiments features and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

Throughout the drawings identical reference characters and descriptions indicate similar but not necessarily identical elements. While the exemplary embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the instant disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

The following will provide with reference to detailed descriptions of exemplary systems for aggregating event information. Detailed descriptions of corresponding computer implemented methods will also be provided in connection with . Detailed descriptions of exemplary social networking feeds and an exemplary event document will be provided in connection with respectively. In addition detailed descriptions of an exemplary computing system and network architecture capable of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein will be provided in connection with respectively.

In addition and as will be described in greater detail below exemplary system may include a mining module programmed to mine the plurality of social networking data feeds for event data about the event. Exemplary system may also include a creation module programmed to create an event document from the event data to describe the event. Although illustrated as separate elements one or more of modules in may represent portions of a single module or application.

In certain embodiments one or more of modules in may represent one or more software applications or programs that when executed by a computing device may cause the computing device to perform one or more tasks. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may represent software modules stored and configured to run on one or more computing devices such as the devices illustrated in e.g. computing device and or servers computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . One or more of modules in may also represent all or portions of one or more special purpose computers configured to perform one or more tasks.

Exemplary system in may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example all or a portion of exemplary system may represent portions of exemplary system in . As shown in system may include a computing device in communication with servers via a network e.g. to mine social networking feed data from servers .

In one embodiment feed module identification module mining module and or creation module may when executed by at least one processor of computing device facilitate computing device in aggregating event information. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may cause computing device to 1 identify social networking data feeds e.g. feeds 2 identify a time and a location of an event involving at least one person associated with at least one social networking data feed within feeds 3 mine feeds for event data about the event and 4 create an event document from event data to describe the event.

Computing device generally represents any type or form of computing device capable of reading computer executable instructions. Examples of computing device include without limitation laptops tablets desktops servers cellular phones personal digital assistants PDAs multimedia players embedded systems combinations of one or more of the same exemplary computing system in or any other suitable computing device.

Servers generally represent any type or form of computing device that is capable of receiving generating hosting processing and or providing social networking feed data. Examples of servers include without limitation application servers and database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications.

Network generally represents any medium or architecture capable of facilitating communication or data transfer. Examples of network include without limitation an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a personal area network PAN the Internet power line communications PLC a cellular network e.g. a GSM Network exemplary network architecture in or the like. Network may facilitate communication or data transfer using wireless or wired connections. In one embodiment network may facilitate communication between computing device and servers .

As illustrated in at step one or more of the systems described herein may identify a plurality of social networking data feeds. For example at step feed module may as part of computing device in identify social networking data feeds e.g. feeds .

As used herein the phrase social networking data may refer to any stored by generated by organized by managed by processed by and or provided by a social networking platform. As used herein the phrase social networking platform may refer to any service platform and or Internet site that manages social connections and or shares compiles formats and or broadcasts information based on social connections. Examples of social networking platforms may include FACEBOOK TWITTER GOOGLE LINKEDIN and FLICKR. In some examples the phrase social networking data may also refer to data hosted by cloud based applications e.g. web based email clients online calendar applications online picture albums etc. for personal and or private use.

As used herein the term feed may refer to any data format providing updated content related to a subject e.g. a person a topic an organization etc. . Additionally or alternatively the term feed may refer to a list and or aggregation of such updates over time. In some examples the term feed may refer to a human readable feed e.g. an Internet resource for displaying recent content associated with the feed . Additionally or alternatively the term feed may refer to a computer readable feed e.g. an XML document including a list of data objects .

Accordingly the phrase social networking data feed may refer to any feed of social networking data. In some examples a social networking data feed may include a public feed. For example a public social networking data feed and or the contents thereof may be publicly accessible. Additionally or alternatively a social networking data feed may include a private feed. For example access to a private social networking data feed may be restricted to a specified list of users a specified category of users e.g. members of a social networking site users within a certain distance on a social networking relationship graph etc. or even exclusively to the owner and or creator of the private social networking data feed.

In some examples the plurality of social networking data feeds may include social networking data feeds that are created controlled owned and or managed by a single user but correspond to multiple separate social networking data platforms e.g. one user s FACEBOOK and FLICKR accounts . Additionally or alternatively the plurality of social networking data feeds may include social networking data feeds that are created controlled owned and or managed by separate users but correspond to the same social networking data platform e.g. various users FACEBOOK accounts . In some examples the plurality of social networking data feeds may include social networking data feeds that are created controlled owned and or managed by separate users and correspond to multiple separate social networking data platforms.

Feed module may identify the plurality of social networking data feeds in any of a variety of ways. For example feed module may read a configuration file and or receive an input designating one or more of the plurality of social networking data feeds. In some examples feed module may identify one or more of the plurality of social networking data feeds by monitoring browsing activity e.g. as a part of a browser plug in and identifying an interaction with a social networking data platform.

In some examples feed module may identify one or more of the plurality of social networking data feeds by identifying at least one participant in an event and then identifying at least one personal social networking feed associated with the participant e.g. created controlled owned managed by and or containing information about the participant . As will be explained in greater detail below in some examples one or more of the systems described herein may identify an event. In some examples these systems and methods may first identify the event and then identify one or more of the plurality of social networking data feeds based on the event. Additionally or alternatively feed module may identify the event and then identify one or more of the plurality of social networking data feeds based on the event. In some examples feed module may iteratively construct a list of the plurality of social networking data feeds and a view of the event by using a working list of social networking data feeds to gather information about a possible event and using the gathered information to find additional potentially related social networking data feeds.

Feed module may identify the personal social networking feed associated with the participant in any of a variety of ways. For example feed module may identify a root social networking feed and the mine the root social networking feed for the personal social networking feed associated with the participant. For example feed module may identify the root social networking feed by identifying a social networking feed owned by a user who has requested an event document from one or more of the systems described herein for whom an event document is to be constructed by these systems and or who has allowed access by these systems to the root social networking feed. Feed module may then mine the root social networking feed for the participant and any other participants by identifying contributions to the feed by the participant and or references to the participant in the feed. Additionally or alternatively feed module may mine the root social networking feed by accessing a list of contacts friends and or connections from a social networking platform corresponding to the root social networking feed.

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may identify a time and a location of an event involving at least one person associated with at least one social networking data feed within the plurality of social networking data feeds. For example at step identification module may as part of computing device in identify a time and a location of an event involving at least one person associated with at least one social networking data feed within feeds .

Identification module may identify the time and the location of the event in any of a variety of ways. For example identification module may mine the time and the location of the event from at least one social networking data feed within the plurality of social networking data feeds. For example identification module may parse one or more textual posts within the plurality of social networking data feeds to identify a time and or a location that textually appears to correspond to an event. Additionally or alternatively identification module may examine metadata corresponding to one or more submissions within the plurality of social networking data feeds that are clustered by time and location to infer an event.

In some examples identification module may identify the time and location of the event within structured data provided by a social networking platform. For example identification module may access an application programming interface of a social networking platform to retrieve structure data capable of defining and or partially defining an event. For example identification module may identify the time and or location of the event within an event invitation defined by a social networking platform used for at least one of the plurality of social networking data feeds. Additionally or alternatively identification module may identify the time and or location within a calendar event defined by the social networking platform. In this example identification module may identify the time and or location within multiple calendar events corresponding to different users. In some examples identification module may identify the time and or location within an event announcement defined by the social networking platform. Additionally or alternatively identification module may identify the time and or the location of the event by receiving input e.g. from a user requesting the creation of an event document specifying the time and or the location.

Identification module may identify the time in any suitable format and with a variety of possible levels of precision and or accuracy. For example identification module may identify the starting time of the event an estimated starting time of the event e.g. with a range of possible starting times and or a margin of error for the starting time a duration of the event an estimated duration of the event an ending time of the event and or an estimated ending time of the event. In some examples identification module may estimate and or revise estimates of the starting time of the event and or the ending time of the event based on the content of one or more of the social networking data feeds. For example identification module may identify a stated time of the event as 6 00 pm to 9 00 pm based on calendar information. Identification module may then revise the time of the event based on feed activity from the location of the event e.g. extending the ending time of the event to 11 30 pm instead of 9 00 pm . In some examples identification module may estimate the duration of the event by determining a type of the event e.g. estimating more than 24 hours for a camping trip but estimating a few hours for a sports watching party . Generally identification module may use any of the above techniques and or any other techniques in any combination e.g. using any suitable weightings heuristics and or algorithms to evaluate all factors in total.

Using as an example identification module may determine that an event has a start time and an end time . In some examples identification module may determine that event has a start time and an end time based on user input. Additionally or alternatively identification module may determine that event has a start time and an end time based on an event announcement and or a calendar event defined within a social networking platform of one or more of feeds and . In some examples identification module may determine that event has a start time and an end time based on the contents of one or more of feeds and . For example identification module may identify one or more past posts in feeds and specifying start time and or end time . Additionally or alternatively identification module may determine that event has an approximate start time of start time based on a check in in feed representing a first check in to the event. In an additional example identification module may determine that event has an approximate start time and end time based on determining that a picture a post a picture a picture a picture and a video were submitted to their respective feeds from the location of the event.

Identification module may identify the location in any suitable format and with a variety of possible levels of precision and or accuracy for example using any techniques analogous to the techniques described above by which identification module may identify the time of the event. For example identification module may identify an address of the event a geolocation of the event a named location of the event e.g. Andre s house Rocket Park Town Lake etc. and or any other location information pertaining to the event. In some examples identification module may assign estimated boundaries of the event based on an address and or named location of the event in combination with map data e.g. identifying the boundaries of a property based on map data corresponding to the address . Additionally or alternatively identification module may assign an estimated radius to the event based on determining the event venue type e.g. a house a park a convention center etc. and or the number of observed and or estimated attendees. In some examples identification module may estimate and or revise estimates of the location of the event based on the content of one or more of the social networking data feeds. For example identification module may observe the locations from which social networking feed events were submitted by apparent event participants e.g. based on accepted invitations references to the event in the submissions etc. and adjust the estimate of the central location and or an estimated radius based on these inputs. Generally identification module may use any of the above techniques and or any other techniques in any combination e.g. using any suitable weightings heuristics and or algorithms to evaluate all factors in total.

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may mine the plurality of social networking data feeds for event data about the event. For example at step mining module may as part of computing device in mine feeds for event data about the event.

As mentioned earlier the social networking data feeds may include human readable feeds and or computer readable feeds. Accordingly as used herein the term mining may refer to any suitable data mining technique for human readable data and or computer readable data.

Mining module may mine the plurality of social networking data feeds for event data in any of a variety of ways. For example mining module may identify one or more submissions to social networking data feeds within the plurality that correspond to the time and location of the event. For example mining module may check each feed element within each social networking data feed for the time that the feed element was submitted to the social networking data feed for a time accompanying the feed element in the submission to the site e.g. a creation time of the element represented in metadata by the social networking data feed and or time data embedded within the feed element e.g. time metadata embedded within a photograph specifying the creation time of the feed element. Likewise mining module may check each feed element for a location from which the feed element was submitted e.g. based on a user specified location geolocation data accompanying the feed element submitted by the device content of the feed element indicating the location etc. .

The event data may include any of a variety of data elements. For example the event data may include a social networking check in at the event. As used herein the term check in may refer to any indication and or assertion of an arrival and or presence at a location. In some examples a check in may be automatically generated by a device and submitted to a social networking platform. Additionally or alternatively a check in may be user initiated. The event data may additionally or alternatively include a picture taken at the event a video taken at the event a social networking post created at the event and or a social networking post created about the event. In some examples the social networking post created about the event may have been created before or after the event but may reference the event.

As mentioned earlier in some examples the plurality of social networking data feeds may include one or more public data feeds and or one or more private data feeds. Accordingly in some examples mining module may mine a private social networking data feed for the event data and mine at least one public social networking data feed for the event data. For example the private social networking data feed may be owned by a user requesting to create an event document of the event. Additionally or alternatively the private social networking data feed may include a data feed accessible only to a limited group. For example the private social networking data feed may include a data feed accessible to a user and by extension the systems described herein only because the user creating the event document has a defined social connection with another user with permissions to the private social networking data feed.

Using as an example mining module may mine feed and extract check in picture and post as event data while ignoring a post as outside the timeframe of event . Likewise mining module may mine feed and extract pictures and as event data while ignoring pictures and as outside the timeframe of event and ignoring a picture as outside a location of event . Similarly mining module may mine feed and extract a video as event data but ignore a post as outside a timeframe of event . However in some examples mining module may also extract a post as event data based on the proximity of post to the timeframe of event and the content of post referring to event e.g. discussing event after event has ended .

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may create an event document from the event data to describe the event. For example at step creation module may as part of computing device in create an event document from event data to describe the event.

As used herein the phrase event document may refer to any document database aggregated feed and or unified presentation. Creation module may create the event document in any suitable manner. For example creation module may post the event data to at least one social networking site. In some examples creation module may create a static document e.g. including pictures posts video etc. of the event. Additionally or alternatively creation module may create a dynamic presentation of the event. For example creation module may create a database from which features of the event may be searched and extracted. For example creation module may create an event document with event data elements sorted and or filtered by contributor e.g. which attendee submitted the data element sorted by time etc.

As explained above by mining information relating to an identified event e.g. based on a determined time and location of the vent from disparate social networking data feeds and combining the information into a unified document the systems and methods described herein may leverage existing social networking activity to thoroughly and automatically chronicle events.

Computing system broadly represents any single or multi processor computing device or system capable of executing computer readable instructions. Examples of computing system include without limitation workstations laptops client side terminals servers distributed computing systems handheld devices or any other computing system or device. In its most basic configuration computing system may include at least one processor and a system memory .

Processor generally represents any type or form of processing unit capable of processing data or interpreting and executing instructions. In certain embodiments processor may receive instructions from a software application or module. These instructions may cause processor to perform the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein.

System memory generally represents any type or form of volatile or non volatile storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. Examples of system memory include without limitation random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory or any other suitable memory device. Although not required in certain embodiments computing system may include both a volatile memory unit such as for example system memory and a non volatile storage device such as for example primary storage device as described in detail below . In one example one or more of modules from may be loaded into system memory .

In certain embodiments exemplary computing system may also include one or more components or elements in addition to processor and system memory . For example as illustrated in computing system may include a memory controller an Input Output I O controller and a communication interface each of which may be interconnected via a communication infrastructure . Communication infrastructure generally represents any type or form of infrastructure capable of facilitating communication between one or more components of a computing device. Examples of communication infrastructure include without limitation a communication bus such as an ISA PCI PCIe or similar bus and a network.

Memory controller generally represents any type or form of device capable of handling memory or data or controlling communication between one or more components of computing system . For example in certain embodiments memory controller may control communication between processor system memory and I O controller via communication infrastructure .

I O controller generally represents any type or form of module capable of coordinating and or controlling the input and output functions of a computing device. For example in certain embodiments I O controller may control or facilitate transfer of data between one or more elements of computing system such as processor system memory communication interface display adapter input interface and storage interface .

Communication interface broadly represents any type or form of communication device or adapter capable of facilitating communication between exemplary computing system and one or more additional devices. For example in certain embodiments communication interface may facilitate communication between computing system and a private or public network including additional computing systems. Examples of communication interface include without limitation a wired network interface such as a network interface card a wireless network interface such as a wireless network interface card a modem and any other suitable interface. In at least one embodiment communication interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct link to a network such as the Internet. Communication interface may also indirectly provide such a connection through for example a local area network such as an Ethernet network a personal area network a telephone or cable network a cellular telephone connection a satellite data connection or any other suitable connection.

In certain embodiments communication interface may also represent a host adapter configured to facilitate communication between computing system and one or more additional network or storage devices via an external bus or communications channel. Examples of host adapters include without limitation SCSI host adapters USB host adapters IEEE 1394 host adapters SATA and eSATA host adapters ATA and PATA host adapters Fibre Channel interface adapters Ethernet adapters or the like. Communication interface may also allow computing system to engage in distributed or remote computing. For example communication interface may receive instructions from a remote device or send instructions to a remote device for execution.

As illustrated in computing system may also include at least one display device coupled to communication infrastructure via a display adapter . Display device generally represents any type or form of device capable of visually displaying information forwarded by display adapter . Similarly display adapter generally represents any type or form of device configured to forward graphics text and other data from communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer as known in the art for display on display device .

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include at least one input device coupled to communication infrastructure via an input interface . Input device generally represents any type or form of input device capable of providing input either computer or human generated to exemplary computing system . Examples of input device include without limitation a keyboard a pointing device a speech recognition device or any other input device.

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include a primary storage device and a backup storage device coupled to communication infrastructure via a storage interface . Storage devices and generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. For example storage devices and may be a magnetic disk drive e.g. a so called hard drive a solid state drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash drive or the like. Storage interface generally represents any type or form of interface or device for transferring data between storage devices and and other components of computing system .

In certain embodiments storage devices and may be configured to read from and or write to a removable storage unit configured to store computer software data or other computer readable information. Examples of suitable removable storage units include without limitation a floppy disk a magnetic tape an optical disk a flash memory device or the like. Storage devices and may also include other similar structures or devices for allowing computer software data or other computer readable instructions to be loaded into computing system . For example storage devices and may be configured to read and write software data or other computer readable information. Storage devices and may also be a part of computing system or may be a separate device accessed through other interface systems.

Many other devices or subsystems may be connected to computing system . Conversely all of the components and devices illustrated in need not be present to practice the embodiments described and or illustrated herein. The devices and subsystems referenced above may also be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Computing system may also employ any number of software firmware and or hardware configurations. For example one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program also referred to as computer software software applications computer readable instructions or computer control logic on a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium generally refers to any form of device carrier or medium capable of storing or carrying computer readable instructions. Examples of computer readable storage media include without limitation transmission type media such as carrier waves and physical media such as magnetic storage media e.g. hard disk drives and floppy disks optical storage media e.g. CD or DVD ROMs electronic storage media e.g. solid state drives and flash media and other distribution systems.

The computer readable storage medium containing the computer program may be loaded into computing system . All or a portion of the computer program stored on the computer readable storage medium may then be stored in system memory and or various portions of storage devices and . When executed by processor a computer program loaded into computing system may cause processor to perform and or be a means for performing the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein may be implemented in firmware and or hardware. For example computing system may be configured as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC adapted to implement one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

Client systems and generally represent any type or form of computing device or system such as exemplary computing system in . Similarly servers and generally represent computing devices or systems such as application servers or database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications. Network generally represents any telecommunication or computer network including for example an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a personal area network PAN or the Internet. In one example client systems and or and or servers and or may include all or a portion of system from .

As illustrated in one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Similarly one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Storage devices N and storage devices N generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. In certain embodiments storage devices N and storage devices N may represent network attached storage NAS devices configured to communicate with servers and using various protocols such as NFS SMB or CIFS.

Servers and may also be connected to a storage area network SAN fabric . SAN fabric generally represents any type or form of computer network or architecture capable of facilitating communication between a plurality of storage devices. SAN fabric may facilitate communication between servers and and a plurality of storage devices N and or an intelligent storage array . SAN fabric may also facilitate via network and servers and communication between client systems and and storage devices N and or intelligent storage array in such a manner that devices N and array appear as locally attached devices to client systems and . As with storage devices N and storage devices N storage devices N and intelligent storage array generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions.

In certain embodiments and with reference to exemplary computing system of a communication interface such as communication interface in may be used to provide connectivity between each client system and and network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server or using for example a web browser or other client software. Such software may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N or intelligent storage array . Although depicts the use of a network such as the Internet for exchanging data the embodiments described and or illustrated herein are not limited to the Internet or any particular network based environment.

In at least one embodiment all or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program and loaded onto and executed by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N intelligent storage array or any combination thereof. All or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may also be encoded as a computer program stored in server run by server and distributed to client systems and over network .

As detailed above computing system and or one or more components of network architecture may perform and or be a means for performing either alone or in combination with other elements one or more steps of an exemplary method for aggregating event information.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

In some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of a cloud computing or network based environment. Cloud computing environments may provide various services and applications via the Internet. These cloud based services e.g. software as a service platform as a service infrastructure as a service etc. may be accessible through a web browser or other remote interface. Various functions described herein may be provided through a remote desktop environment or any other cloud based computing environment.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

While various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable storage media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

In addition one or more of the modules described herein may transform data physical devices and or representations of physical devices from one form to another. For example one or more of the modules recited herein may transform a computing system into a system for aggregating event information. As another example one or more of the modules recited herein may transform one or more social networking feeds into an event document.

The preceding description has been provided to enable others skilled in the art to best utilize various aspects of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein. This exemplary description is not intended to be exhaustive or to be limited to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the instant disclosure. The embodiments disclosed herein should be considered in all respects illustrative and not restrictive. Reference should be made to the appended claims and their equivalents in determining the scope of the instant disclosure.

Unless otherwise noted the terms a or an as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of. In addition for ease of use the words including and having as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. 

