---

title: Data integration and analysis
abstract: Uncorrelated data from a variety of sources, such as consumer panels or retailer points of sale, are combined with maximal coverage of a universal data set for a population in a manner that permits useful inferences about behavioral propensities for the population at an individual or household level.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08781877&OS=08781877&RS=08781877
owner: Information Resources, Inc.
number: 08781877
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120229
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 299 743 filed Nov. 18 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Patent Application 61 415 623 entitled Data Integration and Analysis filed Nov. 19 2010. The entirety of each of these application is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Data is stored at a variety of locations and in a variety of forms. Data can be commercially relevant when it can be used to answer commercial questions e.g. how is a product or product line performing in the market vs. its competitors to what extent is a product or product line being adopted by a particular market segment etc. . In turn insight into these and other commercial questions can help one make business decisions intelligently.

A method disclosed herein includes a computerized method for performing the steps of identifying a universal data set enumerating a population of consumers within a geographic area identifying a plurality of ancillary data sources that each provide ancillary data describing commercial behavior of a corresponding subset of consumers at the respective ancillary data source partitioning the geographic area into a plurality of sectors enumerating the plurality of sectors identifying a sample of the plurality of sectors extracting data from each of the ancillary data sources in an order consistent with an enumerated order of the cells until meeting data thresholds corresponding to each of the respective ancillary data sources and combining the extracted data with panel data from a panel data source.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. The ancillary data includes point of sale data. The ancillary data includes shipping data. The ancillary data includes media delivery data. The ancillary data includes credit card data. The ancillary data includes clickstream data. Enumerating the plurality of sectors includes identifying coordinates corresponding to each sector and interleaving digits of the coordinates thereby producing an integer.

In general in another aspect identifying a data set including characteristics of a population of consumers within a geographic area partitioned into sectors ancillary data from at least two sources describing on a sector by sector basis consumer behaviors within the geographic area wherein one of the sources is a panel data source identifying a first propensity of consumers in a first sector to engage in a specified behavior with a first data source by computing a ratio of a number consumers in the first sector who engage in the specified behavior to a total number of consumers in the first sector identifying a modeled second propensity of consumers in the first sector to engage in the specified behavior with a second data source wherein the data set does not include data sufficient to compute an actual second propensity corresponding to the modeled second propensity using the first propensity and the modeled second propensity identifying third and forth modeled propensities of consumers in a second sector to engage in the specified behavior with respectively the first and second data sources wherein the data set does not include data sufficient to compute actual third and forth propensities corresponding to the modeled third and fourth propensities.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. Identifying the modeled second propensity includes setting the second propensity equal to the first propensity. Identifying the modeled second propensity includes employing a shrinkage estimator. Identifying the modeled second propensity includes using an elasticity model describing propensity variation across data sources. Identifying the modeled second propensity includes using regression imputation projection or similarity based techniques. The specified behavior includes buying a particular brand of goods or services. The specified behavior includes consume media from a particular media outlet. The specified behavior includes a purchasing a specified collection of goods or services. The specified behavior includes purchasing at least a specified dollar amount worth of goods or services. The specified behavior includes shopping at a particular store. The specified behavior includes buying goods or services at a discount. Identifying the modeled third and fourth propensity includes regression imputation projection or similarity based techniques. Identifying the modeled third and fourth propensity scores includes verifying that the scores total to a known value.

In another aspect there is disclosed herein a computer program product embodied in a non transitory computer readable medium that when executing on one or more computing devices performs the steps of receiving a universal data set comprising geographic data for a plurality of customers within a geographic area the universal data set having an order and the universal data set aggregated at a household level importing consumer panel data according to the order of the universal data set the consumer panel data including a number of customer reported transactions for a first subset of the plurality of customers and the consumer panel data aggregated at an individual customer level importing retailer data according to the order of the universal data set until a pre determined threshold of a retailer for obtaining the retailer data from the retailer is achieved the retailer data including customer data from the retailer for a second subset of the plurality of customers wherein the second subset overlaps the first subset and the retailer data aggregated at a retailer provided level and combining the consumer panel data and the retailer data according to the order of the universal data set at a normalized level of aggregation thereby providing data set representative of the first subset of the plurality of customers and the second subset of the plurality of customers.

Each data set at least partially describes commercially relevant information about a population of consumers. Commercial relevance is a subjective characteristic. For example a manufacturer of lawn mowers may not consider the average number of museum visits of a particular consumer to be commercially relevant piece of data. However a magazine publisher who specifically targets museum goers as potential subscribers may consider the same data to be highly commercially relevant. In general if a particular piece of data can be used to bear on commercial issues e.g. whether to develop one product vs. another whether to advertise a product in a particular way or to a particular target audience whether to expand retail operations into a particular geographic region or to exit a particular region etc. of a particular entity then it is commercially relevant to that entity. Conversely if a particular piece of data does not bear on any commercial issue of a particular entity then it is not commercially relevant to that entity. In what follows the adjective commercially relevant will be assumed to apply to all data sets unless otherwise specified.

The commercially relevant information in the data sets can include information about consumer behaviors characteristics or attitudes.

A consumer behavior is any commercially relevant action that a consumer takes. For example purchasing a particular product or combination of products shopping at a particular store shopping with a particular frequency spending a particular amount of money consuming media through a particular outlet e.g. a particular television station radio station online media source etc. and visiting particular websites are all examples of consumer behaviors. Many other examples are possible.

A consumer characteristic is information about a consumer or group of consumers . For example a consumer s age gender location information including physical locations such as address zip code census block city state etc. and network locations such as an IP address profession income shopping options shopping location etc. are all examples of consumer characteristics. An e mail address MAC address or other computer based characteristics are included in this term. Other characteristics are possible.

A consumer attitude is a belief or disposition that the consumer has on an issue. For example consumer attitudes may be reflected by political affiliations family values lifestyle choices etc. Often consumer attitudes are determined via a survey in which one or more questionnaires are presented to consumers to directly establish consumer attitudes. Other consumer attitudes may be inferred by consumer behavior. For example one may infer that a particular consumer is vegetarian if that consumer purchases no meat at grocery stores or restaurants. Similarly one may infer certain consumer attitudes based on the consumer s membership in particular organizations contributions to particular charities etc.

The data sets described above are often structured as a database or equivalent structure. That is the data sets often have or are capable of having a hierarchical structure in which several different pieces of data are associated with a particular consumer or group of consumers. Thus e.g. a single record may be associated with the characteristics behavior or attitudes of a single consumer or group of consumers. In what follows reference will be made to various database concepts e.g. data in a certain record or field categories or dimensions of data etc. . However this database type language is employed for convenience and the data sets need not bear an explicit database structure.

In it will be assumed that a universal data set is available. The universal data set contains characteristic information on a relatively large number of consumers throughout a geographic area. In some implementations the characteristic information includes location information e.g. address zip code etc. of the consumers. In some implementations the characteristic information includes one or more of the characteristics listed in Appendix A.

In addition to the universal data set one or more ancillary data sets are also available. Each ancillary data set includes but is not limited to information on consumer behaviors as well as some degree of consumer characteristic information. The consumer characteristic information in the ancillary data sets need not be represented the same level of specificity or granularity as the consumer characteristic information in the universal data set in order to engage in meaningful analysis as described below. For example if a consumer s location is described as an address in the universal data set it is permissible to merely describe the consumer s zip code in an ancillary data set . Similarly if the universal data set describes only households it is permissible for an ancillary data set to describe a particular individual s i.e. a household member s consumer behavior.

The ancillary data sets often come from the internal business records of market participants . For example retail stores often keep records on each transaction made at the store describing what item or items were purchased what price was paid for each item where the item or items were purchased i.e. which of possibly several stores etc. Moreover many retail stores have frequent shopper or loyalty cards that allow the retailer to track the transaction details of individual consumers. Alternatively or additionally credit card or debit card information can be used to track transactions. Various other sources of ancillary data exists such as shipping or receiving records manufacturing records usage records of a particular resource traffic records including both physical traffic as measured by e.g. a counter at an entrance at a retail store or network traffic as measured from clickstream data reported e.g. by a router or web server that provides content to a consumer etc.

Market participants often sell this data after removing sensitive information of its consumers such as full credit card numbers etc to third parties. However some market participants only release a relatively small proportion typically on the order of 5 or 10 of the total data. Moreover market participants will often allow the third party to request specific transactions e.g. transactions from a particular geography transactions involving a certain dollar amount etc. subject to the limit on the total data to be released. Some market participants will not sell even a small portion of their data to third parties.

In general ancillary data sets from different market participants may but need not overlap. In this possibility is illustrated by the vertical placement of the data sets. Specifically data sets that overlap on a common horizontal line are intended to describe consumer behaviors of the same consumer or aggregated group of consumers at the respective market participants. Thus in the illustrative data of at least some shoppers at MegaMart also shop at Texas Grocers because the line runs through both data sets. Conversely the data reveals no consumer who shops at both Texas Grocers and California Farmers Market because there is no horizontal line between these data sets. Furthermore note that both Texas Grocers and California Farmers Market have relatively little data compared to the universal data set . Thus if the universal data set describes consumer characteristics throughout the United States the data for Texas Grocers and California Farmers Market is consistent with those stores doing business only in Texas and California respectively.

Furthermore the highly fractured nature of the sample panel data is consistent with data gathered by a survey in which only select individuals or groups of individuals were asked to participate or otherwise completed the survey. This is in contrast to the data of MegaMart and SecretCo. Almost all consumers in the universal data sample engage in some consumer behavior at MegaMart and SecretCo.

Directly analyzing the entire amount of available data is often challenging or unfeasible. One challenge is that the data sets from different sources are often structured or formatted differently. For example different market participants may report consumer characteristics at different levels of granularity. Moreover even if each data set were structured exactly the same the sheer volume of the data can present challenges. For example a universal data set may describe as many as 116 million households such as a list of all or substantially all the people or households in a large geographic area such as the United States. Here the word substantially is used to acknowledge the fact that some people or households in principle may be unintentionally omitted from such a list due to limitations in data gathering techniques. Further still market participants often regard their data sets as proprietary and consequently will not make the entire data set available to third parties.

Process begins by identifying a universal data set and ancillary data sources step . The universal data set describes characteristics of a population of consumers. Each ancillary source is a source of an ancillary data set that describes at least one or more consumer behaviors. In some implementations the ancillary data sources are market participants and the consumer behaviors include behaviors at that particular market participant. At least two ancillary data sources are identified in step . In principle there is no upper limit on the number of data sources that may be identified.

In step the population of consumers of the universal data set is partitioned into non overlapping sectors according to a partitioning criterion. The partitioning criterion may include any shared characteristic of the consumers. For example partitioning may performed by geographic area last name telephone number etc. In the case of geographic areas for example one may partition the geographic area into households streets zip codes census blocks towns states etc. One may also partition the geographic area into irregular units according to an ad hoc partitioning scheme. In the case of last name the population can be partitioned by providing alphabetical ranges e.g. one partition may consist of consumers whose last name begins with the letter A another partition may consist of consumers whose last name begins with the letter B etc. Other partitioning criteria are possible. The partitioning criterion need not involve a single parameter or dimension such as first letter of last name etc. but rather can involve two or more parameters or dimensions.

Partitioning the consumer population according to a criterion may have statistical consequences in the resulting data sample. For example when partitioning by the first letter of the consumers last name it may happen that consumers with a particular ethnic background are over represented or under represented in partitions that begin with certain letters e.g. consumers of Russian ethnicity may be under represented in the partition of last names beginning with H because the letter H is rarely used as an initial letter in Russian to English transliteration. In some implementations the choice of a partitioning criterion may involve the subjective judgment of one or more people responsible for partitioning.

In some implementations a partitioning criterion that is relatively stable selected. A criterion is stable if it is unlikely to change for a particular consumer. For example a consumer s last name is relatively stable insofar as men s last names typically do not change and women s last names typically only change after a marriage which typically occurs only a relatively few number of times in a woman s life. By contrast a consumer s annual income is less stable insofar as a consumer s annual income often changes if only slightly every year.

In step the sectors are enumerated. Any enumeration of sectors is permissible. In some implementations the sectors are enumerated by a random assignment of numbers to sectors. For multi dimensional partitioning criteria or criteria that involve several parameters in some implementations the sectors can be enumerated by first enumerating the individual dimensions or parameters and then interleaving the parameters to produce a one dimensional list. For example in some implementations in which the partitioning criterion involves a geographic location two dimensional coordinates e.g. latitude longitude or other coordinate system can be assigned to each sector and then the digits of the coordinates can be interleaved. The assignment of coordinates can be performed in any manner e.g. associating a sector with its geometric center centroid barycenter an extremal point or some other preferred point in the sector. For example if the coordinates of a sector are abc ABC where each of a b c A B and C are digits of the respective coordinates then that sector can be enumerated as the number aAbBcC obtained by interleaving the coordinates. In some implementations the coordinates are expressed in binary.

Once the sectors are enumerated a subset of sectors is identified step . The subset may be identified by any method. For example a subset can be identified by a statistical sampling scheme such as by selecting sectors according to a probability distribution. Similarly a subset may be identified by systematic sampling i.e. selecting sectors at fixed regular intervals e.g. including every thousandth sector in the sample etc. The subset need not be a proper subset i.e. the subset can include the entire list of sectors. In general the manner in which the subset of sectors are identified may be decided in light of statistical logistic or other consequences and therefore may involve the subjective judgment of one or more people responsible for performing the sampling. In some implementations the subset of sectors is chosen to be contained within sectors for which pre determined data is available. For example the subset of sectors can be chosen to be contained within sectors for which panel participants are present.

Once the sample of sectors is determined data is imported from the data sources step . As mentioned above some data sources will only release a certain proportion i.e. 5 or 10 of their available data. Some data sources will allow this proportion of data to be selected according to customer specified preferences. In this case in some implementations the data is imported on a sector by sector basis in the sectors enumerated order until source imposed threshold e.g. 5 or 10 is met.

In some implementations one may have external knowledge e.g. knowledge from a source other than an ancillary data source that particular data is not available from a particular source in a particular sector. For example in some implementations in which the sectors are geographic sectors one may have external knowledge that a particular retailer does not do business outside of California. Consequently no data will be available from that retailer in sectors that lie outside of California. In some implementations the externally known data may be used to augment the data sample. Thus in some implementations sectors for which external data is available may be omitted in step described above. This may provide an advantage since externally obtained data does not count towards the total of data released directly by the data source.

In step one or more key dimensions are identified. A key dimension is a type of data that is common among two or more data sets. For example if two data sets describe consumers addresses and purchases at two stores then address is a key dimension.

Identifying a key dimension may require supplementing one or more data sets. For example if one data set includes the location of a consumer and another data set includes the consumer s IP address then apparently there is no available key dimension. However one may associate an IP address with a location using geolocation techniques. Thus one may supplement the IP address data with location data to identify location as a key dimension.

Similarly two data sets may include the same type of information at different levels of specificity or granularity. For example one data set may describe consumers locations as an address while another data set may describe consumers location as a zip code. When this occurs one may select the zip code as a key dimension but aggregate the locations in the first data set from the address level to the zip code level.

In any case the data is aggregated and or supplemented if necessary so that it reflects consumer behaviors characteristics or attitudes on a sector by sector basis step .

After supplementing and or aggregating the data sets if necessary the data sets may optionally be combined along the key dimension s into a single data set step . For example the combination may be but need not be implemented using the traditional join operation on databases. Another implementation may be to simply include pointers from one data set to the others indicating the appropriate relationships amongst the data. Other implementations are possible.

Having data simultaneously available from numerous data sources for a particular geographic sector allows certain types of inferences to be made. Consider for example the geographic sector corresponding to the line in in which data is available from both MegaMart and Texas Grocers. If the data from Texas Grocers indicates that a particular consumer has a loyalty card but MegaMart s data does not reveal a corresponding loyalty card then it can be inferred that the consumer does not shop at MegaMart. Such an inference rests on the assumption that those who regularly shop at a store hold a loyalty card at that store. 

Similarly if the data from Texas Grocers indicates that a particular consumer has a loyalty card and MegaMart s data also reveals a loyalty card belonging to the same shopper then the extent to which Texas Grocers and MegaMart provide competing or complementary behavior can be assessed. For example the data could reveal that the chains could fully overlap i.e. similar consumer behavior in both chains or large trips made to Texas Grocers and small trips made to MegaMart or food bought at Texas Grocers and health and beauty aids bought at MegaMart among many potential possible behaviors.

If this behavior were assessed with two random 10 samples from each of MegaMart and Texas Grocers the sample overlap would typically be 1 of the total sampled data. Using the techniques described herein however the overlap will be much higher in theory 100 if everyone had cards from both retailers and the keying information was completely accurate.

Note that this inference could not accurately be made if the data sets did not overlap or were not known to overlap on that sector. That is if a loyalty card for a particular consumer is not included in a particular data set from a retailer then all one can infer is either that the consumer does not shop at the retailer or that the consumer is not included in the sampled data. But in the case of nested data sets if a consumer behavior is described in any single data set or if the consumer is described in the universal data set the consumer s absence in other data sets contains information that the consumer actually did not engage in behavior described by the other data sets not merely that the other data sets are silent as to the consumer s behavior.

More generally several other negative inferences can be made from different data sets that overlap on a sector. A negative inference is an inference that a consumer does not engage in a particular behavior based on a observing a lack of evidence for the particular behavior and b observing evidence to support the inference that if the consumer had engaged in the particular behavior there would be evidence of it. In nested data sets condition b is satisfied when data sets overlap on a particular sector.

In addition to enhancing the opportunity to make negative inferences the structure of the data sample produced by process has other desirable properties. For example the data sample is easily updatable in the event two or more data sources merge. For example if MegaMart merges with Texas Grocers to form a new retailer called BrandNewMart then creating a data sample for BrandNewMart can be accomplished by combining the MegaMart Texas Grocers data in relatively straightforward ways e.g. by adding numerical data such as sale volume amount etc. or by aggregating and eliminating redundant non numerical data such as loyalty card data. In particular because the data sample is nested no additional work need be done to account for the possibility that the MegaMart data is potentially based on a different sample than the Texas Grocer data.

Similarly the data sample of process is amenable to changing degrees of aggregation. For example retailers typically have their own privacy policies through which personally identifying information is removed from data before it is provided to third parties. One common technique for removing personally identifying information is to aggregate information on a geographic or other basis. If a retailer modifies their privacy policy resulting in a change to the level of aggregation of reported data the then the corresponding sectors of the data sample can be similarly aggregated resulting in the continued usefulness of the data sample.

For example one class of questions involves ascertaining predicting or otherwise modeling the propensity that a consumer or group of consumers will behave in a certain way. For example one might want to know the propensity of a group of consumers to buy one brand of detergent vs. another brand or the propensity to buy a high end version of a product vs. a low end version or the propensity to buy a given product at all or the propensity to spend at least a certain amount of money buying a certain type of product or products. Generally one may inquire about consumers propensity to engage in virtually any measurable behavior which may be quantified as a propensity score or the like indicative of a tendency of a consumer or group of consumers to engage in a specific behavior.

Given the data set derived from process there will often be some consumers for whom a desired propensity can be directly calculated from available data. For example if point of sale POS data is available from MegaMart for particular geographic sector then questions such as those above can be directly calculated using traditional techniques at least as those propensities relate to MegaMart behaviors. E.g. one may calculate the propensity of a consumer to engage in a particular behavior at MegaMart. 

Similarly if other data sources are available for the same sector then propensity scores can be refined by the additional data. This can occur according to several mechanisms. In one instance merely having more data often results as a general statistical matter in increased accuracy in any conclusions made from the data.

Additionally with sufficient data one may make inferences by process of elimination or other exclusionary inferences. For example suppose a particular geographic sector has exactly three stores that sell a certain product. If one has point of sale data from two of the stores and one knows the total amount of money spent on that product then one may infer the amount of money spent on the product in that sector by subtracting the known amounts from the total.

In step propensity scores are directly computed for those cells for which data is available. A cell is the data in a particular ancillary data set for a particular sector. When data is available a general formula for computing a propensity score is to compute ratio of consumers in the cell who exhibit the behavior to the total number of consumers in the cell. Other ratios can be computed that yield scores that provide equivalent information i.e. the ratio of consumers who exhibit a particular behavior to the consumers who do not exhibit the behavior. Similarly these or other ratios may be scaled i.e. linearly scaled logarithmically scaled geometrically scaled exponentially scaled etc. and still provide the same information.

In general there will be cells for which data is unavailable from any ancillary data source. For example in no data is available from SecretCo illustrating the scenario in which SecretCo does not release any of its data. For these cells a modeled propensity score can be determined in a variety of ways. One simple way is to set the modeled propensity score equal to a computed propensity score from another cell for which data is available. Similarly a modeled propensity score can be determined as a combination e.g. average weighted average etc. of computed propensity scores. More sophisticated techniques such as regression models gravity models projection techniques etc. may be used. Moreover in these or other techniques the availability of making negative inferences is enhanced by the nested configuration of the data sample.

In step propensity scores are propagated from cells in which scores were calculated to cells for which no data was available using these techniques. Thus after step all the cells in a particular sector contain propensity information either directly calculated from other data from the cell or modeled based on other propensity scores.

In step the propensity data in the sector can be refined. Such refinements can implement global aspects of modeling that were not or cannot be implemented in the cell by cell modeling. For example stability enhancing techniques can be applied to the data in step . Stability enhancing techniques include applying a hierarchical weighting scheme a shrinkage estimator e.g. inverse Bayesian shrinkage or the like. The specific stability enhancing techniques are applied and or tuned on a case by case basis depending on the particular data sets involved.

In step a data set is identified along with those sectors for which propensity data is available. In step the propensity data is propagated to those sectors for which no propensity data is available using traditional mathematical modeling techniques e.g. regression similarity projection gravity models etc. 

The processes and are illustrative of a larger class of analyses. That is starting with the data sample produced by process some analytic item of interest e.g. propensity scores can be computed for some cells and then modeled for those cells for which no data is available. This general approach can be followed to compute model or otherwise gain insight into virtually any analytic question about consumer behaviors including shared wallet estimation market segmentation etc. However following such an approach using a more nested data sample vs. a less nested sample allows for a greater number or higher quality of negative inferences to be made during some or all of the modeling ultimately leading to enhanced accuracy.

The data integration engine is operable to identify various ancillary data sources from the various market participants and integrate them. For example the integration may include performing process thus producing a data sample. The data store is operable to store data needed by the data integration system. For example the data store may store the data sample produced by the data integration system. The data analysis engine is operable to perform various analyses on the data in the data store such as the analyses of processes and among others.

The front end is operable to interface with one or more users and to allow the users to conveniently interact with the data integration system . Through the front end the users may cause the system to perform various analyses view or manipulate the data sample or export data or analytic results to external systems.

In some implementations each user is associated with a user profile. The user profile includes information such as a user name password permissions etc. In some implementations the user profile is stored in the data store . In some implementations the front end presents options to the user based on the user s permissions or other information in the user s profile. For example some users have read only permissions for certain data in which case the front end will suppress functionality that involves writing to that data. Similarly to maintain confidentiality read permissions associated with individual market participants may be assigned to different users.

As shown in step the process may begin with receiving a universal data set comprising geographic data for a plurality of customers within a geographic area the universal data set having an order and the universal data set aggregated at a household level. This may for example include phone book type data for a geographic area organized according to residential address or any other similar data set from any commercial or non commercial source. The data may be received e.g. by downloading data from an online commercial provider or otherwise creating a local copy of the data in the data set from a disk or other computerized or written sources in any suitable manner.

As shown in step the process may include importing consumer panel data according to the order of the universal data set. This may for example be obtained from an online commercial source acquires and sells data concerning individual consumer purchasing behavior or the like. The consumer panel data may include a number of customer reported transactions for a first subset of the plurality of customers and the consumer panel data may be aggregated at an individual customer level. This may for example include data concerning individual consumer behavior gathered by a commercial service based upon voluntary consumer participation or any other data that similarly represents purchasing activity on an individual consumer basis.

As shown in step the process may include importing retailer data according to the order of the universal data set. In general the retailer data may include customer data from a retailer for a second subset of the plurality of customers that overlaps the first subset of customers from the consumer panel data set. The retailer data may for example be aggregated at any retailer provided level such as a store customer household credit card or other level. This may include any data that is gathered by a retailer in the course of doing business. By way of example and not limitation the retailer data may include point of sale data for stores operated by the retailer. The retailer data may include clickstream data obtained from online purchases. This may include shipping data for products shipped by the retailer to individual customers or the like. This may also or instead include media delivery data such as where a retailer sells media including movies music games software and so forth either online or in stores or some combination of these. This may also or instead include credit card data relating to any all credit card purchases made with the retailer. More generally any data from the retailer relating to actual purchases made by specific customers may be included in the retailer data as that term is used herein. The retailer data may be imported until a pre determined threshold of a retailer for obtaining the retailer data from the retailer is achieved such as an explicit limit on the quantity of data that the retailer is willing to provide.

As shown in step the method may include combining the consumer panel data and the retailer data according to the order of the universal data set at a normalized level of aggregation thereby providing a data set representative of the first subset of the plurality of customers and the second subset of the plurality of customers. This operation is described in greater detail above and when so combined provides a basis for drawing inferences about characteristics and behavior of the more general population in the universal data set for a geographic area.

As shown in step with the data combined in this manner consumer propensities may be modeled for customers in the universal data set according to the data set representative of the first subset of the plurality of customers and the second subset of the plurality of customers. This may include consumer propensities for any specific behavior for consumers. By way of example and not limitation this may include a propensity for buying a particular brand of goods or services or a propensity for purchasing a specified collection of goods or services. This may also or instead include a propensity for spending a certain dollar amount worth of goods or services such as at least one hundred dollars or not more than twenty dollars. This may also include for media purchases a propensity for consuming media from a particular media outlet or of a particular format or type. This may also or instead include a propensity for shopping at a particular retailer or at a particular store. Other propensities may similarly be measure such as a propensity for buying goods or services at a discount or a tendency to respond or not respond to any other types of promotions coupon sources and so forth.

The above systems devices methods processes and the like may be realized in hardware software or any combination of these suitable for the control data acquisition and data processing described herein. This includes realization in one or more microprocessors microcontrollers embedded microcontrollers programmable digital signal processors or other programmable devices or processing circuitry along with internal and or external memory. This may also or instead include one or more application specific integrated circuits programmable gate arrays programmable array logic components or any other device or devices that may be configured to process electronic signals. It will further be appreciated that a realization of the processes or devices described above may include computer executable code created using a structured programming language such as C an object oriented programming language such as C or any other high level or low level programming language including assembly languages hardware description languages and database programming languages and technologies that may be stored compiled or interpreted to run on one of the above devices as well as heterogeneous combinations of processors processor architectures or combinations of different hardware and software. At the same time processing may be distributed across devices such as the various systems described above or all of the functionality may be integrated into a dedicated standalone device. All such permutations and combinations are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments disclosed herein are computer program products comprising computer executable code or computer usable code that when executing on one or more computing devices such as the devices systems described above performs any and or all of the steps described above. The code may be stored in a non transitory computer readable medium such as a computer memory which may be a memory from which the program executes such as random access memory associated with a processor or a storage device such as a disk drive flash memory or any other optical electromagnetic magnetic infrared or other device or combination of devices. In another aspect any of the processes described above may be embodied in any suitable transmission or propagation medium carrying the computer executable code described above and or any inputs or outputs from same.

It will be appreciated that the methods and systems described above are set forth by way of example and not of limitation. Numerous variations additions omissions and other modifications will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. In addition the order or presentation of method steps in the description and drawings above is not intended to require this order of performing the recited steps unless a particular order is expressly required or otherwise clear from the context.

The meanings of method steps of the invention s described herein are intended to include any suitable method of causing one or more other parties or entities to perform the steps consistent with the patentability of the following claims unless a different meaning is expressly provided or otherwise clear from the context. Such parties or entities need not be under the direction or control of any other party or entity and need not be located within a particular jurisdiction.

Thus for example a description or recitation of adding a first number to a second number includes causing one or more parties or entities to add the two numbers together. For example if person X engages in an arm s length transaction with person Y to add the two numbers and person Y indeed adds the two numbers then both persons X and Y perform the step as recited person Y by virtue of the fact that he actually added the numbers and person X by virtue of the fact that he caused person Y to add the numbers. Furthermore if person X is located within the United States and person Y is located outside the United States then the method is performed in the United States by virtue of person X s participation in causing the step to be performed.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the following claims. The claims that follow are intended to include all such variations and modifications that might fall within their scope and should be interpreted in the broadest sense allowable by law.

