---

title: System and method for securely managing data stored on mobile devices, such as enterprise mobility data
abstract: A system and method for managing data stored on mobile devices is described. In some cases, the system stores data, such as data under enterprise mobility management, within a secured memory location of a SIM card. In some cases, the system may request validation credentials before providing access to data stored in secure locations. In some cases, the system may review an access policy and request validation based on instructions from the access policy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08494486&OS=08494486&RS=08494486
owner: Nuance Communications, Inc.
number: 08494486
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120224
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 031 680 filed Feb. 14 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 126 506 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SECURELY MANAGING DATA STORED ON MOBILE DEVICES SUCH AS ENTERPRISE MOBILITY DATA which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 889 917 filed on Feb. 14 2007 entitled ENTERPRISE MOBILITY MANAGEMENT SUCH AS MANAGEMENT OF DATA USING SIM CARDS each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Enterprise mobility management EMM entails managing mobile device technology provisioned by employers to their employees. Often employers use EMM software installed mobile devices to manage the productivity of their employees the security of provisioned devices and or the tracking of data with respect to compliance issues. For example an employee s device may include tracking software that monitors data flows in and out of the device in order to prevent the loss or misuse of proprietary and confidential information that may be stored within the device.

However as the processing capabilities and storage capacities of mobile devices increase so do the risks involved in providing these increasingly powerful devices to users in unsecured environments. Many employees are using mobile devices to create edit store and otherwise access important sensitive or proprietary business information across many different applications such as VPNs email systems sales programs and so on that have specific support and configuration requirements that may vary from one device to another. Because of the complexity of systems running on these devices and the variance between devices current EMM systems may be unable to meet the tracking and security needs of these businesses.

For example a sales representative may use several different applications running on his her mobile device to generate proprietary and sensitive sales data for clients. If the sales representative were to misplace or lose the device a competitor could gain access to some or all of the sensitive data.

Therefore the need exists for a system that overcomes the above problems as well as one that provides additional benefits. Overall the examples herein of some prior or related systems and their associated limitations are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of existing or prior systems will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading the following Detailed Description.

A method and system for securely managing and storing data on mobile devices such as managing enterprise mobility data and applications using removable large memory SIM cards or other smart cards is described. In some examples the system employs a scriptable management application stored within a SIM card of a mobile device to securely store and manage data software applications device configurations application configurations and so on. The management application may execute within the SIM card using a SIM based processor and may be loaded onto a mobile device via the SIM card.

In some examples the system can implement enterprise mobility management for mobile devices that do not contain such EMM capabilities. For example insertion of a SIM card containing the system launches a management application that determines properties of the device and configures the device based on the properties and based on desired security settings.

The system may validate users requesting access to secure mobile device data and other assets via a configurable dynamic access policy. For example the system may assign different data under different levels of security or may assign an access policy dependent on a determined location of the mobile device or on the timing of the user request for secured data.

In some examples the system dynamically determines a level of security to be applied to storage locations for email and other information received by or sent from a mobile device. For example a user may receive an email at his her mobile device from a client and the system may automatically review characteristics of the email such as metadata associated with the email the content of the email and so on determine a security level for the email and store the email in a storage location associated with the security level.

In addition to enterprise management the system may provide the management services and capabilities discussed herein to wireless carriers third party vendors employers businesses and other entities that seek to provide create establish and or implement a secure storage and processing environment on a mobile device. For example the system may be used by consumers to protect private or personal data such as social security numbers personal contacts and so on . The system may facilitate users to perform secure consumer transactions on cell phones such as secure online mobile banking transactions online bill pay online purchases and so on.

The system will now be described with respect to various embodiments. The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding of and enabling description for these embodiments of the system. However one skilled in the art will understand that the system may be practiced without these details. In other instances well known structures and functions have not been shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description of the embodiments of the system.

It is intended that the terminology used in the description presented below be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific embodiments of the system. Certain terms may even be emphasized below however any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section.

The mobile device also includes a subscriber identity module SIM such as a SIM having a memory component and capable of storing scripts applications and other processes that assist the mobile device in providing enterprise mobility management secure storage of assets and other EMM services to users. The system may run and store scripts and other application within the SIM card a Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC or any removable secure microprocessor having associated memory. These and similar devices are interchangeable with respect to aspects of the technology and the term SIM is simply used for convenience herein. In general the system may store any and all components modules or data files required or used in providing services to users of the mobile devices.

The SIM or other removable memory card and device may act as a computer on a chip. They may contain a processor for executing scripts and files a memory for storing scripts and files and an operating system. Also called High Capacity SIMs MegaSIMs High Density HD SIMs and SuperSIMs they may have storage capabilities of 4 MB to 1 GB or more and may enable 16 bit or 32 bit processors. The system described herein may be implemented in some or all of the SIMs listed above.

Aspects of the system can be embodied in a special purpose computing device or data processor that is specifically programmed configured or constructed to perform one or more of the computer executable instructions explained in detail herein. Aspects of the system may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks or modules are performed by remote processing devices which are linked through a communications network such as a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Aspects of the system may be stored or distributed on computer readable media including magnetically or optically readable computer discs hard wired or preprogrammed chips e.g. EEPROM semiconductor chips nanotechnology memory biological memory or other data storage media. Indeed computer implemented instructions data structures screen displays and other data under aspects of the system may be distributed over the Internet or over other networks including wireless networks on a propagated signal on a propagation medium e.g. an electromagnetic wave s a sound wave etc. over a period of time or they may be provided on any analog or digital network packet switched circuit switched or other scheme . Those skilled in the relevant art will recognize that portions of the system reside on a server computer while corresponding portions reside on a client computer such as a mobile or portable device and thus while certain hardware platforms are described herein aspects of the system are equally applicable to nodes on a network. In an alternative embodiment the mobile device or portable device may represent the server portion while the server may represent the client portion.

The mobile device and or SIM may provide services that include executable software software configurations hardware configurations and controls and handset operating system interfaces. As disclosed herein executable software may include without limitation any software program stored on the mobile device or associated memory device both permanently and temporarily connected via hardware or wireless connectivity. For example the SIM may include an authentication system a mobile device interface a report system a script interface a script platform data and scripts.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an example architecture for a SIM based system where many components are stored and executed outside of a mobile device operating system is shown. The mobile device s operating system OS includes components such as an event manager and a command interface such as a self service interface . The system stores a script engine for executing scripts a script parser for reviewing and determining what scripts to execute a UI manager for managing the user interface processes within the SIM and an XML parser within and for execution by an operating system of a UICC such as a SIM integrated into or carried by a mobile device . The SIM OS may contain some or all of these components in some cases these components may be components used by the system in performing the call intercept methods described herein . The SIM OS may also contain a SIM USIM memory and a MMC memory . The system may use the memory to store application files data files resources and so on such as .sjs javascript specific files and .xml files . The system may use memory to store multimedia application files such as the .swf files shown within the memory .

The event manager calls preconfigured functions such as callback functions when appropriate event triggers are encountered. Some examples of event triggers include but are not limited to a mobile device entering or returning from a power savings mode a device data or power cable being connected or disconnected the user pressing a specific button specific buttons or a button sequence the display being modified the user initiating or receiving a phone call on the device the device receiving or sending a message such as an SMS Short Messaging Service MMS Multimedia Messaging Service or IM Instant Messaging message a portion of ME memory storage being modified such as a database entry being created changed or removed such as a new contact being added a file matching a predetermined name and or directory location being created modified or deleted a network malfunction being encountered and so on.

The self service interface enables a script engine and or a UI manager located within a SIM OS to issue run time commands across a MESIM interface to ME OS components such as the display engine and the event manager . For example the script engine may call the self service interface to register a new callback function provided by a resource script file in order for the callback function to be triggered when a specific event occurs such as when the user requests a call be made to the cellular service provider s customer support center.

Additionally the ME OS or a combination of both the ME OS and the SIM OS may contain a client specific device abstraction layer DAL that enables scripts to be installed to the device independent on the type of device or type of operating system employed by the device. The DAL functions by allowing applications to access data stored in persistent storage such as data stored in the SIM . For example the DAL may include a class of data access methods for the ME OS which directly reference a set of procedures used to store data within the SIM . Thus via the DAL the ME OS is able to access data from the SIM using simple techniques such as via APIs.

For example in order to facilitate calls between the self service interface and the UI manager over the ME SIM interface the DAL may be located in both the self service interface and the UI manager . The DAL contains all operating system specific code in one place for such calls which allows porting of a client to the device operating system to be simpler and faster The alternative would be operating system code strewn throughout many files . The DAL includes an API. The system may implement the DAL API onto the operating system in order to run a client such as the self service interface on the operating system but does not need to perform any other changes to OS code. A client may also need to be compiled into the machine language of the device but there is no need for operating system specific calls and thus does not require any code changes . Thus in some examples of the system the DAL enables many functions typically performed between components within a device OS to be performed between the device OS and a SIM OS.

Components stored within the mobile device OS such as the event manager the self service interface and or a display engine e.g. a FLASH lite engine a hyper text browser a music or video player or other multimedia application interact with the SIM OS components to perform the processes and applications described herein. Examples of these processes and applications include call intercept methods diagnostic methods configuration methods presentation methods display methods and so on. They may interact or communicate via smart card or processor card channels such as APDU Application Protocol Data Units but may alternately use other external processor card communications channels such as SIM Toolkit APIs or alternative JavaCard APIs or memory card channels such as multimedia card MMC channel but may alternately use other channels such as those suitable for USB CompactFlash SmartMedia MemoryStick SecureDigital and so on for multimedia presentations sent from the SIM to the mobile device. The interaction between the mobile device and files and applications stored in a UICC such as in the SIM card will now be discussed.

In some examples the system enables storage of scripts data and management applications within the memory of a SIM providing the mobile device OS the ability to send and receive many different commands to and from the SIM OS. The following table illustrates examples of commands used by the system 

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an example of data commands between a mobile device operating system and a removable memory device such as a SIM is shown. As shown in the mobile device OS of the mobile device may contain interface components such as an event manager interface a command interface and or a UI interface which may communicate with a UI rendering engine such as a FLASH or XHTML component and so on. Some or all of the interface components send and or receive data from a removable storage and processing component such as SIM card .

Scripts executing on the SIM card may insert and or delete callback functions or other data structures to and or from the mobile device OS . Additionally upon an occurrence of an event at the mobile device e.g. an indication of a trigger to validate the security of the device the event manager interface calls exposes or publishes APIs such as callback functions to the SIM to alert the SIM of the event such as data that indicates the trigger . In response the SIM may expose APIs that act to instruct the command interface to execute a command and or provide additional information. In turn the command interface may respond to the commands . Additionally the UI server interface may send requests for files pages or other content to be presented for consumption by the UI rendering engine . The SIM may upon approval respond to requests by transmitting files stored in the SIM to the UI interfaces and or rendering component for display to a user via the rendering component . Examples of other types of requests made from the UI interface to the SIM may be an indication that the user presents validation credentials via an entry user interface or via a selection from a menu of items.

As described herein the system facilitates communications between the mobile device OS and the SIM via Application Programming Interfaces APIs . For example APIs in the OS related to an input event received by the mobile device such as a key press are exposed to the SIM by the event manager interface over the APDU channels see event . Upon viewing the exposed API a script engine on the SIM may execute a script and expose an API such as a callback function back to the mobile device OS see command . This may cause the UI server interface to send a request via an API back to the SIM such as an API that requests a specific page or display see request . The SIM may then respond by sending a static display over the APDU channel or a dynamic display over the MMC channel to the UI server interface see response for presentation to a user via a user interface component such as a display on the mobile device.

The storing of applications engines files and so on within a SIM or UICC environment enables the system in some cases to optimize and or simplify the memory and functionality of a mobile device and its required processes. Such architectures may minimize the porting required for full functionality of the device or may optimize mobile device code reuse by utilizing rendering systems already contained within the mobile device. Further the system facilitates a more secure operating architecture because the mobile device only performs consuming events authorized by a user or service provider due to the consumption occurring within the UICC. Security systems located in the SIM provide secure storage and or pre execution authentication. Because content related processes and scripts are contained in a secure SIM environment the system may prevent hackers from taking over or controlling certain functions of a mobile device.

As described above in some examples the system securely stores and or manages data software applications device configurations application configurations and so on with scriptable applications received from or executed by some or all of the SIM devices and other UICC cards described herein. For example the system may store proprietary business data such as business email data within a secured memory component of a SIM card and store other non proprietary data such as user interface configuration settings in other unsecured memory components of the SIM card.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating components of a mobile device including secured SIM memory is shown. The mobile device may contain hardware such as a random access memory RAM component that may execute an EMM application a read only memory ROM component that runs applications within the mobile device operating system a display component a microcontroller and other components discussed herein.

The mobile device may be connected to and communicate with a memory component such as a SIM card. The SIM card may include secure applications and components and non secure applications and components that is applications and components that do not contain an additional level of security beyond the security afforded by the SIM card . The non secure applications and components may include a programmable read only memory PROM a SIM security ROM component a SIM based microcontroller a security microcontroller and so on. The SIM card may be any smart card having a processor and memory. The card may be tamper resistant and may use the card security features and schemes to secure the memory components.

The SIM card also contains memory such as secured memory and unsecured memory . The secured memory may store data and applications deemed to be proprietary or sensitive to outside users. That is users of the mobile device or the EMM system may select data or applications to store or execute from within the secured memory of the SIM device without compromising the data or applications .

The secured memory may also contain a management application that may execute within the secure memory of the SIM card or may load from the SIM card to the RAM of the device to be executed by the device operating system. The management application may cause EMM to be established on the mobile device may update or create access policies may update or create security levels may initiate validation processes may perform remapping of data to secure memory and so on.

As described above the system may determine a location to store certain data and other information based on an assigned security level of the data or other factors. The system can include the various levels of storage using memory of the device and memory of the SIM card. Referring to a block diagram illustrating memory architecture of a mobile device with secured SIM memory is shown. The memory architecture includes memory from different components of the device such as the device memory the SIM memory and optionally a memory card used to expand the storage capabilities of the device. The device may allocate portions of a file system across some or all portions of the memory.

The device memory may include a memory allotment for the device operating system among other things. The SIM memory may include a memory allotment for EMM controlled data and information such as secure memory of a memory allotment for EMM controlled applications such as the management application and uncontrolled memory . Additionally the SIM memory may be further partitioned not shown in order to provide different levels of EMM security or to provide distinct locations for specific types of data or applications.

As described above the system can implement enterprise mobility management and other security management to mobile devices that do not contain such capabilities. For example insertion of a SIM card containing the system launches a management application that determines properties of the device and configures the device based on the properties and based on desired security settings. Additionally once established the system can perform validation processes when required.

Referring to a flow diagram illustrating a routine for establishing and determining the EMM security on a mobile device is shown. In block the system receives an indication or trigger to launch a validation process. In some cases the indication or trigger may be associated with insertion of a SIM card containing the system into an unused mobile device. In some cases the indication or trigger may be associated with insertion of a SIM card containing the system into a previously used device that does not have EMM functionality. In some cases the system may trigger the validation process when the device reboots or powers on and the device includes a SIM card containing the system.

In block a management application stored in the SIM memory loads and executes on a processor stored in the SIM card. In some cases the system may also detect install and or execute the application on the device such as within the RAM of the device. In some cases upon execution the system may detect previous installed EMM applications on the device and use the applications as configuration resources when establishing the EMM environment.

In block the management application performs a validation process such as those described herein. In some cases the system may query a server in communication with the device to determine that the SIM card and device is secure and not lost or stolen for example . In some cases a user may input a password to access data securely stored on the SIM card. For example if the server is busy or otherwise not responsive the system may request security credentials from the user. In some cases the validation process may be determined by a dynamic access policy described in further detail with respect to . The security validation may be in collaboration with security measures performed by the device or by the SIM card.

Additionally the validation process may be re triggered based on a variety of events such as when the device wakes up from a sleep mode when the availability of a network is changed after a certain time period when the mobile device requests to read delete or modify EMM managed data and so on.

The system in decision block determines if the device is secure based on the validation process. If the validation process determines that the device is not secure the system in block may deny or block access to data managed in a secure memory component within the SIM card. In some cases the system may wipe overwrite or delete some or all managed data or other stored data. In some cases the system may lock functionality and or control of the device such as user inputs user interfaces and so on.

If the validation process determines that the device is secure the system in block allows access to the data managed in secure components. That is the system enables a user to retrieve data stored in secured memory such as data stored within memory and memory .

As described above in some cases the system refers to an access policy before implementing a validation process. Referring to a flow diagram illustrating a routine for validating the security of a mobile device based on a dynamic access policy is shown. In block the system receives a trigger to validate the security of the mobile device such as one or more triggers discussed herein. For example the system may determine the device has moved to a different location such as by reviewing identification information associated with a cell tower in communication with the device and trigger the system.

In block the system reviews an access policy to determine a required level of validation such as what validation process to perform. The access policy may be a dynamically changing policy that determines one or more characteristics parameters or locations of the mobile device and associates a validation process according to the determined characteristics parameters or locations. The access policy may define the validation process to be used establish a time interval in which to require validation and or otherwise regulate access to secured data at a certain time for a certain device.

In some cases the system uses the access policy to implement one or more validation processes based upon a review of location and network data associated with the device. The system may review cell tower IDs mobile network codes MNCs mobile country codes MCCs signal strength and other network and location information.

In some cases the system uses the access policy to implement one or more validation processes based upon a review of the mobile device usage. The system may review patterns of usage related to applications such as application under enterprise mobility management. For example the system may determine that data such as an email is set for transmission to an unknown party and request validation credentials before such data is transmitted.

In some cases the system uses the access policy to implement one or more validation processes based upon a time interval between a previous validation and a current use of secured data. For example the system may determine that the time interval exceeds a threshold interval and require validations.

In block the system validates the security of the device using the process determined in block . For example the system may query a server to determine if the mobile device has been compromised may request security credentials from a user of the device and so on.

The following scenarios illustrate aspects of the system in use. Of course the system may be used in other scenarios.

Scenario 1 Remapping of Email A SIM card containing the system is inserted into a device that does not contain EMM software but has been used to receive create and send email messages. After insertion the system modifies the device to remap storage of previously received and or incoming email messages from a local directory such as a directory within the memory of the device to a secure directory such as a directory within the secured memory of the SIM card . Thus the system enables the device to store email messages within a secure memory location without requiring the device to provide such functionality.

Scenario 2 Working at the Office A user sends a confidential message from his mobile device while at the office. The system queries the device to identify the location of the device determines that the device is located within a secure environment the office and does not require the user to provide any credentials. The message is sent.

Scenario 3 Working Outside the Office The same user sends a confidential message from his mobile device while at a client site. The system queries the device to identify the location of the device does not recognize the location and contacts a server to determine if the mobile device has been reported lost or stolen. The server reports back that the mobile device has not been reported lost or stolen. The message is sent.

Scenario 4 Attempting to Access a Lost Device A lost mobile device is found by a competitor of a user of the device and the competitor attempts to access stored emails within the device. The system determines that the device has not been used for one hour and looks to the access policy to identify a validation process to implement. The access policy instructs the system to request validation credentials. The competitor does not have the proper credentials and is denied access.

Scenario 5 Determining Memory in which to Store Information A user receives an email from a sender associated with his company. The system reviews metadata associated with the email determines that the email may contain sensitive information and stores the email within secured memory of the SIM card. The user receives a second email from a friend. The system reviews the metadata associated with the second email does not recognize the email and stores the email within the local unsecured memory of the mobile device. Later the user can retrieve the email from the unsecured memory without the need for validation.

As discussed herein the system securely stores and manages data software applications device configuration and application configurations using a scriptable management application that can be loaded from or directly executed by memory within a SIM card. To do so the system may employ the SIM based security to secure valuable business data and executable applications. In some cases the system deploys and manages a mobile device s Man Machine Interface MMI using an on device scriptable management application. Using the SIM card the system may remotely deploy configuration and management services that can be autonomously executed on the device. Additionally a generic mobile device can be automatically configured to a particular user and business policies such as by using the management application to retrieve and employ employee user mobile subscriber specific configurations and data for a device.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling of connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above detailed description of embodiments of the system is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the system to the precise form disclosed above. While specific embodiments of and examples for the system are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the system as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative embodiments may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times.

While many embodiments described above employ software stored on the mobile device the scripts and other applications noted above may be hard coded into the mobile device e.g. stored in EEPROM PROM etc. . Further the above functionality may be implemented without scripts or other special modules.

The teachings of the system provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments.

All of the above patents and applications and other references including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated by reference. Aspects of the system can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further embodiments of the system.

These and other changes can be made to the system in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description details certain embodiments of the system and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the system can be practiced in many ways. Details of the local based support system may vary considerably in its implementation details while still being encompassed by the system disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the system should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the system with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the system to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the system encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the system under the claims.

While certain aspects of the system are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the system in any number of claim forms. For example while only one aspect of the system is recited as embodied in a computer readable medium other aspects may likewise be embodied in a computer readable medium. Accordingly the inventors reserve the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the system.

