---

title: Techniques for providing access to data in dynamic shared accounts
abstract: Techniques for providing access to data in dynamic shared accounts are disclosed. In one particular exemplary embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a system for providing data in dynamic shared accounts. The system may comprise one or more processors communicatively coupled to a network. The one or more processors may be configured to identify a first user associated with an account, identify a second user to have access to the account associated with the first user in the event the first user is unavailable to access data or perform functions associated with the account, map the second user to the account, and provide the second user access to the account based on the mapping and with access privileges associated with the first user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08931061&OS=08931061&RS=08931061
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 08931061
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120319
---
This patent application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 482 189 filed May 3 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to network monitoring and more particularly to techniques for providing access to data in dynamic shared accounts.

Cloud services are becoming increasingly popular. Software as a Service SaaS is a cloud service and has its own specification of roles and permissions. Application programming interfaces APIs associated with SaaS may not be generic and vary from provider to provider. A setup on one particular SaaS may therefore be different than a setup on another SaaS. In addition when users may migrate from one organizational entity to another or leave an organization entirely data associated with such users may be orphaned and may need to be assigned or reassigned. Assigning or reassigning such data may be challenging especially across multiple disparate SaaS or cloud service platforms.

In view of the foregoing it may be understood that there may be significant problems and shortcomings associated with conventional assignment and access control technologies as applied to SaaS infrastructure.

Techniques for providing access to data in dynamic shared accounts are disclosed. In one particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as a system for providing data in dynamic shared accounts. The system may comprise one or more processors communicatively coupled to a network. The one or more processors may be configured to identify a first user associated with an account identify a second user to have access to the account associated with the first user in the event the first user is unavailable to access data or perform functions associated with the account map the second user to the account and provide the second user access to the account based on the mapping and with access privileges associated with the first user.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the account may be a shared Software as a Service SaaS account.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment mapping the second user to the account may comprises identifying one or more predetermined roles associated with the account for the first user identifying one or more pseudo accounts corresponding to the one or more predetermined roles associating the second user with the one or more predetermined roles associated with the account for the first user and mapping the second user to the one or more pseudo accounts based on the one or more predetermined roles associated with the second user.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment mapping the second user to the one or more pseudo accounts may further comprise a dynamic mapping. In some embodiments the dynamic mapping may allow data associated with the account to be shared with one or more additional users.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the one or more additional users may comprise the first user.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment providing the second user access to the account may comprise authenticating an identifier associated with the second user. In some embodiments providing the second user access to the account may further comprise providing single sign on access to at least the account.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment the identifier may comprise at least one of a user identifier and password.

In another particular embodiment the techniques may be realized as a method for providing data in dynamic shared accounts. The method may comprise identifying a first user associated with an account identifying a second user to have access to the account associated with the first user in the event the first user is unavailable to access data or perform functions associated with the account mapping the second user to the account and providing the second user access to the account based on the mapping and with access privileges associated with the first user.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the account may be a shared Software as a Service SaaS account.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment mapping the second user to the account may comprises identifying one or more predetermined roles associated with the account for the first user identifying one or more pseudo accounts corresponding to the one or more predetermined roles associating the second user with the one or more predetermined roles associated with the account for the first user and mapping the second user to the one or more pseudo accounts based on the one or more predetermined roles associated with the second user.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment mapping the second user to the one or more pseudo accounts may further comprise a dynamic mapping. In some embodiments the dynamic mapping may allow data associated with the account to be shared with one or more additional users.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the one or more additional users may comprise the first user.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment providing the second user access to the account may comprise authenticating an identifier associated with the second user. In some embodiments providing the second user access to the account may further comprise providing single sign on access to at least the account.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment the identifier may comprise at least one of a user identifier and password.

In another particular embodiment the techniques may be realized as a system for dynamically sharing accounts. The system may comprise one or more processors communicatively coupled to a network. The one or more processors may be configured to create at least one account associated with a service create one or more roles for the at least one account create at least one pseudo account corresponding to each of the one or more roles and assign at least one of the one or more roles to a plurality users for dynamically mapping the plurality of users to the at least one pseudo account for access to the at least one account based on the one or more roles wherein each of the plurality of users has access to data associated with the at least one account. In some embodiments each of the plurality of users may be able to access data or perform one or more functions associated with the at least one account.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the at least one account may be at least one shared account and the service is a Software as a Service.

In another particular embodiment the technique s may be realized as a method for dynamically sharing accounts. The method may comprise creating at least one account associated with a service creating one or more roles for the at least one account creating at least one pseudo account corresponding to each of the one or more roles and assigning at least one of the one or more roles to a plurality users for dynamically mapping the plurality of users to the at least one pseudo account for access to the at least one account based on the one or more roles wherein each of the plurality of users has access to data associated with the at least one account. In some embodiments each of the plurality of users may be able to access data or perform one or more functions associated with the at least one account.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the at least one account may be at least one shared account and the service is a Software as a Service.

The present disclosure will now be described in more detail with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof as shown in the accompanying drawings. While the present disclosure is described below with reference to exemplary embodiments it should be understood that the present disclosure is not limited thereto. Those of ordinary skill in the art having access to the teachings herein will recognize additional implementations modifications and embodiments as well as other fields of use which are within the scope of the present disclosure as described herein and with respect to which the present disclosure may be of significant utility.

With reference to computer system of modem network interface or some other method may be used to provide connectivity from one or more of client systems and to network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server A or B using for example a web browser or other client software not shown .

Such a client may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server A or B or one of storage devices A N B N and or N .

Networks and may be local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs the Internet cellular networks satellite networks or other networks that permit communication between clients servers and other devices communicatively coupled to networks and . Networks and may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Networks and may utilize one or more protocols of one or more clients or servers to which they are communicatively coupled. Networks and may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although networks and are each depicted as one network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments networks and may each comprise a plurality of interconnected networks.

Storage devices A N B N and or N may be network accessible storage and may be local remote or a combination thereof to server A or B. Storage devices A N B N and or N may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID magnetic tape disk a storage area network SAN an internet small computer systems interface iSCSI SAN a Fibre Channel SAN a common Internet File System CIFS network attached storage NAS a network file system NFS optical based storage or other computer accessible storage. Storage devices A N B N and or N may be used for backup or archival purposes.

According to some embodiments clients and may be smartphones PDAs desktop computers a laptop computers servers other computers or other devices coupled via a wireless or wired connection to network . Clients and may receive data from user input a database a file a web service and or an application programming interface.

Servers A and B may be application servers archival platforms backup servers network storage devices media servers email servers document management platforms enterprise search servers or other devices communicatively coupled to network . Servers A and B may utilize one of storage devices A N B N and or N for the storage of application data backup data or other data. Servers A and B may be hosts such as an application server which may process data traveling between clients and and a backup platform a backup process and or storage. According to some embodiments servers A and B may be platforms used for backing up and or archiving data. One or more portions of data may be backed up or archived based on a backup policy and or an archive applied attributes associated with the data source space available for backup space available at the data source or other factors.

According to some embodiments clients and or may contain one or more portions of software for providing access to data in dynamic shared accounts such as for example account management module . As illustrated one or more portions of account management module may reside at a network centric location. For example server A may be a server a firewall a gateway or other network element that may perform one or more actions to provide role based access control using dynamic shared accounts. According to some embodiments network may be an external network e.g. the Internet and server A may be a gateway or firewall between one or more internal components and clients and the external network.

Account management module may provide among other things role based access control RBAC for Software as a Service SaaS or a cloud computing model for an enterprise. On the SaaS provider side at least one account may be setup. Each of the at least one accounts may be setup with specific permissions for a designated role in the organization. Furthermore each account may be pre configured with variable access rights for one or more users.

When a user logs in to access one or more features of one or more SaaS account management module may be responsible for single sign on user identification authentication and authorization for all the users. For example account management module may not only grant access to the user e.g. via single sign on but also provision a particular account to one or more SaaS providers associated with the account management module . Based on the role and responsibility of the user in an organization or company the user may be dynamically provisioned to any one of the preconfigured user accounts. Thus the access of the user on the SaaS application may be accessible and or restricted based on role and his permissions.

Accordingly account management module may integrate role based access control throughout an organization without dependency on the SaaS provider and or specific implementation requirements of the SaaS. By dynamically mapping each of a plurality of users to one or more accounts for one or more of the various roles created for one or more SaaS role based access control using dynamic shared accounts may be provided to a SaaS applications on the cloud through federated identity management.

Using dynamic shared accounts may allow a more integrated and efficient approach to data management. As described above when users migrate from one organizational entity to another or leave an organization entirely data associated with such users may be orphaned and may need to be assigned or reassigned. In conventional systems assigning or reassigning such data may be challenging especially across multiple disparate SaaS or cloud service platforms if at all possible. However an account management module may easily provide access to data with one or more users or vice versa.

Computer system is suitable for implementing techniques in accordance with the present disclosure. Computer system may include a bus which may interconnect major subsystems of computer system such as a central processor a system memory e.g. RAM Random Access Memory ROM Read Only Memory flash RAM or the like an Input Output I O controller an external audio device such as a speaker system via an audio output interface an external device such as a display screen via display adapter serial ports and a keyboard interfaced via a keyboard controller a storage interface a floppy disk drive operative to receive a floppy disk a host bus adapter HBA interface card A operative to connect with a Fibre Channel network a host bus adapter HBA interface card B operative to connect to a SCSI bus and an optical disk drive operative to receive an optical disk . Also included may be a mouse or other point and click device coupled to bus via serial port a modem coupled to bus via serial port network interface coupled directly to bus power manager and battery .

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM is may be the main memory into which the operating system and application programs may be loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components. Applications resident with computer system may be stored on and accessed via a computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk an optical drive e.g. optical drive a floppy disk unit or other storage medium. For example account management module may be resident in system memory .

Storage interface as with the other storage interfaces of computer system can connect to a standard computer readable medium for storage and or retrieval of information such as a fixed disk drive . Fixed disk drive may be a part of computer system or may be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Modem may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a telephone link or to the Internet via an internet service provider ISP . Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via a POP point of presence . Network interface may provide such connection using wireless techniques including digital cellular telephone connection Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD connection digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. document scanners digital cameras and so on . Conversely all of the devices shown in need not be present to practice the present disclosure. The devices and subsystems can be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Code to implement the present disclosure may be stored in computer readable storage media such as one or more of system memory fixed disk optical disk or floppy disk . Code to implement the present disclosure may also be received via one or more interfaces and stored in memory. The operating system provided on computer system may be MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS 2 OS X UNIX Linux or another known operating system.

Power manager may monitor a power level of battery . Power manager may provide one or more APIs Application Programming Interfaces to allow determination of a power level of a time window remaining prior to shutdown of computer system a power consumption rate an indicator of whether computer system is on mains e.g. AC Power or battery power and other power related information. According to some embodiments APIs of power manager may be accessible remotely e.g. accessible to a remote backup management module via a network connection . According to some embodiments battery may be an Uninterruptable Power Supply UPS located either local to or remote from computer system . In such embodiments power manager may provide information about a power level of an UPS.

The description below describes network elements computers and or components of a system and method for providing access to data in dynamic shared accounts that may include one or more modules. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. Modules however are not to be interpreted as software which is not implemented on hardware firmware or recorded on a processor readable recordable storage medium i.e. modules are not software per se . It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices.

Role based access control module may request creation of one or more accounts with one or more SaaS. Role based access control module may create one or more profiles. Each of the one or more profiles may provide permissions for either a specific object or a set of objects. For each role that represents a specific job function role based access control module may assign a specific set of permissions profile applicable to that role. For each role role based access control module may create at least one account on the SaaS provider. It should be appreciated that many accounts may be created for a particular role to enable multiple users to login at the same time. As used herein these accounts may be referred to as pseudo accounts. In effect one or more pseudo accounts may serve as one or more slots associated with a particular role for an account at the SaaS provider.

In some embodiments a user may have hold one role for a specific application. Here when the user switches application the user may assume a different role and may perform an action specific to that role. However this may not always be the case.

In some embodiments roles for each pseudo account may differ for each user across various applications. For example an employee may have employee level access in one SaaS application and may be a system administrator for another SaaS application.

One benefit with role based access control using dynamic shared accounts across multiple applications may be that if any updates to the various roles needed to occur access privileges may be adjusted through adjustments in the pseudo account level. Any user associated with that particular role would receive a corresponding change in accessibility and privilege to their user account. This may provide greater flexibility efficiency and reliability.

Another benefit with role based access control using dynamic shared accounts across multiple applications may be that various users may have access to the same account or data. Having group ownership or sharing facilitates data reassignment or provisioning in the event of user termination or movement of a user from one organization entity to another especially if there are different access privileges associated with the organization entities.

Identity module may provide a user interface to a plurality of users in an organization. For example rather than directly logging in to an individual account at the SaaS application a user may log into via this user interface. Identity module may provide among other things various features including but not limited to single sign on user identification authentication and authorization and or role based verification.

One benefit with using identity module may be that users seeking access to one or more SaaS applications may be allowed e.g. via a single sign on procedure to access one or more accounts on a plurality of SaaS applications without logging in multiple times. Again this may provide greater flexibility and efficiency.

Dynamic account mapping module may map each user who logs in via identity module to one or more pseudo accounts. Mapping to these pseudo accounts may be dynamic. As described above since there may be a limited number of pseudo account created for each role at each SaaS dynamic account mapping module may be able to provide one or more users access to each SaaS based on an availability of each pseudo account or take other priority measures.

Error logging and reporting module may produce logs reports or other information associated with providing access to data in dynamic shared accounts.

For example SaaS may be a sales service such as SalesForce.com SaaS may be an accounting service such as Concur Expense Reporting and SaaS N may be a GoogleDocs document service where N may be an integer. There may be accounts created at SaaS with the following corresponding roles R R and R . R may be directed to a sales manager role R may be directed to a sales representative role and R may be directed to public view role. There may be accounts created at SaaS with the following corresponding roles R R and R . R may be directed to a finance role R may be directed to a manager role and R may be directed to an employee role. There may be accounts created at SaaS with the following corresponding roles RN RN and R . RN may be directed to a full editor role RN may be directed to a partial editor role and RN n may be directed to read only role where n may be an integer.

When a user Ulogs in via the account management module user Umay have sales manager privileges at SaaS finance privileges at SaaS and full editor access at SaaS N. In this example user Umay be an executive at a particular corporation who has full or almost full access to all the SaaS applications.

User Umay also log in via the account management module . While user Umay have sales manager access to SaaS user Umay have only employee access in SaaS and partial editor access in SaaS N. As a result depending on an employee s role in an organization his or her user level access to one or more SaaS applications may be preconfigured accordingly in the accounts management module .

User Umay also log in at the same time that user Uand user Uare logged in. In one scenario Umay also have sales manager privileges to SaaS . However since user Uand user Uare already logged in to the only two pseudo accounts created for that role R user Umay not have access to SaaS as a sales manager at that time. In some embodiments user Umay be denied access. In other embodiments user Umay be asked to wait. In yet other embodiments user Umay be granted access to another role that would provide equal or lesser access privileges than R . For example user Umay be offered access to R instead. Here user Umay accept since user Umay only need to access information on SaaS that both sales managers and sales representatives can access. Therefore account management module may provide dynamic mapping to the one or more shared accounts for each of the plurality of SaaS applications.

Because data is owned are shared by a group of users such data may be within the purview of an organization s purview. As a result dynamically shared data facilitates access among a plurality of users which may be especially helpful in situations where data would typically be orphaned by a user that is terminated or is moved to another organization entity with different access privileges and or data associated to the user s new role.

For example in a travel SaaS application of a travel organization there may be three classes of users employees travel agents and system administrators. All ticketing functions may be typically achieved by travel agents. But because all the data associated with ticketing functions may be owned or shared by the entire organization rather than the individual travel agents or their individual accounts if the travel agents is terminated or leaves the organization or is otherwise not available to perform his or functions a replacement travel agent may be able to handle all the same ticketing functions since the replacement travel agent may be provisioned to have access to the same data left by the unavailable travel agent user. The aforementioned features may find utility in data sharing data inheritance or a more advanced robust model for data user assignment or reassignment.

In some embodiments shared data may be associated with one or more tags or labels. Use of tags or labels may facilitate identification and or movement of data.

At block the account management module may identify a first user associated with an account. The account may be a Software as a Service SaaS account.

At block the account management module may identify a second user to have access to the account associated with the first user. For example in the event the first user is unavailable to access data or perform functions associated with the account a second user may provided access to the account originally associated with the first user.

At block the account management module may map the second user to the account. Mapping the second user to the account may further comprise identifying one or more predetermined roles associated with the account for the first user. Mapping the second user to the account may also comprise identifying one or more pseudo accounts corresponding to the one or more predetermined roles. The second user may then be associated with the one or more predetermined roles associated with the account for the first user. The second user may then be mapped to the one or more pseudo accounts based on the one or more predetermined roles associated with the second user.

In some embodiments availability of the one or more pseudo accounts may be determined . If for example the one or more pseudo accounts are not available for mapping e.g. because the one or more pseudo accounts are being accessed by other users in the organization at the time of the request mapping mapping the user to the one or more pseudo accounts may halt and continue at a later time. In some embodiments other available pseudo accounts corresponding to other equal or lesser roles may be made available to the user. In other embodiments the user may simply be denied access to the account and would try mapping later.

At block the account management module may map the user to the account via the one or more pseudo accounts in the event the one or more pseudo account is available for mapping. As discussed above in some cases the account management module may map the user to another pseudo account with equal or lesser privileges if the pseudo account corresponding to the predetermined roles is unavailable.

It should be appreciated that mapping the second user to the one or more pseudo accounts comprises a dynamic mapping. Dynamic mapping allows data associated with the account to be shared with one or more additional users e.g. the first user or other user.

At block the account management module may provide the second user access to the one or more Software as a Service accounts based on the mapping of the user to the one or more pseudo accounts corresponding to the one or more predetermined roles of the user.

It should be appreciated that providing the second user access to the account may comprise authenticating an identifier associated with the second user. The identifier may comprise a user identifier password and or other identifier. Authenticating the identifier may also comprise providing the second user access to the account comprises providing single sign on access to at least the account.

At block at least one account may be created with a Software as a Service SaaS . In some embodiments this may be achieved using the account management module . The account may be a shared account with preconfigured rules and privileges.

At block one or more roles for the at least one account may be created. These roles may also have preconfigured rules and privileges based on needs of an organization s policies and roles of its users. In some embodiments this may be achieved using the account management module .

At block at least one pseudo account corresponding to each of the one or more roles may be created. In some embodiments this may be achieved using the account management module .

At block at least one of the one or more roles may be assigned to a plurality users for dynamically mapping the plurality of users to the at least one pseudo account for access to the at least one account based on the one or more roles. In some embodiments this may be achieved using the account management module . By assigning the at least one of the one or more roles to a plurality of users rather than just a single user allows each of the plurality of users the ability to access data or perform one or more functions associated with the at least one account. As described above in the event one user is terminated or is otherwise unavailable to access data or perform one or more functions associated with the account another user may readily fill in for that user and have access to data or perform one or more functions associated with that account.

At this point it should be noted that providing access to data in dynamic shared accounts in accordance with the present disclosure as described above typically involves the processing of input data and the generation of output data to some extent. This input data processing and output data generation may be implemented in hardware or software. For example specific electronic components may be employed in a account management module or similar or related circuitry for implementing the functions associated with providing access to data in dynamic shared accounts in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. Alternatively one or more processors operating in accordance with instructions may implement the functions associated with providing access to data in dynamic shared accounts in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. If such is the case it is within the scope of the present disclosure that such instructions may be stored on one or more processor readable storage media e.g. a magnetic disk or other storage medium or transmitted to one or more processors via one or more signals embodied in one or more carrier waves.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed other various embodiments of and modifications to the present disclosure in addition to those described herein will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Thus such other embodiments and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure. Further although the present disclosure has been described herein in the context of a particular implementation in a particular environment for a particular purpose those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present disclosure may be beneficially implemented in any number of environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the present disclosure as described herein.

