---

title: Notification of alternative payment channel
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer program products are defined for notifying customers, post-transaction of the ability to change payment form for the just completed transaction. In addition, the notification may include the advantages presented by the alternative payment forms and/or the optimal payment form for the completed transaction. Once notified, the customer may effortlessly and automatically change the payment form if so desired. If the payment form is changed to an interest-bearing payment form, such as a credit or loan account, the customer may be subsequently notified with an option to automatically and immediately pay-off the transaction amount using another customer account, such as a savings account, checking account or the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08732077&OS=08732077&RS=08732077
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08732077
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120914
---
In general embodiments herein disclosed relate to commerce and more specifically providing customers with the ability to change payment type i.e. channel post transaction.

In many instances a customer is not aware of the advantages that a certain payment type e.g. a specific credit account a debit account a checking account e commerce payment entity cash or the like may afford them at the time the customer conducts the transaction. In some instances this is because the advantages may be tied to the type of products or services being purchased the transaction amount and or the merchant associated with the transaction.

These advantages may come in the form of a lower cost for the product or service transacted for lower interest rates cash back rewards loyalty program points or rewards extended warranty coverage or the like. However in many instances the advantages served by a payment type may be offset by detriments that customer prefers not to incur. For example while certain credit payment forms e.g. credit accounts may afford cash back rewards loyalty program points rewards extended warranties or the like they come at the cost of higher interest rates.

From the merchant and or financial institution perspective these entities will typically benefit from the consumer using some sort of payment type tied to the entity such as merchant branded or issued credit financial institution credit or debit or the like. Historically the merchant and or financial institution has encouraged the customer to use their merchant or financial institution specific payment form prior to the customer conducting a transaction. More recently merchant and financial institutions have attempted to encourage the customer to use their specific payment form at the point of sale POS or online check out process just prior to the customer completing the transaction. Such payment type persuasion may come in the form of signage sales associate encouragement and or special offers on e commerce check out page. However customers are usually in a hurry to complete the transaction and are therefore prone to ignore any suggestions or offers to change payment type even if the suggested payment type may be highly advantageous to the customer.

Therefore a need exists for providing customers the ability post transaction to change payment types. The customer should be presented with such a proposition shortly after the transaction has been conducted such that the transaction is fresh in the mind of the customer and such that the payment form used to conduct the transaction has yet to post. The process for changing payment form should be simplified and automatic such that the customer is not burdened in any way by a time consuming process. In addition the payment form change proposals may provide for the advantages of the alternative payment forms so that the customer is aware of the benefits posed by the proposed alternative payment types. In addition in those instances in which the customer makes a change in payment form and the changed payment form is a credit account which accrues interest a need exists for insuring that the credit account is paid off in a timely manner to eliminate or lessen the accrual of interest in the account.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Apparatus methods and computer program products are defined that provide for notifying customers of an option to change payment type for a completed transaction. For example once the customer has completed a transaction the point of sale POS device or some other device at the merchant s location may notify the customer of the option to change payment type or an electronic notification e.g. email Short Message Service SMS text or the like may be communicated to the customer that indicates the option to change the payment type.

In specific embodiments of the invention an optimal payment type may be determined based on the merchant at which the transaction was conducted the transaction amount or the type of products and or services included in the transaction. The optimal payment type may define optimal in terms of the best warranty protection the best interest rate the best cash back incentive the best loyalty rewards points or reward or the like. In such embodiments of the invention the customer may be notified of an option to change payment type to the optimal payment type.

In other specific embodiments once the customer has requested a change in payment form a remittance notification may be communicated to the customer which asks the customer is they desire to immediately remit payment to an account associated with the changed payment type. For example if the payment type was changed to a payment type e.g. a credit account affording the customer better warranty coverage better loyalty program points or the like but adversely incurring a higher interest rate the customer will desire to pay off that transaction amount as soon as possible so as to limit interest charges or not incur interest charges. The remittance notification allows the customer to respond to the notification such that payment is made to the payment account associated with the changed payment type automatically from a customer designated account.

An apparatus for providing customers an ability to change payment type defines first embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and at least one processor in communication with the memory. In addition the apparatus includes a payment type change module that is stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The module is configured to 1 receive an indication that a customer has completed a transaction with a merchant using a first payment type 2 generate and communicate to the customer a change payment type notification that offers the customer an opportunity to change payment type for the completed transaction from the first payment type to one of one or more second payment types 3 receive a customer request to change payment type from the first payment type to a customer chosen second payment type and 4 re route transaction payment from the first payment type to the second payment type.

In specific embodiments the apparatus also includes an optimal payment type determination module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The optimal payment type determination module is configured to determine an optimal payment type for the completed transaction based on one or more of products or services included in the transaction the merchant associated with the transaction or an amount of the transaction. Optimal may be defined by one or more of an optimal interest rate optimal warranty coverage optimal loyalty program points or optimal cash back reward. In such embodiments of the apparatus the payment type change module is further configured to generate and communicate to the customer the change payment type notification that includes the optimal payment type.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the payment type change module is further configured to generate and communicate to the customer the change payment type notification including stated advantages of the one or more second payment types. In still further specific embodiments of the apparatus the payment type change module is further configured to offer the customer the opportunity to change payment type to credit associated with the merchant for example a merchant branded credit card account or the like.

In further embodiments the apparatus includes a remittance notification and payment module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The remittance notification and payment module is configured to 1 generate and communicate to the customer a remittance notification that offers the customer an opportunity to remit funds in an amount of the transaction from a customer designated financial account to a payment account associated with the second payment type 2 in response to the notification receive a customer request to remit funds from the customer designated financial account to the payment account and 3 in response to the customer request immediately transfer funds in the amount of the transaction from the customer designated financial account to the payment account. In such embodiments of the apparatus the customer may configure at least one of a time for communicating the remittance notification a frequency of communicating the remittance notification or a communication channel for receiving the remittance notification and or the entity associated with the second payment type e.g. a merchant a financial institution or the like may configure at least one of a time for communicating the remittance notification or a frequency of communicating the remittance notification.

A method for providing customers an ability to change payment type for a completed transaction defines second embodiments of the invention. The method includes receiving an indication that a customer has completed a transaction with a merchant using a first payment type and in response to receiving the indication generating and communicating to the customer a change payment type notification that offers the customer an opportunity to change payment type for the completed transaction from the first payment type to one of one or more second payment types. In addition the method includes receiving a customer request to change payment type from the first payment type to a customer chosen second payment type and based on the request re routing transaction payment from the first payment type to the second payment type.

In specific embodiments the method may further include determining an optimal payment type for the transaction based on one or more of products or services included in the transaction the merchant associated with the transaction or an amount of the transaction. In such embodiments optimal is defined by one or more of an optimal interest rate optimal warranty coverage optimal loyalty program points or optimal cash back reward. In further such embodiments generating and communicating further include generating and communicating to the customer the change payment type notification to the customer that includes the optimal payment type.

In still further specific embodiments generating and communicating further include generating and communicating to the customer the change payment type notification including stated advantages of the one or more second payment types. In further specific embodiments the second payment type is credit associated with the merchant such as a merchant branded credit card account which the customer may already own or an offer for a new merchant branded credit card account.

Moreover in other specific embodiments the method includes 1 generating and communicating to the customer a remittance notification that offers the customer an opportunity to remit funds in an amount of the transaction from a customer designated financial account to a payment account associated with the second payment type 2 receiving a customer request to remit funds from the customer designated financial account to the payment account and 3 in response to the request immediately transferring funds in the amount of the transaction from the customer designated financial account to the payment account. In such embodiments of the method the customer may configure at least one of a time for communicating the remittance notification a frequency of communicating the remittance notification or a communication channel for receiving the remittance notification and or the entity associated with the second payment type e.g. a merchant a financial institution or the like may configure at least one of a time for communicating the remittance notification or a frequency of communicating the remittance notification.

A computer program product comprising a non transitory computer readable medium defines third embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer processor device to receive an indication that a customer has completed a transaction with a merchant using a first payment type and a second set of codes for causing a computer processor device to generate and communicating to the customer a change payment type notification that offers the customer an opportunity to change payment type for the completed transaction from the first payment type to one of one or more second payment types. The computer readable medium additionally includes a third set of codes for causing a computer processor device to receive a customer request to change payment type from the first payment type to a customer chosen second payment type and a fourth set of codes for causing a computer processor device to re route transaction payment from the first payment type to the second payment type.

Thus as described in more details below apparatus methods and computer program products are defined that provide for notifying customers post transaction of the ability to change payment form for the just completed transaction. In addition the notification may include the advantages presented by the alternative payment forms and or the optimal payment form for the completed transaction. Once notified the customer may effortlessly and automatically change the payment form if so desired. If the payment form is changed to an interest bearing payment form such as a credit or loan account the customer may be subsequently notified with an option to automatically and immediately pay off the transaction amount using another customer account such as a savings account checking account or the like.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Thus systems and computer program products are defined that provide for customers to make post transaction changes to payment type. The customers are notified of an option to change payment type for a completed transaction. In specific embodiments the notification occurs immediately following the transaction or shortly thereafter to insure that the transaction is still fresh in the mind of the customer and to insure that the payment type which the customer used for the transaction has yet to post. Posting of the transaction which typically occurs at the end of a day but may occur at shorter intervals within the day would prohibit a further change in payment type from occurring. For example once the customer has completed a transaction the point of sale POS device or some other device at the merchant s location may notify the customer of the option to change payment type or an electronic notification e.g. email Short Message Service SMS text or the like may be communicated to the customer that indicates the option to change the payment type. The notification includes options to change the payment type to one or more alternative payment types. In specific embodiments the notification includes a link or some other form of automatic payment change activation which upon customer activation i.e. customer request automatically processes the payment change request and re routes payment from the initial payment type used during the transaction to the post transaction customer chosen payment type.

In specific embodiments of the invention an optimal payment type may be determined based on 1 the merchant associated with the transaction 2 the transaction amount 3 the type of products and or services included in the transaction or 4 any other attribute associated with the transaction. The optimal payment type may define optimal in terms of the best price or the transaction warranty protection afforded the products or services in the transaction the best interest rate the best cash back incentive the best loyalty rewards points or reward or the like. In such embodiments of the invention the customer may be notified of an option to change payment type to the optimal payment type and the notification may provide indications as to why the optimal payment type is optimal.

In other specific embodiments once the customer has requested a change in payment form a remittance notification may be communicated to the customer which asks the customer is they desire to immediately remit payment to an account associated with the changed payment type. For example if the payment type was changed to a payment type e.g. a credit account affording the customer better warranty coverage better loyalty program points or the like but adversely incurring a higher interest rate the customer will desire to pay off that transaction amount as soon as possible so as to limit interest charges or not incur interest charges. The remittance notification allows the customer to respond to the notification such that payment is made to the payment account associated with the changed payment type automatically from a customer designated account.

Referring to a block diagram is provided of an apparatus configured for providing customers the ability to automatically change payment type otherwise referred to as payment channel payment form or the like after a transaction is completed. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and a processor in communication with the memory . The memory of apparatus stores payment type change module which is configured to provide customers post transaction the ability to change payment type.

The payment type change module is configured to receive a customer transaction indication that indicates that a customer has completed a merchant transaction using a first payment type . The merchant transaction may be an online transaction or a conventional physical location transaction i.e. brick and mortar . The first payment type may be any type of payment capable of identifying the customer . For example the first payment type may be associated with a credit account e.g. a credit card transaction a debit account e.g. a debit card transaction a loan account a checking account a mobile payment account or the like. It should also be noted that the first payment type may include any combination of different payment accounts or one or more payment account in combination with a non customer identifying payment type such as cash or the like.

The payment type change module is further configured in response to receiving the indication generating and communicating a change payment type notification to the customer that is configured to offer the customer an opportunity to automatically change payment type for the completed transaction from the first payment type to one of one or more second payment types . In specific embodiments of the invention the change payment type notification is in the form of electronic communication such as a short message service SMS text message an electronic mail email message a short range wireless message e.g. near field communication Bluetooth or the like or the like. In such embodiments the change payment type notification may be received by the wireless communication device in possession of the customer. In alternate embodiments of the invention the change payment type notification may be communicated to a display associated with a point of sale POS device such as a card reader display another device e.g. kiosk within a retail location or the like. In still further embodiments of the invention the change payment type notification may be posted or otherwise accessible via a mobile or online banking application. In most instances it will be advantageous to communicate the change payment type notification to the customer shortly after if not immediately after the completion of the transaction to insure that the transaction is fresh in the mind of the customer and to insure that re routing of the payment form the initial first payment type to a second payment type is still feasible. It should be noted that different payment types will afford different periods of time during which payment type change may be feasible and in certain instances a payment type may be prohibitive of payment type change.

The change payment type notification may include one specific second payment type or multiple different second payment types from which the customer may choose. In those embodiments in which the notification includes one specific second payment type the second payment type may be one preferred by the merchant or financial institution such as a merchant associated credit type e.g. merchant branded credit card account while in other embodiments the one specific second payment type may be an optimal payment type for the completed transaction. The process for determination of optimal payment types is discussed infra. in relation to . In those embodiments in which the notification includes more than one second payment type the notification may additionally include the advantages associated with each second payment type so that the customer can make an informed payment change decision. It should also be noted that in certain embodiments the payment change may configured such that the customer may choose more than one second payment type and designate portions of the completed transaction amount to each of the chosen second payment types .

As previously noted the change payment type notification provides the ability for the customer to automatically change payment type thus the notification additionally includes an automatic payment change mechanism such as a link embedded in the electronic communication or the like which upon activation by the customer initiates the automatic change of payment type from the first payment type to the customer chosen second payment type . The automatic payment change mechanism may be configured to generate and communicate wireless or in some embodiments wired communication to a network device configured to implement the payment type changes. Once the customer agrees to payment change designated second payment type s for the payment change and activated the automatic payment change mechanism the module receives the payment change request which includes one or more second payment types . In the event more than one second payment type is chosen by the customer the payment change request will also include the breakdown of the transaction amount applied to each second payment type . In response to receipt of the payment change request the payment type change module implements transaction payment re router which is configured to re route transaction payment from the initial first payment type to the one or more second payment types .

Referring to a block diagram is depicted of an apparatus configured for providing customers the opportunity to change payment type after the completion of a transaction in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. provided description of alternative embodiments of the present invention. As previously the apparatus includes a computing platform having one or more processors and a memory in communication with the processor s . The memory may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or another processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as payment type change module remittance notification module or the like stored in the memory of the apparatus .

Processor may include various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a wired or wireless network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other devices in the network. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem used in conjunction with payment type change module remittance notification module or subcomponents or sub modules thereof.

The memory of apparatus includes payment type change module configured to which is configured to provide customers post transaction the ability to change payment type. As previously discussed the payment type change module is configured to receive a customer transaction indication that indicates that a customer has completed a merchant transaction using a first payment type . The merchant transaction may be an online transaction or a conventional physical location transaction. The first payment type may be any type of payment capable of identifying the customer . For example the first payment type may be associated with a credit account e.g. a credit card transaction a debit account e.g. a debit card transaction a loan account a checking account a mobile payment account or the like. It should also be noted that the first payment type may include any combination of different payment accounts or one or more payment account in combination with a non customer identifying payment type such as cash or the like. The module thus is in network communication with credit card processing entities check approval entities debit card processing entities and the like which provide the module with the requisite indication typically in real time or near real time to completion of the transaction.

In optional embodiment of the invention the payment type change module includes an optimal payment type determination sub module that is configured to determine the optimal payment type for the completed transaction prior to generating and communicating the change payment notification . The optimal payment type may be defined by the lowest transaction cost the highest cash back reward the highest allotment of loyalty program point the best or longest extended warranty coverage the lowest interest rate or combinations of these optimization attributes used to determine what would be the best overall or most optimal payment type. The basis or criteria for determining the optimal payment type includes but is not limited to the merchant at which the transaction occurred the transaction amount the type of product s or service s included in the transaction or any other 62 attribute associated with the transaction the customer or the merchant which may provide for an optimal payment type. For example if the transaction included electronics as a product type the customer may benefit from extended warranty coverage provided by a specific type of credit. In another example a transaction for a high amount may provide the customer with a large cash back rewards or large allotment of loyalty program rewards if a specific type of credit is used as payment for the transaction.

The payment type change module is further configured in response to receiving the indication and in some embodiments determining the optimal payment type generating and communicating a change payment type notification to the customer that is configured to offer the customer an opportunity to automatically change payment type for the completed transaction from the first payment type to one of one or more second payment types .

As previously noted the change payment type notification may include one specific second payment type or multiple different second payment types from which the customer may choose. In those embodiments in which the notification includes one specific second payment type the second payment type may be the determined optimal payment type . In other embodiments the second payment type may be one preferred by the merchant or financial institution such as a merchant associated credit payment type e.g. merchant branded credit card account . In those embodiments in which the notification includes more than one second payment type the notification may additionally include the advantages associated with each second payment type so that the customer can make an informed payment change decision.

The change payment type notification provides the ability for the customer to automatically change payment type thus the notification additionally includes an automatic payment change mechanism such as a link embedded in the electronic communication or the like which upon activation by the customer initiates the automatic change of payment type from the first payment type to the customer chosen second payment type . The automatic payment change mechanism may be configured to generate and communicate wireless or in some embodiments wired communication to a network device configured to implement the payment type changes.

In addition the notification may include the allotted time for making a payment type change decision . The allotted time may vary depending on the processing time for the first payment type or other factors associated with the merchant the financial institution or the customer. For example customer status e.g. a preferred customer status may afford the customer an extended period of time for making the change payment type decision. In certain instances the allotted time for making a payment type change may expire within minutes of receiving the change payment type notification .

It should be noted that the payment type change system of the present invention may be implemented as a merchant program or as a financial institution program. As such the customer may register for inclusion or exclusion from the program through the merchant or financial institution e.g. in person registration web site based registration mobile online banking registration or the like . As such the customer may define various customer configurations that dictate various aspects of the change payment type notification . For example the customer may dictate the communication channel at which they desire to receive the notification e.g. text message versus email the merchants at which they desire transactions to prompt the notification a purchaser amount threshold that would prompt the notifications a product or service type selection that would prompt the notifications and the like. In other embodiments the merchant or financial institution configurations may be implemented alone or unison with customer configurations to dictate the parameters for communicating the change payment type notifications .

Referring to the payment type change module is also configured once the customer has agreed to payment change designated second payment type s and activated the automatic payment change mechanism to receive a payment change request which includes one or more second payment types . In response to receipt of the payment change request the payment type change module implements transaction payment re router which is configured to re route transaction payment from the initial first payment type to the one or more second payment types .

In alternative embodiments of the invention the memory of apparatus also includes a remittance notification module that is configured to generate and communicate a remittance notification that is configured to notify the customer of an option to automatically and immediately satisfy i.e. pay the account associated with the second payment type in the amount of the transaction at the bequest of the customer . The remittance notification may be communicated to a customer via customer designated communication channel such as text message email or the like.

As previously noted the customer may have initial paid for the transaction using a debit account as the first payment type and subsequently changed to a credit based second payment type for the purpose of benefiting from a lower transaction cost additional rewards additional loyalty program points an extended warranty or the like. However the credit payment type is associated with interest fees which may be immediately assessed or assessed at various intervals such as monthly or the like. The customer may have initially chosen debit type payment to avoid any interest related charges. Therefore the customer has a strong desire to lessen or possibly avoid any interest related charges. The remittance notification serves to not only remind the customer that they have certain charges pending against a credit account but also provides for the customer to immediately and automatically pay off the credit account charges that resulted from a post transaction payment type change. Thus the remittance notification provides the customer further incentive to accept a post transaction option to change payment type to a credit based payment since the customer knows that the remittance notifications will be forthcoming and are operative upon customer acceptance to immediately and automatically pay off the outstanding credit amount equivalent to the transaction amount.

As previously noted the remittance notification provides the ability for the customer to automatically pay off the account associated with the second payment type in the amount of the transaction from a customer designated financial account thus the notification additionally includes an automatic payment mechanism such as a link embedded in the electronic communication or the like which upon activation by the customer initiates the automatic pay off of the account associated with the second payment type . The automatic payment mechanism may be configured to generate and communicate wireless or in some embodiments wired communication to a network device configured to implement the payment. Once the customer agrees to automated payment designates a financial account such as a checking or savings account for payment for payment and activates the automatic payment mechanism the module receives the payment remittance request which includes one or more customer designated financial accounts . In the event more than one customer designated financial accounts is chosen by the customer the payment remittance request will also include the breakdown of the transaction amount to be paid from each of the designated financial accounts In response to receipt of the payment remittance request the remittance notification module implements transaction amount payment transferor which is configured to transfer the transaction amount from the customer designated financial account s to the second payment account .

The customer may define various customer configurations associated with the remittance notifications that dictate various aspects of the remittance notification . For example the customer may dictate the communication channel at which they desire to receive the notification e.g. text message versus email the timing and or frequency of the notifications and the type of second payment types which dictate the notifications. In other embodiments the merchant or financial institution configurations may be implemented alone or unison with customer configurations to dictate the parameters for communicating the remittance notifications .

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for changing payment type post transaction in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event an indication is received that a customer has completed a transaction with a merchant using a first payment type. The indication will generally be received from a payment processing entity in real time or near real time to the completion of the transaction. The merchant transaction may be an online transaction or a conventional physical location transaction i.e. brick and mortar . The first payment type may be any type of payment capable of identifying the customer. For example the first payment type may be associated with a credit account e.g. a credit card transaction a debit account e.g. a debit card transaction a loan account a checking account a mobile payment account or the like. It should also be noted that the first payment type may include any combination of different payment accounts or one or more payment account in combination with a non customer identifying payment type such as cash or the like.

At Event in response to the receipt of the indication a payment type change notification is generated and communicated to the customer. The notification is configured to offer the customer an opportunity to automatically change payment type for the completed transaction from the first payment type to one or more second payment types. In addition the notification may include the advantages associated with each second payment type. In specific embodiments the second payment type may be a merchant associated payment type such as merchant issued or merchant branded credit account.

In optional embodiments of the invention a determination of the optimal payment type may be made prior to generating and communicating the payment type change notification such that the notification includes the optimal payment type. The optimal payment type may be based on one or more of transaction cost types of products or services included in the transaction the merchant associated with the transaction the amount of the transaction or the like. Optimal may be defined by any combination of best interest rate best warranty protection highest allotment of loyalty program rewards loyalty or cash back rewards or the like.

At Event in response to the customer accepting the payment change offer a customer request to change the payment type is received. The customer request indicates the customer chosen second payment type s . It should be noted that the customer request is received in response to the customer activating some automatic payment change mechanism such as a hyper link or the like included in the notification such that the payment change can occur without any other intervention on behalf of the customer other than identifying the second payment type s .

At Event the transaction payment is re routed from the first payment type to the customer chosen second payment type.

At optional events not shown in a remittance notification may be generated and communicated to the customer that offers the customer the opportunity to automatically remit funds in the amount of the transaction from a customer designated financial account e.g. debit account savings account checking account or the like to the account s associated with the second payment type. Such remittance serves to pay off the transaction amount in credit accounts which may accrue interest if a payment is not forthcoming. In response to the notification the customer may accept the offer designated a financial institution account and activate a transfer mechanism in the notification to communicate a customer request to remit the funds such that funds in the amount of the transaction are transferred form the customer designated financial account to the account s associated with the second payment type.

Thus apparatus methods and computer program products are described above that provide for notifying customers post transaction of the ability to change payment form for the just completed transaction. In addition the notification may include the advantages presented by the alternative payment forms and or the optimal payment form for the completed transaction. Once notified the customer may effortlessly and automatically change the payment form if so desired. If the payment form is changed to an interest bearing payment form such as a credit or loan account the customer may be subsequently notified with an option to automatically and immediately pay off the transaction amount using another customer account such as a savings account checking account or the like.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

