---

title: Apparatus for improved mobility in a wireless heterogeneous network
abstract: Generally, this disclosure provides apparatus and methods for improved User Equipment (UE) mobility in wireless heterogeneous networks. The UE device may include a location determination module configured to determine location information associated with the UE relative to one or more of a cells, wherein the of cells form part of a wireless heterogeneous network; a processing circuit configured to generate an assistance message, the assistance message including the location information associated with the UE; and a transmitter circuit configured to transmit a Radio Resource Control (RRC) message to an evolved Node B (eNB) associated with one of the cells, the RRC message including the assistance message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09055474&OS=09055474&RS=09055474
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09055474
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121205
---
The present patent application is related to and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 624 185 filed Apr. 13 2012.

The present disclosure relates to wireless heterogeneous networks and more particularly to apparatus and methods for improved User Equipment UE mobility in wireless heterogeneous networks.

Wireless networks for example Long Term Evolution LTE and LTE Advanced LTE A networks may be heterogeneous networks that include macro cells providing higher power wider area coverage and small cells providing lower power reduced area coverage. Small cells may include femto cells suitable for home or office coverage and pico cells for larger indoor environments such as shopping centers. A base station for example an evolved Node B eNB transceiver may be associated with each cell to provide network access to wireless mobile devices for example User Equipment UEs passing through that cell coverage area.

Small cells may be located within a macro cell coverage area. These small cells may be provided to offer additional capacity e.g. to handle more UEs or they may be provided to offer additional coverage e.g. to fill in coverage holes or gaps in the macro cell coverage area .

As the UE travels through small cell coverage areas cell handovers may be required which can result in network system and UE inefficiencies and other problems. These problems include increased detection and reporting of serving cell channel quality increased UE power consumption conflict and shortage of Cell IDs and excessive handover between cells with an increased risk of radio link failure.

Although the following Detailed Description will proceed with reference being made to illustrative embodiments many alternatives modifications and variations thereof will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

Generally this disclosure provides apparatus and methods for improved User Equipment UE mobility in a wireless heterogeneous network for example an LTE or LTE A network that includes macro cells and small cells. The UE e.g. the mobile device may be configured with location circuitry enabling a determination of motion for example exiting and entering with respect to detected and identified cells. The UE may transmit this motion or proximity information to an evolved Node B eNB base station and the information may assist the eNB with the performance of handovers of the UE from one cell to another. The eNB may be configured to maintain a database of neighboring cells and this database may include the usage type of each cell where usage type indicates whether the cell is provided for capacity enhancement or coverage enhancement.

In some embodiments the UE may be configured to perform signal measurements on neighbor cells when the Reference Signal Received Power RSRP of the serving cell falls below a threshold and the threshold may be based on the usage type of the neighboring cells. The UE may be further configured to report the signal measurements to the serving cell during a time period that is based on the usage type of the neighboring cells. In some embodiments for example when multiple small cells transmit a Cell Specific Reference Signal CRS using the same Cell ID the eNB may be configured to identify a subframe of the CRS on which the UE may perform the signal measurement. The above mentioned features may be provided to decrease the amount of time that the UE devotes to measuring signals and reporting the measurements thus increasing efficiency UE and network efficiency.

Small cells may include for example pico cells and femto cells. The macro cell eNB provides cell coverage area while small cell eNB provides cell coverage area and small cell eNB provides cell coverage area . UE is shown to travel on a path through each of the cell coverage areas which may result in handovers between eNBs.

Small cell eNB of this example is configured as a capacity usage type cell. That is to say eNB is provided to increase network capacity by handling additional UEs that may be offloaded from another eNB that is closer to maximum channel or resource capacity. In contrast small cell eNB of this example is configured as a coverage usage type cell. That is to say eNB is provided to improve coverage by filling in coverage holes or gaps in the coverage area of the macro cell coverage area . Efficiency improvements associated with UE mobility may be obtained by employing this cell type usage information in connection with operations performed by the UE and the eNBs as will be described below.

Some existing smartphone UE applications allow a user to customize phone behavior based on location. For example a user may define through such an application certain areas associated with GPS locations or linked to particular Cell IDs or WiFI SSIDs. These defined areas may be specified by the user as a particular type of area such as an office area or a home area which may be associated with a particular small cell. The location and exiting entering information may be made available to the UE by the application software through an application programming interface API .

The Radio Resource Control RRC Media Access Control MAC layer of the UE controls the transmissions that are carried out by the air interface layer of the UE. The RRC MAC layer may be notified and provided with the location information from the API . The RRC MAC layer may then send an assistance information message to the network e.g. small cell eNB or macro cell eNB which may use this information to perform network optimizations for example the configuration of network parameters associated with mobility as will be described below.

The assistance information message may include a number of fields. A type field may indicate whether the exiting or entering condition is satisfied. A small cell type field may indicate whether the small cell is an office cell or a home cell. Additional fields may indicate whether the serving cell is a preferred small cell as well as the preferred small cell carrier frequency and or Physical Cell Identity PCI . The assistance information message may be incorporated into an existing Proximity Indication RRC message or may be implemented as a new type of RRC message.

Serving cell eNB is shown to maintain a neighbor cell list which includes information about neighboring cells that assists the UE in performing neighbor cell signal measurements. This information may include the usage type of the neighbor cells i.e. whether it is a capacity type cell or a coverage type cell . For example if the neighboring cell is a coverage type cell the UE may need to send signal measurement reports within a shorter time period after a measurement report is triggered to avoid radio link failure with the serving cell before a handover command is received from the serving cell. In the case of a capacity type cell where coverage overlaps with the macro cell radio link failure is less likely to occur so measurement reports may be less time critical.

The UE may be configured to advantageously adjust a number of LTE and LTE A measurement related parameters based on the provided usage information that is specified for the neighboring cells as described above. These parameters may include for example s Measure and timeToTrigger as will be described below.

The s Measure parameter may control at least in part the measurement requirement associated with the UE performance of signal measurements on neighboring cells including intra frequency inter frequency and inter Radio Access Technology RAT measurements. The UE is generally required to perform these measurements when the RSRP from the serving cell falls below the specified s Measure value or in other words when the radio link between the UE and the serving cell may be decreasing in strength.

The timeToTrigger parameter is provided to avoid frequent triggering of measurement reporting. illustrates an LTE or LTE A ReportConfigEUTRA data structure which may be part of an RRC message which includes an existing timeToTrigger data field . The timeToTrigger parameter defines a time duration during which the UE may send the measurement report after a measurement reporting event occurs. In some embodiments an additional timeToTrigger field timeToTrigger add may be provided. For example if the usage of a neighboring cell is capacity type the timeToTrigger add value may be used to determine whether the triggering condition is met. Otherwise if the usage is coverage type or the usage is not specified or configured the TimeToTrigger value may be used to determine whether the triggering condition is met.

In this case the same CRS may be transmitted in all of the small cells within the small cell cluster. Because the small cells have the same cell ID the same Primary Synchronization Signal PSS Secondary Synchronization Signal SSS and or CRS may be transmitted from multiple cells in the same cluster. The UE performs signal measurement based on the CRS which are used for mobility and or proximity indication as previously described. In some embodiments in order to relax inter frequency cell detection complexity the CRS may be transmitted at a lower density compared to the existing LTE CRS transmission density. For example the CRS may be transmitted once per 5 ms or 10 ms interval. To take advantage of this coarser periodicity the eNB may provide information for the UE to identify the subframe in which the CRS is transmitted enabling the UE to use a measurement gap length less than the existing 6 ms LTE measurement gap length. This improves efficiency since the UE receiver is being burdened with the measurement function for a shorter period of time.

In some network configurations for example to increase capacity small cells may be deployed at different frequencies from the macro cell. In this case the UEs need to perform inter frequency measurements to detect these small cells. Many UEs to reduce cost lack dual channel receivers that would enable the detection of two different frequency channels simultaneously. These UEs instead use the measurement gaps to temporarily switch frequencies for this purpose with the guarantee that the serving cell will not transmit to the UE during the measurement gap when the information would be lost to the UE. The use of measurement gaps for inter frequency measurement however results in increased UE power consumption and interruption time which reduces UE throughput. As an alternative some small cell eNBs may have dual RF receivers that can detect both small cell carrier frequencies and the macro cell UE uplink signal. To support this operation the macro cell may need to transmit cell specific Sounding Reference Signal SRS configuration information and UE specific SRS configuration information for the UEs served by the macro cell. Alternatively the small cell may perform blind detection based on just the cell specific SRS configuration. When the small cell detects the SRS preamble the small cell can send the measurement report to the macro cell.

Information that may be transmitted in the measurement report includes the detected UE identity and the received Signal to Noise Ratio SNR of the SRS. If the small cell is not provided the UE specific SRS configuration the small cell can send the detected SRS sequence and the detected subframe as an alternative to the UE identity.

Embodiments of the methods described herein may be implemented in a system that includes one or more storage mediums having stored thereon individually or in combination instructions that when executed by one or more processors perform the methods. Here the processor may include for example a system CPU e.g. core processor and or programmable circuitry. Thus it is intended that operations according to the methods described herein may be distributed across a plurality of physical devices such as processing structures at several different physical locations. Also it is intended that the method operations may be performed individually or in a subcombination as would be understood by one skilled in the art. Thus not all of the operations of each of the flow charts need to be performed and the present disclosure expressly intends that all subcombinations of such operations are enabled as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

The storage medium may include any type of tangible medium for example any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks compact disk read only memories CD ROMs compact disk rewritables CD RWs digital versatile disks DVDs and magneto optical disks semiconductor devices such as read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs such as dynamic and static RAMs erasable programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs flash memories magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

 Circuitry as used in any embodiment herein may comprise for example singly or in any combination hardwired circuitry programmable circuitry state machine circuitry and or firmware that stores instructions executed by programmable circuitry. An app may be embodied as code or instructions which may be executed on programmable circuitry such as a host processor or other programmable circuitry. A module as used in any embodiment herein may be embodied as circuitry. The circuitry may be embodied as an integrated circuit such as an integrated circuit chip.

Thus the present disclosure provides apparatus and methods for improved UE mobility in wireless heterogeneous networks.

According to one aspect there is provided a UE. The UE may include a location determination module configured to determine location information associated with the UE relative to one or more of a plurality of cells and the plurality of cells form part of a wireless heterogeneous network. The UE of this example may also include a processing circuit configured to generate an assistance message the assistance message including the location information associated with said UE. The UE of this example may further include a transmitter circuit configured to transmit an RRC message to an eNB associated with one of the plurality of cells the RRC message including the assistance message.

Another example UE includes the forgoing components and the location determination module is further configured to determine location of the UE based on a received signal selected from the group consisting of a GPS signal a received Cell ID and a received WiFi SSID.

Another example UE includes the forgoing components and the location information further includes an indication of motion of the UE from a first cell of the plurality of cells towards a second cell of the plurality of cells.

Another example UE includes the forgoing components and the assistance message further includes a preferred cell carrier frequency.

Another example UE includes the forgoing components and the assistance message further includes a preferred PCI.

Another example UE includes the forgoing components and further includes memory coupled to the processing circuit an I O system coupled to the processing circuit and a touchscreen display coupled to the I O system.

According to another aspect there is provided a UE. The UE may include a receiver circuit configured to receive a list of neighbor cells relative to the UE the NCL received from a serving eNB the serving eNB serving the UE. The UE of this example may also include a processing circuit configured to extract usage information from the NCL the usage information associated with the neighbor cells of the NCL the usage information including a capacity type cell usage indicator and a coverage type cell usage indicator. The UE of this example may further include a signal measurement circuit configured to perform neighbor cell signal measurements based on the usage information associated with the neighbor cells.

Another example UE includes the forgoing components and the signal measurement circuit is further configured to perform the neighbor cell signal measurements in response to an RSRP of the serving eNB falling below a threshold the threshold based on the usage information associated with the neighbor cells.

Another example UE includes the forgoing components and further includes a transmitter circuit configured to report the neighbor cell signal measurements to the serving eNB within a time period after a measurement reporting event occurs the time period based on the usage information associated with the neighbor cells.

Another example UE includes the forgoing components and the NCL is included in a MeasObjectEutra information element of an RRC message received from the serving eNB.

Another example UE includes the forgoing components and the NCL is included in a System Information Block received from the serving eNB.

According to another aspect there is provided a UE. The UE may include a receiver circuit configured to receive data from a serving eNB the serving eNB serving the UE the data identifying a subframe associated with a CRS transmitted from a first neighbor cell. The receiver of this example may further be configured to receive the CRS from the first neighbor cell where the CRS includes a first Cell ID and one or more other neighbor cells transmit a CRS including a second Cell ID the second Cell ID equal to the first Cell ID. The UE of this example may also include a signal measurement circuit configured to perform a signal measurement on the identified subframe associated with the CRS transmitted from the first neighbor cell.

Another example UE includes the forgoing components and the CRS is transmitted with a period in the approximate range of 5 milliseconds to 10 milliseconds.

Another example UE includes the forgoing components and the signal measurement circuit is further configured to perform a signal measurement based on a discovery signal transmitted from a cell the discovery signal selected from the group consisting of a PSS an SSS and a CRS.

Another example UE includes the forgoing components and the discovery signal includes a virtual Cell ID the virtual Cell ID associated with a cluster of neighbor cells.

Another example UE includes the forgoing components and the signal measurement circuit is further configured to perform a signal measurement based on a CSI RS transmitted from a cell.

According to another aspect there is provided an eNB transceiver. The eNB may include a processing circuit configured to maintain an NCL the NCL including usage information associated with the neighboring cells the usage information indicating capacity type cell usage and coverage type cell usage. The eNB of this example may also include a transmitter circuit configured to transmit the NCL to one or more UEs in a serving cell associated with the eNB the usage information determining timing of cell signal measurement reports generated by the UEs. The transmitter circuit of this example may further be configured to transmit CRS subframe identification to the UEs the UEs configured to perform signal measurement on the CRS subframe.

Another example eNB includes the forgoing components and a plurality of cells transmit a CRS including a common Cell ID.

Another example eNB includes the forgoing components and further includes a dual receiver circuit configured to measure a first frequency carrier associated with a neighbor small cell and a second frequency carrier associated with a neighbor macro cell.

Another example eNB includes the forgoing components and the transmitter circuit is further configured to transmit an SRS and a UE Specific SRS.

According to another aspect there is provided a method. The method may include receiving from an eNB associated with a serving cell of the UE usage information associated with neighboring cells of the UE the usage information indicating capacity type cell usage and coverage type cell usage. The method of this example may also include receiving an RSRP from the eNB. The method of this example may further include determining RSRP thresholds associated with the neighboring cells the RSRP thresholds based on the usage information associated with the neighboring cells. The method of this example may further include performing signal measurements on the neighboring cells based on a comparison of the RSRP to the RSRP thresholds.

Another example method includes the forgoing operations and further includes reporting the neighbor cell signal measurements to the serving cell within a time period after a measurement reporting event occurs the time period based on the usage information associated with the neighboring cell.

Another example method includes the forgoing operations and further includes determining motion of the UE relative to a cell the motion including exit of the UE from a first cell and entrance of the UE to a second cell and transmitting an RRC message from the UE to an eNB the RRC message including the motion determination.

Another example method includes the forgoing operations and the motion determination is based on a received GPS signal a received Cell ID and or a received WiFi SSID.

Another example method includes the forgoing operations and further includes receiving data from the eNB identifying a subframe of a CRS wherein a plurality of cells transmit a CRS including a common Cell ID and performing a signal measurement on the subframe of the CRS.

Another example method includes the forgoing operations and further includes performing a signal measurement based on a discovery signal transmitted from a cell the discovery signal including a PSS an SSS and or a CRS.

According to another aspect there is provided a computer readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon which when executed by a processor result in the operations for improving UE mobility in a heterogeneous network previously described.

The terms and expressions which have been employed herein are used as terms of description and not of limitation and there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof and it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the claims. Accordingly the claims are intended to cover all such equivalents. Various features aspects and embodiments have been described herein. The features aspects and embodiments are susceptible to combination with one another as well as to variation and modification as will be understood by those having skill in the art. The present disclosure should therefore be considered to encompass such combinations variations and modifications.

