---

title: Systems and methods for nerve imaging
abstract: Systems and methods for imaging are presented. The method includes producing excitation light configured to induce fluorescence in an imaging agent that selectively binds to a target species in a region of interest (ROI) of a subject that also includes a background species. A first and a second spectral region are selected such that a determined difference between fluorescence corresponding to the target and the background species in the first spectral region differs from a corresponding difference in the second spectral region. First and second fluorescence images are generated from the fluorescence corresponding to the first and second spectral regions. Additionally, a fluorescence ratio for the background species in the first and second fluorescence image is determined. The first fluorescence image is then multiplied or divided with the determined ratio to generate an intermediate image that is subtracted from the second fluorescent image to reconstruct a background-subtracted image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08977331&OS=08977331&RS=08977331
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08977331
owner_city: Niskayuna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121213
---
This invention was made with government support under R01 EB011872 awarded by National Institutes of Health through the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to fluorescence imaging and more particularly to systems and methods for suppression of background species during nerve imaging.

Surgical procedures including laparoscopic studies and interventions are prone to cause iatrogenic nerve damage which in turn may lead to loss of function loss of sensation muscle atrophy and or chronic neuropathy in a patient. Often such damage is caused inadvertently during surgery due to poor visibility of a target species for example nerves in comparison to surrounding tissues. Accordingly certain imaging systems employ anatomical landmark identification for imaging the target species. Certain other systems use optical imaging for microscopic and or macroscopic visualization of the target species. For example in recent times systems employing fluorescence image guided surgery have been used for visualizing nerves and other critical structures during surgery.

Particularly fluorescence imaging allows highlighting of biological molecules and structures by providing greater contrast and visualization of these structures to a clinician during surgery and or endoscopy. To that end a fluorescence agent fluorophore may be administered to a patient for targeted labeling of diseased structures such as cancerous tumor margins and or for labeling of critical anatomical structures such as nerves or the ureter for visualization during clinical examination and or surgery. Although the fluorophores are designed to label a particular species for example nerves or tumor margins nonspecific or competitive binding of the fluorophores may result in poor signal to background ratio SBR and or limited dynamic range. Accordingly many bright fluorophores that specifically label biological targets and have favorable biological and chemical properties may be eliminated from the development pipeline due to inadequate SBR thus resulting in a dearth of efficient fluorophores.

Certain imaging systems thus have sought to use more efficient algorithms and or acquisition protocols for improved fluorescent imaging. One conventional imaging system operating in the near infrared spectrum for example describes use of a normalized fluorescence method that corrects for attenuation heterogeneity across a tissue surface. Specifically the normalized fluorescence method employs a ratio based correction which corrects for measurements at the emission fluorescence wavelength. Typically the corrections are made by dividing the measurements with geometrically identical light attenuation measurements in tissue at the same or similar wavelengths such as at the excitation wavelength.

Although such conventional approaches may allow generation of fluorescence images indicative of spatially varying absorption in the imaged tissue such approaches still fail to provide significant improvement in suppressing unintentionally labeled background tissues while allowing for reliable identification of target biological tissues during imaging.

In accordance with certain exemplary aspects of the present disclosure an imaging system is disclosed. The system includes one or more illumination sources configured to produce excitation light that induces fluorescence emissions in an imaging agent configured to bind to a target species in a region of interest of a subject that further includes a background species. The system further includes at least one beam splitter configured to separate the fluorescence emissions into a first spectral region and a second spectral region where a determined difference between fluorescence corresponding to the target species and the background species in the first spectral region differs from a corresponding difference in the second spectral region. The system also includes one or more signal detectors configured to collect fluorescence emissions corresponding to the first spectral region and the second spectral region. Additionally the system includes a processing unit operatively coupled to the one or more signal detectors. The processing unit is configured to generate a first fluorescence image from the fluorescence emissions corresponding to the first spectral region and a second fluorescence image from the fluorescence emissions corresponding to the second spectral region. Further the processing unit determines a ratio of fluorescence corresponding to the background species in the first fluorescence image and the second fluorescence image. The processing unit then multiplies or divides the first fluorescence image with the determined ratio to generate an intermediate image. Subsequently the processing unit reconstructs a background subtracted image by subtracting the intermediate image from the second fluorescence image.

In accordance with certain other aspects of the present disclosure a system for nerve imaging is presented. The system includes one or more illumination sources configured to produce at least a first excitation wavelength and a second excitation wavelength for inducing fluorescence emissions in an imaging agent where the imaging agent selectively binds to a target species in a region of interest of a subject that further includes a background species. Particularly the first excitation wavelength and the second excitation wavelength are selected such that a determined difference between fluorescence corresponding to the target species and the background species emitted in response to the first excitation wavelength differs from a corresponding difference in fluorescence emitted in response to the second excitation wavelength. The system further includes one or more signal detectors configured to collect the fluorescence emitted in response to the first excitation wavelength and the second excitation wavelength. Additionally the system also includes a processing unit operatively coupled to the one or more signal detectors. The processing unit is configured to generate a first fluorescence image from the fluorescence emitted in response to the first excitation wavelength and a second fluorescence image from fluorescence emitted in response to the second excitation wavelength. Further the processing unit determines a ratio of fluorescence corresponding to the background species in the first fluorescence image and the second fluorescence image. The processing unit then multiplies or divides the first fluorescence image with the determined ratio to generate an intermediate image. Subsequently the processing unit reconstructs a background subtracted image by subtracting the intermediate image from the second fluorescence image.

In accordance with certain further aspects of the present disclosure a method for imaging is disclosed. The method includes producing excitation light configured to induce fluorescence emissions in an imaging agent that selectively binds to a target species in a region of interest of a subject where the region of interest comprises the target species and a background species. Further a first spectral region and a second spectral region are selected such that a determined difference between fluorescence corresponding to the target species and the background species in the first spectral region differs from a corresponding difference in the second spectral region. Subsequently a first fluorescence image is generated from the fluorescence emissions corresponding to the first spectral region and a second fluorescence image is generated from the fluorescence emissions corresponding to the second spectral region. Additionally a ratio of fluorescence corresponding to the background species in the first fluorescence image and the second fluorescence image is determined. The first fluorescence image is multiplied or divided with the determined ratio to generate an intermediate image. Further a background subtracted image is reconstructed by subtracting the intermediate image from the second fluorescent image.

The following description presents system and methods for fluorescence imaging for use in open and or minimally invasive surgical MIS procedures. Particularly certain embodiments illustrated herein describe efficient methods and systems that provide significant improvement in suppressing unintentionally labeled background tissues while allowing for reliable identification of targeted biological tissues during fluorescence imaging.

For discussion purposes embodiments of the present system are described with reference to an optical imaging system configured to generate high quality fluorescence images for visualizing a target species for example nerves. However in certain other embodiments the present system may include any other suitable imaging device such as a laparoscope or a hand held device configured to image other targeted species such as tumor margins based on specific implementation requirements. An exemplary environment that is suitable for practicing various implementations of the present systems and methods are described in the following sections with reference to .

To that end in one embodiment a targeted nerve imaging agent that selectively binds for example to myelin basic protein MBP in the nerve tissues may be used for fluorescence guided surgical imaging of nerves. Many of the common surgical sites such as heart and breast regions include a number of myelinated nerves. Further clinically important motor and sensory nerves such as the anterior intercostal nerve as well as the nerves innervating the prostate are myelinated. Improved visualization of the nerve tissues by use of a targeted nerve imaging agent that specifically binds to MBP thus may aid in reducing iatrogenic nerve damage by providing better visualization of nerves and or more accurate guidance both during open surgeries such as cardiovascular and breast cancer surgeries and during minimally invasive procedures.

Myelin however is a complex mixture composed of approximately about 80 lipid fraction and about 20 protein fraction. MBP is a major component of myelin at about 5 15 which translates into about 5 millimolar mM target concentration and satisfies the abundance criterion. Typically conventional imaging agents need to be lipophilic to allow for penetration into the blood nerve barrier. Certain conventional imaging agents thus may bind to unintentionally labeled adipose tissue as well as targeted nerve tissue in the target ROI which in turn may result in incorrect identification further leading to iatrogenic damage. Thus there is a need to discriminate between adipose and nerve fluorescence intraoperatively.

Accordingly certain aspects of the present disclosure allow for use of targeted nerve imaging agents fluorophores that exhibit target abundance high binding affinity and selectivity to the target and an ability to penetrate the blood nerve barrier. To that end the nerve imaging agents may be applied to the surgical site for example using intravenous intraperitoneal subcutaneous intramuscular intrathecal intracerebral intracerebroventricular topical and or intraspinal injections. Certain exemplary nerve imaging agents for use in suppression of nonspecifically labeled species during nerve imaging in accordance with exemplary aspects of the present disclosure have been described in more detail in patent applications US 2010 0310456A1 US 2010 0310457A1 and US 2011 0142759A1 which are herein incorporated in their entirety.

More specifically in one non limiting embodiment the targeted nerve imaging agent for use in visualizing structures of interest in a target region includes for example a compound of Formula I 

In certain embodiments R1 may be a lower alkyl group of about 1 to 6 carbon atoms preferably about 1 to 4 carbon atoms and further including methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl and n s and t butyl.

Further as used herein the term Electron donating group refers to chemical groups that add electron density to the conjugated system making it more nucleophilic. Electron donating groups may be recognized by lone pairs of electrons on an atom adjacent to the system. Examples of electron donating groups include but are not limited to NR R NHR NH NC NH OH OR SR NHCOR OCOR CH and CH CR.

Moreover as used herein the term Electron withdrawing group refers to chemical groups that remove electron density from the conjugated rendering the structure less nucleophilic. Electron withdrawing groups may be recognized either by the atom adjacent to the system having several bonds to more electronegative atoms or having a formal positive charge. Examples of electron withdrawing groups include but are not limited to CHO COR COOR COOH CONH CONHR CONR CF CN C C CN SOH NH NR NO SOR SOR SONH SONHR and SONR.

In one embodiment R2 and R3 may be conjugated through the double bond orbitals of the benzene rings and olefinic substituents thus providing a clear path for electrons to flow from the electron donating group to the electron withdrawing group. The electron donating group may be in the R2 or R3 position as illustrated in Formula I provided that an electron withdrawing group is in the alternative position. This conjugation and push pull electron flow from R2 to R3 as well as R2 to SO2R4 may be responsible for a Stokes shift of a longer wavelength during fluorescence as compared to similar heterocyclic compounds thus allowing for enhanced contrast between myelin and surrounding tissue.

Although a presently contemplated embodiment describes the use of the compound of Formula I certain other embodiments may use other targeted imaging agents that improve visualization of the target species and or minimize background autofluorescence for example. due to collagen elastin Nicotinamide Adenine Dinucleotide plus Hydrogen NADH tissue scattering and or absorption. Additionally in one embodiment absorption and emission of the MBP nerve imaging agent may be shifted to the near infrared NIR fluorescence region to minimize interference from autofluorescence and maximize depth penetration. In certain other embodiments however absorption and emission of the MBP nerve imaging agent may correspond to the visible fluorescence region. Certain embodiments of the present disclosure may entail inducing fluorescence in the MBP nerve imaging agent for generating high quality fluorescence and or color images for example using the exemplary systems illustrated in .

Particularly illustrates an exemplary configuration of an imaging system with one excitation light source and two emission channels for fluorescence imaging. The system in certain embodiments may also include a white light source for use in white light imaging. In one embodiment the source may be configured to produce excitation light for imaging a target region of interest ROI of a subject such as a patient. To that end the source for example may include high power lamps diode lasers and or light emitting diodes LED configured to produce excitation light for inducing fluorescence in an imaging agent that selectively binds to a target species in the ROI of the patient. Further the white light source for example may include a lamp or an LED of a designated power.

In one embodiment the system may use the fluorescence images for discriminating between nerve and adipose tissues for example through spectral unmixing and or ratiometric imaging. To that end in certain embodiments the system may be configured to image the target ROI using a single fluorescence illumination source configured to produce excitation light capable of inducing fluorescence in the MBP imaging agent. In one embodiment the system may further include optical elements such as a beam splitter configured to separate the emitted fluorescence into at least a first spectral region and a second spectral region. Accordingly the optical elements for example may include one or more dichroic filters and or prisms configured to selectively transmit light of one or more desired wavelengths emitted from the surgical site. Particularly in one embodiment the dichroic beam splitter may be configured to separate fluorescence emissions into specific wavelengths corresponding to the first and second spectral regions for detection.

In certain embodiments the first and the second spectral regions may be selected for example using equation 1 112 2 1 where T corresponds to fluorescence of the target species in the first spectral region B corresponds to fluorescence of the background species in the first spectral region T corresponds to fluorescence of the target species in the second spectral region and B corresponds to fluorescence of the background species in the second spectral region.

Accordingly in the embodiment illustrated in the dichroic beam splitter is selected such that the beam splitter separates the fluorescence emissions into the first and second spectral regions based on equation 1 . Although the embodiment illustrated in depicts a single beam splitter in certain embodiments the system may include more than one beam splitter.

Additionally the system may also include other optical devices for example optical filters such as a laser rejection filter an emission filter and or a notch filter lens and or focus and iris adjustments means not shown configured via manual and or automated controls to direct the excitation light and fluorescence emissions through a designated optical path for detection. For example the system may employ various lens designs including but not limited to telephoto retrofocus afocal zoom lens and or optical compensated PanCinor zoom lens for optimizing collection efficiency. Moreover the lens may be configured for varying entrance pupil diameter EPD high zoom ratio and correction for spherical chromatic astigmatism coma field curvature and other aberrations for generating high contrast images from signals corresponding to the resulting fluorescence emissions.

Moreover in one embodiment the system may include a plurality of signal detectors configured to collect the fluorescence emissions corresponding to the first spectral region and the second spectral region from first and second emission channels respectively. In certain embodiments where the system includes the white light source the detectors may be configured to collect corresponding white light signals reflected from the target ROI in at least one of the emission channels for example using time domain multiplexing. In certain embodiments the system may be configured such that a time domain multiplexing of the detectors the white light source and the fluorescence excitation light source may be employed on both emission channels in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure.

Accordingly in one embodiment the detectors may include a lightweight and sensitive CCD array detector configured to employ a time domain multiplexing of the available emission channels. In another embodiment the detectors may include a compact actively cooled electron multiplying charge coupled device EMCCD camera. Other suitable cameras include complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS and scientific CMOS cameras. Additionally in certain embodiments the detectors may be externally triggered for example at twice the frequency of a light source trigger to allow continuous recording of white light and fluorescence images. Furthermore in certain implementations where a fluorescence mode of operation may produce a lower signal level as compared to a white light detection RBG range mode one or more parameters of the detectors may be adjusted to selectively improve fluorescence detection sensitivity and or detector gain.

Further in one embodiment the fluorescence emissions corresponding to the first and second spectral regions collected from the first and second emission channels may be transmitted to a processing unit . Particularly the processing unit may be configured to process the received signals to allow generation of for example fat suppressed images in real time for use during surgical procedures. To that end the processing unit for example may include one or more application specific processors graphical processing units GPUs digital signal processors DSPs microcomputers microcontrollers Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs and or Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs .

Often during imaging imaging agents may bind to a background species different from an intended target species in the target ROI . For example although the MBP imaging agent may be targeted to bind to nerve tissues certain adipose or fat tissues may also be labeled due to a lipophilic nature of the MBP agent. Accordingly the signals received from the first and second emission channels may include erroneous imaging data that may lead to incorrect image reconstruction. During surgical procedures a medical practitioner typically relies on image derived parameters to distinguish between healthy and pathological tissue types. Use of incorrect and unreliable images thus may lead to inaccurate diagnosis incorrect treatment and or result in iatrogenic damage to patient tissues.

Accordingly embodiments of the present disclosure allow for processing of the fluorescence emissions corresponding to the first and second spectral regions by the processing unit for reliable identification of imaging data corresponding to unintentionally labeled background species for example fat tissues. The processing unit may then use the identification information to improve visualization of the target species for example nerves by suppressing the fat tissues in the resulting background subtracted images.

To that end in one embodiment the processing unit may be configured to generate first and second raw fluorescence images from the emissions corresponding to the first and second spectral regions respectively. Further the unintentionally labeled fat tissues common to both the first and second raw fluorescent images may be identified. In one example the fat tissues may be identified using an automated analysis of the first and second raw fluorescence images. Alternatively the fat tissues may be identified based on user input received via one or more input devices operatively coupled to the processing unit . The input devices for example may include a keyboard touchscreen microphone mouse buttons and or switches for receiving commands and inputs from an operator for example to identify the target ROI the background species the target species and or other imaging information. The processing subsystem may also allow the operator to make selections for example using a graphical user interface GUI on a local or remote display device communicatively coupled to the processing unit .

Once the fat tissues are identified the processing unit may determine a ratio of fluorescence corresponding to the fat tissues in the first and the second fluorescence images. Further the processing unit may multiply or divide the first fluorescence image with the determined ratio to generate an intermediate fat equalized image that may then be subtracted from the second fluorescence image to reconstruct a high quality fat suppressed image. In embodiments where the system includes use of white and or visible light the processing unit may also reconstruct for example an anatomic image and or color video of the target ROI .

The processing unit may transmit one or more of such fat suppressed images and or video to the display device for example for use in fluorescence image guided surgery. Accordingly in certain embodiments the processing unit may allow co registration of the anatomic image with fat suppressed fluorescence images in real time for display over a common spatial coordinate system. The medical practitioner may use one or more of such fat suppressed images for making an accurate assessment of the pathological condition of the patient and or for carefully guiding surgical devices through the patient anatomy in real time.

It may be noted that illustrates a specific embodiment of the system with certain exemplary components for use in generating fluorescence and or visible images. Other embodiments however may include different configurations of the system including fewer or more components than those illustrated in . for example illustrates an alternative embodiment of the system using single emission and multiple excitation approach for generating high fidelity fat suppressed images. To that end that system may employ a single camera or detector for collecting white light and or fluorescence emissions. The system further may include at least two fluorescence illumination sources and configured to produce multiple excitations for producing corresponding fluorescence emissions.

In one embodiment the source may be a laser diode configured to produce a first excitation wavelength whereas the source may be another light source configured to produce a second excitation wavelength. In certain embodiments at least two excitation wavelengths are selected for example using equation 1 . Particularly the two excitation wavelengths may be selected such that a determined difference between fluorescence corresponding to the target species and the background species emitted in response to the first excitation wavelength differs from a corresponding difference in fluorescence emitted in response to the second excitation wavelength. Accordingly in the embodiment illustrated in the system may not include a dichroic beam splitter such as illustrated in the embodiments of . Instead the system may employ time domain multiplexing to allow the detector to collect the fluorescence emissions corresponding to the first and the second excitation wavelengths in a time interleaved manner from alternating frames.

In certain embodiments the system may further include the white light source such as an LED for imaging the target ROI . Accordingly the system may employ time domain multiplexing of the single emission channel to collect the fluorescence emissions corresponding to the first and the second excitation wavelengths and white light alternately one after the other in three consequent frames. To that end in one embodiment the sources and may be triggered in a synchronously alternating or out of phase fashion at the same frequency such that at a given time the detector may record data corresponding to one of the first fluorescence image the second fluorescence image and the white light image.

Further in certain embodiments the recorded data may be processed by the processing unit for example as previously discussed with reference to for subsequent display on the display device and or for further evaluation of a pathological condition of the subject. The embodiment of the system illustrated in thus may allow for reduction in equipment cost and size. Accordingly the system may be used in not only in larger bench top open surgical instruments but also telescopic instruments such as an endoscope a laparoscope and or a handheld imaging device used during MIS procedures.

Further illustrate exemplary configurations of an imaging system similar to the system of respectively for implementing efficient data acquisition and fat suppression procedures in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure. In certain embodiments the system includes a single fluorescence illumination source a 460 nm single edge dichroic beam splitter 410 450 nm and 510 590 nm single band interference filters and a plurality of detectors for imaging a target ROI of the patient. Particularly in one embodiment the source may include a high power laser diode configured to emit excitation light at a desired wavelength for example of about 405 nanometer nm so as to allow for maximum absorption of the specific MBP imaging agent being used. The excitation light strikes the target ROI and causes emission of fluorescent signals from the target ROI .

Further in the dichroic beam splitter for example including a 460 nm single edge filter may be configured to separate the fluorescence emissions into a first and a second spectral region. In one embodiment the first spectral region corresponds to wavelengths from about 410 nm to about 450 nm whereas the second spectral region corresponds to wavelengths from about 510 nm to about 590 nm. In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure the first and the second spectral regions may be selected such that one or more spectroscopic properties of a target species such as nerves and a unintentionally labeled background species such as fat differs in the two spectral regions. The emissions corresponding to the two spectral regions may be received in two emission channels and is subsequently processed to allow for discrimination between the nerve and the fat tissues in real or near real time for example as previously discussed with reference to .

In certain embodiments the system may further include a white light source similar to the white light source of . In such embodiments the detectors may be configured to collect corresponding white light signals reflected from the target ROI along with fluorescence emissions corresponding to either the first or the second spectral region in one of the emission channels for example using time domain multiplexing. In certain embodiments the system may be configured such that a time domain multiplexing of the detectors white light source and fluorescence excitation light source may be employed on both emission channels in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure.

Particularly in one embodiment use of the different excitation wavelengths may allow fluorescence emissions for example corresponding to single spectral bandwidth of about 410 600 nm and or 410 nm long pass spectral bandwidth. In certain embodiments at least two excitation wavelengths are selected such that a determined difference between fluorescence corresponding to the target species and the background species emitted in response to the first excitation wavelength differs from a corresponding difference in fluorescence emitted in response to the second excitation wavelength. Further the system may employ time domain multiplexing to allow the detector to collect the fluorescence emissions corresponding to the first and second excitation wavelengths in a time interleaved manner from alternating frames.

In certain embodiments the system may further include the white light source for imaging the target ROI. Accordingly the system may employ time domain multiplexing of the single emission channel to collect the fluorescence emissions corresponding to the first and the second excitation wavelengths and white light alternately one after the other in three consequent frames. To that end the sources and may be triggered in a synchronously alternating or out of phase fashion at the same frequency such that at a given time the detector may record data corresponding to one of the first fluorescence image the second fluorescence image and the white light image.

As previously discussed with reference to in certain embodiments the recorded data may be processed for example using the processing unit of for reconstruction of fat suppressed images for subsequent display and or analysis. Use of the fat suppressed images may allow for real time tissue characterization during open and or MIS surgeries.

Generally fluorescence images may provide additional functional information through auto fluorescence of endogenous NADH flavin adenine dinucleotide FAD elastins collagens or porphyrins useful during surgical procedures. However during MIS procedures real time surgical guidance is of great significance for preventing iatrogenic nerve damage and or for providing indicating information about dynamic processes such as relating to change in imaging agent concentration evolving in the target ROI of the patient. White light images may provide navigational cues for aiding in real time guidance during surgical procedures. Accordingly in certain embodiments the system may benefit from a dedicated white light or red green blue RGB emission channel not shown in .

Further in one embodiment the white light source may include an LED configured to produce excitation light for use in generating white light and or color images. The white light source may be configured to operate under computer control external trigger from an associated processing subsystem such as the processing unit of and or based on user input for generating white light images. Moreover in certain embodiments the white light source may be configured to generate white light corresponding to a wavelength different from the wavelengths in the first and second spectral regions used for fluorescent imaging.

As previously noted in one embodiment the excitation light generated by the fluorescence illumination source causes fluorescence emissions from the target ROI . The fluorescence emissions separated into the first and second spectral region are collected by the detectors using the first and the second emission channels. The collected signals corresponding to the first and second spectral region may then be used to generate fat suppressed images as described with reference to in accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure.

Additionally the light emitted from the target ROI in response to the white light generated by the white light source may be collected by the dedicated white light camera . The collected white light signals may be transmitted to the processing unit for reconstructing white light images. Further in certain embodiments composite white light images may be generated based on relative contributions from each of the detectors for example corresponding to spectral regions 410 450 nm and 510 590 nm.

Use of the dedicated white light channel in addition to multiple fluorescence emission channels allows for minimizing impact of spectral overlapping between fluorescence and white light channels thus obtaining high fidelity images on all three channels. As previously noted in certain embodiments the high fidelity white light images may be displayed on a display along with the raw and or fat suppressed fluorescence images over a common spatial coordinate system for use in diagnosis and or device navigation.

In contrast to the embodiment illustrated in that depicts use of the dedicated white light camera illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the system of that may be configured to implement one or more white light channels without use of a dedicated white light camera. To that end the system may employ for example a time interleaved detection illumination scheme. Particularly the system may be configured to use time domain multiplexing on one of the emission channels for capturing white light and fluorescent images in alternative frames. By way of example in one embodiment the system may be configured to capture a white light image and a fluorescent image corresponding to the second spectral region from the second detector in alternative frames using synchronized laser and white light illumination. In this embodiment the first detector may be configured to collect fluorescence emissions corresponding to only the first spectral region. The two fluorescent images may then be processed as described with reference to for reconstructing fat suppressed images of the target ROI.

Further illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a minimally invasive laparoscope which is similar to the system illustrated in and is configured to employ time domain multiplexing of a single emission channel. To that end the laparoscope may include a single triple mode camera configured to collect three images for example two fluorescence and one white light image in a single emission channel using time domain multiplexing.

Use of the triple mode camera thus allows for efficient data acquisition from the different illumination sources . The efficient data acquisition in turn may allow for reconstruction of fluorescence and or white light images at a near video rate such that the images may be displayed in real time. To that end the two light sources and may be triggered in a synchronously alternating or out of phase fashion at the same frequency such that at a given time the detector may record one of the first fluorescence image the second fluorescence image and the white light image. Certain exemplary methods for generating fat suppressed images in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure will be described in greater detail with reference to .

Further in the exemplary method is illustrated as a collection of blocks in a logical flow chart which represents operations that may be implemented in hardware software or combinations thereof. The various operations are depicted in the blocks to illustrate the functions that are performed for example during fluorescence image generation ratio determination and image reconstruction phases of the exemplary method. In the context of software the blocks represent computer instructions that when executed by one or more processing subsystems perform the recited operations.

The order in which the exemplary method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described blocks may be combined in any order to implement the exemplary method disclosed herein or an equivalent alternative method. Additionally certain blocks may be deleted from the exemplary method or augmented by additional blocks with added functionality without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. For discussion purposes the exemplary method will be described with reference to the elements of .

As previously noted surgical procedures including MIS may cause iatrogenic damage. Accordingly clinically there is a significant demand to enhance the capabilities of surgical devices specifically MIS devices through the integration of in situ in vivo functional capabilities to provide improved tissue characterization and targeting at both macro and cellular levels. One of the recent advances in biophotonics for MIS is the introduction of fluorescence imaging for real time tissue characterization. As MIS aids in reducing patient trauma improving therapeutic outcome and or faster post operative recovery MIS is increasingly used in various surgical procedures.

For example during laparoscopic prostatectomy a laparoscope may be inserted through small incisions to allow surgeons to visualize inside the abdomen and perform the surgery. However despite measures to spare nerves during MIS nerve damage commonly occurs. Often the nerve damage is a result of unintentional labeling of a background species such as fat tissues by an imaging agent which leads to inaccurate images. Given the emerging utility of MIS in various surgical scenarios and a persistently high incidence of complications from nerve damage surgery outcomes may be improved through high fidelity fat suppressed fluorescence imaging of nerves using embodiments of the present method.

To that end at step excitation light configured to induce fluorescence emissions in an imaging agent that selectively binds to MBP applied to a ROI of a subject may be produced where the ROI includes a target species and a background species. In one embodiment the target species includes nerve tissues and the background species includes fat tissues. Moreover as previously noted in one embodiment the imaging agent may include a compound of Formula I although alternative embodiments may employ other suitable imaging agents.

In certain embodiments where an associated imaging system such as the system of includes a single excitation multiple emission approach the excitation light may be generated using a single fluorescence illumination source such as the source of . In such an embodiment the system may further include a dichroic beam splitter for example the dichroic filter of FIG. A configured to separate the fluorescence emissions received from the target ROI in response to the excitation light into first and second spectral regions.

However in embodiments where the imaging system such as the system of employs a single emission multiple excitation approach more than one illumination source may be employed to produce at least two excitation wavelengths for inducing fluorescence emissions corresponding to a first excitation wavelength and a second excitation wavelength in the imaging agent.

As previously noted with reference to both at step the first and the second spectral regions and or excitation wavelengths may be selected such that a determined difference between fluorescence corresponding to the target species and the background species emitted in response to the first excitation wavelength or corresponding to the first spectral region differs from a corresponding difference in fluorescence corresponding to the second excitation wavelength or second spectral region. In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure the difference in spectroscopic properties for example fluorescence of the target species such as nerves and an unintentionally labeled background species such as fat in the two spectral regions may be used for differentiating between the nerve and fat tissues more reliably.

Additionally in certain embodiments the system may also include a white light source for providing white and or visible light illumination. Particularly in one embodiment the system may employ a dedicated white light camera and or use time domain multiplexing of one or more emission channels to allow collection of both white light and fluorescent images for use in real time device tracking and or diagnosis.

Further at step a first fluorescence image may be generated from the fluorescence emissions corresponding to the first spectral region or the first excitation wavelength and a second fluorescence image may be generated from the fluorescence emissions corresponding to the second spectral region or the second excitation wavelength. Additionally at step location of the background species such as unintentionally labeled fat tissue may be identified in the first and second fluorescent images. As previously noted in one embodiment the location of the fat tissues may be identified through an automated analysis of the fluorescence images. Alternatively the fat tissues may be identified through user input for example received via a GUI indicating the background species in the first and second fluorescent images displayed on a display such as the display device of .

Further at step a ratio of fluorescence corresponding to the fat tissues identified in the first and the second fluorescence images may be determined. At step the first fluorescence image may be multiplied or divided with the determined ratio to generate an intermediate image. In one embodiment the intermediate image may correspond to a fluorescence image that includes a substantially similar amount of fat as present in the second fluorescence image. Subsequently at step a background subtracted image may be reconstructed by subtracting the intermediate image from the second fluorescence image.

Since the multiplication or division operation described in step leads to equalization of fat in the intermediate and the second fluorescence images in one embodiment the subsequent subtraction operation of step cancels out the fat tissues in the resulting image. The background subtracted image thus exhibits high nerve to fat ratio by substantially eliminating the unintentionally labeled fat tissues while improving visualization of the targeted nerve tissues. Such high quality fat suppressed images may be used for medical diagnosis prescribing treatment and or for device tracking in real time during MIS procedures with greater reliability.

Certain images generated using an exemplary implementation of the present method described with reference to and implemented by embodiments of the system depicted in are illustrated in respectively. Particularly illustrates raw fluorescence images and generated using emission signals corresponding to the first and the second spectral region respectively. also illustrates a white light image of the target ROI generated using the system of . further illustrates a fat suppressed image generated using an embodiment of the present method such as described with reference to . As illustrated in both the raw fluorescence images and the white light image show sufficient nerve visualization although the fat tissues are visualized with even higher contrast due to unintentional binding of the imaging agent.

It may be noted that in the exemplary implementation raw fluorescence images corresponding to the first and second spectral regions or excitation wavelengths were acquired using a color camera. The acquired images were separated into Red Green Blue RGB channels. Specifically the images were split to generate the first fluorescence image on the green channel corresponding to the wavelengths 510 590 nm in the first spectral region or the first excitation wavelength and the second fluorescence images on the blue channel corresponding to the wavelengths 410 450 nm in the second spectral region or the second excitation wavelength.

Although a color camera was used in the present implementation an alternative embodiment may employ a monochrome camera. The raw fluorescence images generated by the monochrome camera may then be used directly for generating fat suppressed images. Use of the digital solution described with reference to steps of for processing the raw fluorescent images and thus allowed for automated generation of fat suppressed images for use during surgery in real time. In certain embodiments the digital solution may provide clean fluorescence images including only the nerve tissue.

Similarly illustrates raw fluorescence images and generated using emission signals corresponding to the first and the second excitation wavelengths respectively. further illustrates a fat suppressed image generated using a digital solution such as described with reference to . As illustrated in the fat tissues were substantially suppressed in the image as compared to the raw fluorescence images and .

Particularly in the exemplary implementation the digital solution provided significant improvements in nerve to fat ratio at a low power level for example about 54 mW at a medium power level for example about 69 mW and at a high power level for example about 76 mW . Such improvement in nerve visualization regardless of the power levels is because in the digital solution the signal in any of the channels may be digitally scaled by a certain number to make the fat signal the same in the two channels. As previously noted the ratio between fat in the two raw fluorescence images corresponding to different spectral regions may be used as an efficient scaling factor for efficient fat suppression in the resulting images.

Use of embodiments of systems and methods of the present disclosure thus allow for generation of high fidelity fat suppressed images in real time during a medical procedure. The high fidelity real time images aid the medical practitioner in making accurate assessments regarding patient pathology while also providing reliable navigational cues during MIS procedures. As previously noted embodiments of the present disclosure allow for efficient fat suppression using automated digital means regardless of the power levels. The efficient fat suppression enhances efficiency of fluorophores that specifically label biological targets and have favorable biological and chemical properties but may have been eliminated earlier from the development pipeline owing to inadequate SBR.

Particularly both the single excitation multiple emission approach and the single emission multiple excitation approach provide efficient acquisition and fat suppression procedures that may be implemented in both a bench top open surgical instrument and a compact hand held and or minimally invasive device. Additionally use of a white light channel allows for generation of white light and or color images for use in real time navigation. Moreover in both approaches use of time domain multiplexing for collecting the white light and fluorescent images substantially simultaneously aids in reducing system size and associated costs thus making implementation of the present methods and systems in small minimally invasive devices feasible.

Although specific features of various embodiments of the present systems and methods may be shown in and or described with respect to only certain drawings and not in others this is for convenience only. It is to be understood that the described features structures and or characteristics may be combined and or used interchangeably in any suitable manner in the various embodiments for example to construct additional assemblies and techniques. Furthermore the foregoing examples demonstrations and process steps for example those that may be performed by the processing unit may be implemented by a single device or a plurality of devices using suitable code on a processor based system.

It should also be noted that different implementations of the present disclosure may perform some or all of the steps described herein in different orders or substantially concurrently that is in parallel. In addition the functions may be implemented in a variety of programming languages including but not limited to Python C Java and or Labview. Such code may be stored or adapted for storage on one or more tangible machine readable media such as on data repository chips local or remote hard disks optical disks that is CDs or DVDs solid state drives or other media which may be accessed by a processor based system to execute the stored code.

While only certain features of the present invention have been illustrated and described herein many modifications and changes will occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

