---

title: Providing users access to applications during video communications
abstract: The present disclosure, in some implementations comprises systems and methods for providing applications during video communication, via online communities or services, for example, social networks. Video communication may be video conferencing or “video chat” sessions among a plurality of users of the online services. Users may engage in a video conference or “video chat,” yet at the same time, use or obtain different applications, designated as either “personal” or “shared” applications. A “personal” application is one that does not involve others and is configured to enhance an individual user's personal experience during a group video communication. A “shared” application is one that involves at least one of multiple users during a group video communication, for example, users may participate in a card or trivia game, watch videos together, collaborate and share documents, or the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503683&OS=09503683&RS=09503683
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09503683
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121231
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 616 405 entitled Providing Users Access to Applications During Video Communications filed on Mar. 27 2012. The entire contents of the provisional application are incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates to video communication between users of online communities or services for example social networks. In particular the present disclosure relates to group video communication sessions among multiple users for example via video conferencing or a group video chat during which users have access to either personal or shared applications or both that may be provided by third parties and executed by any or all of the users during the video communication sessions.

The popularity of electronic communications in particular via online communities or services for example social networks has grown dramatically over the years. More recently some social networks provide video communication or live exchanges between multiple users in real time. One social network creates a virtual facility or room for multiple users to communicate in for example to hangout and video chat. 

A hangout is a video conference that is used via a social network that may be shared with a large number of users specific groups of users or specific users. The video conference is easily started and operated within the browser without downloading and installing software on a user s computer except perhaps a quick browser plugin as a result of which everything works seamlessly within the web browser. A user clicks within the social network to launch a video conference with other users which functionality is seamlessly delivered to the users. A user can invite specific people to join a group video chat and anyone who joins may in turn share a URL uniform resource locator or web address and invite yet others to join. Although participant identifications appear in all of the participants streams such gatherings are not public.

Existing technology recognizes who is speaking during such a video conferencing session and that person s image appears on a primary display window while other participants appear in smaller display windows. Thus with a browser based solution and with the ability to connect more than just two sites real time video conferencing has become more ubiquitous.

This virtual facility with a group video communication session may be broadcast to yet other users of the social network who may participate as either spectators or viewers. The viewing occurs over a live stream like watching a webinar or a live concert online. A user who is a spectator or viewer may have the option to join and participate in the virtual facility or simply elect to just watch or listen without joining.

To further enhance the ongoing trends in video communication it would certainly be beneficial to find ways to access applications provided by third parties for both personal and shared use to enhance group video communications.

The present disclosure overcomes the deficiencies and limitations of the prior art. In some embodiments the technology comprises systems and methods for providing or obtaining applications during video communication sessions via online communities or services for example social networks. Video communication may be video conferencing or video chat sessions among a plurality of users of the online services also referred to as hangouts. Users may launch or engage in a video conference or video chat session yet at the same time use or obtain different applications designated as either personal or shared applications. A personal application is one that does not involve others and is configured to enhance an individual user s personal experience during a group video communication. A personal application is an extension which may for example be an application to add video and audio effects perform translation of the content take notes etc. A shared application is one that involves multiple other users during a group video communication session for example users may participate in a card or trivia game view videos together collaborate and share documents or the like.

In addition in some embodiments the systems and methods of the present technology obtain both personal and shared applications by launching a video conference or video chat session with a special URL uniform resource locator or web address which loads the personal or shared application into the video conference or video chat session and registers the video conference or video chat session to the user. This method advantageously permits application developers to enable users to share and launch applications facilitating a viral distribution of applications.

In yet other embodiments the systems and methods of the present technology are configured to obtain both shared and personal applications during a live video communication exchange or session among users where a user can operate multiple personal applications concurrently. The systems and methods provide a user interface configuration with a primary designation to a particular user in order to permit the particular user to use or join a video communication session and have quick and easy access to his or her personal applications. The systems and method enable personal applications or extensions within a group video communication session by allowing a developer of the personal applications for example a third party developer to specify its application and register it with the social network or online service via which users participate in video communication sessions. Once registered with the social network or the online service in some embodiments of the technology the user interface is configured with a smaller pane within the video communication facility or room. The personal application is loaded into the smaller pane so that it does not interfere with the main video feed or shared application. Multiple shared applications in a group video communication session may operate at one time. A user may decide to engage in a single application or a plurality of applications sequentially.

In still other embodiments the systems and methods of the present technology keep track of the list of shared applications operating and the users involved in each. This data is also displayed to users in an Apps Pane in a user interface of the group video communications session permitting users to conveniently switch between shared applications or load a new application as desired. The systems and methods of the present technology inform all users when a new application is loaded and provides each user with a record of all applications used in the past a capability to indicate favorite applications or pin them.

In yet other embodiments of the present technology a list of both personal and shared applications may be obtained from a list of featured applications maintained by the social network or online community.

Shared applications may also be discovered by users within a hangout by viewing which applications are in use by others in a particular hangout. This association may be detected by application specific markings within the filmstrip or participant specific markings within the Apps directory.

Shared applications may also be discovered through the use of a Most Recently Used list MRU . This may be a list of applications accessible to all users in a particular hangout. This list may include a union of all shared applications that have been used by all the participants in the particular hangout. There may or may not be a limit to the number of applications included in this list.

In some implementations personal applications may be private. For example the visibility of the application can be blocked. In some implementations personal applications may transmit communications along a primary channel. Shared applications may transmit communications along a primary channel and provide a secondary channel for other communications.

Users obtain both personal and shared applications by launching a group video communication via a special URL which loads the application into the group video communication and registers it to the user. A user may operate multiple personal applications. A special primary designation in the user interface display to a user permits the user to use or join a video communication and have easy access to his or her personal applications. The systems and methods maintain a list of shared applications and the users involved in each is maintained which list is displayed to users and permits users to conveniently switch between shared applications or load a new application. The system and method informs all users when a new application is loaded and provides each user with a record of all applications used in the past a capability to indicate favorite applications etc.

In one embodiment the invention comprises a system and method for providing personal and shared applications. Specifically the invention comprises a system and method for providing personal and shared applications to a video conference. For example multiple users are engaged in a video conference and use different applications. A personal application is an application that does not include a necessity to involve others in the video conference e.g. applications to add video and audio effects perform translation of the content take notes etc. . A shared application is used by multiple people in the video conference e.g. a card game a trivia game shared video watching document collaboration etc. .

In one embodiment the system obtains both personal and shared application via launching a video conference with a special URL that loads the application into the video conference and registers the video conference to that user.

In one embodiment the system includes a method for sharing both shared and personal application via the video conference. For example a first user shares a shared application with a second user and the second user registers that application under his user account. The system also includes a method for determining applications that have been used previously.

In some examples the specification describes systems and methods for group video communication sessions for users of an online community or service for example social networks during which users may access applications provided by third party developers either for personal or shared use or both. By way of one example an application may be a web application that may be accessed over a network such as the internet or the intranet. The term as used here also refers to a computer software application that is coded in a browser supported language for example JavaScript combined with a browser rendered markup language like HTML and reliant on a common web browser to render the application executable.

In some embodiments the social network server is coupled to the network via a signal line . The social network server includes the social network application which includes the software routines application programming interface API etc. to operate the social network hosted on the social network server . Although only one social network server is described here persons of ordinary skill in the art should recognize that multiple servers may be present as illustrated by social network servers through each with functionality similar to social network server or different.

The term social network as used here encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to any type of social structure where the users are connected by a common feature or link. The common feature includes relationships connections e.g. friendship family work a similar interest etc. The common features are provided by one or more social networking systems such as those included in the system including explicitly defined relationships and relationships implied by social connections with other online users where the relationships form a social graph .

The term social graph as used here encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to a set of online relationships between users such as provided by one or more social networking systems such as social network system including explicitly defined relationships and relationships implied by social connections with other online users where the relationships form a social graph. In some examples the social graph may reflect a mapping of these users and how they are related.

It should be understood that social network server and the social network application are representative of a single social network. Each of the plurality of social network servers through is coupled to a network each having its own server application and social graph. For example a first social network may be directed to business networking a second directed to or centered on academics a third directed to local business a fourth directed to dating and yet others directed to other general interests or perhaps a specific focus.

The system is accessed by user devices through that are variously used by users through . These entities are coupled to communicate via the network . Although only two user devices through are illustrated in persons of ordinary skill in the art should recognize that any numbers of user devices may be used by any number of users . Moreover those skilled in the art should recognize that while the present disclosure is described below primarily in the context of social networks the present disclosure may be applicable to any type of online communications via any online communities or services including search engines.

The user devices through in are illustrated by way of example. Although illustrates only two devices the present disclosure applies to any system architecture having one or more user devices therefore any number of user devices may be used. Furthermore while only one network is illustrated as coupled to the user devices through and the social network servers in practice any number of networks may be connected to these entities. In addition illustrates a profile server a web server and third party servers through coupled via the network . The system may include one or more third party servers . In addition although only one profile server and web server are illustrated any number of profile servers or web servers may be included in a distributed or other architecture. The profile server stores profile data on each of the users within the social network servers through . The web server may either be hardware one or more computer systems or software the computer application or both that helps to deliver content that may be accessed via the internet. Web servers typically host online services for any purpose including data storage gaming etc.

The user devices through can be a computing device for example a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile email device a portable game player a portable music player a television with one or more processors embedded therein or coupled thereto or any other electronic device capable of accessing a network.

The network is of conventional type either wired or wireless and may have any number of configurations such as a star configuration token ring configuration or other configurations known to those skilled in the art. Furthermore the network may comprise a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and or any other interconnected data path across which one or more devices may communicate.

In another embodiment the network may be a peer to peer network. The network may also be coupled to or include portions of one or more telecommunications networks for sending data in a variety of different communication protocols.

In yet another embodiment the network includes Bluetooth communication networks or a cellular communications network for sending and receiving data such as via short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP email etc.

The social network server comprises the social network application the video communication application module and the social graph all of which are configured to seamlessly deliver video communication functionalities to users hosted by the social network server and to seamlessly provide access to applications provided by one or more third party servers through . Each of the third party servers through may provide applications facilitated by the social network servers through by loading an arbitrary web page contained in an IFRAME within the area enclosed or room created by the group video communication session. The underlying program of the social network servers through also provides a Java file which may be used by those web pages to set up two way communication through a defined API application programming interface across the IFRAME border which permits the web page designed as a web application to interact with the user interface of the social network server through . Each of the user devices through coupled to the network via signal line is illustrated with a user video communication application module to indicate aspects of the video communication that reside in the user devices through

Referring now to an example of the video communication application module of the social network servers through is coupled to the user device over signal line which also couples the video communication application module to other hardware components of the social network server

The social network server includes one or more processors each comprising an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and provide electronic display signals to the user device . The processor is coupled to a bus for communication with the other hardware components. The processor processes data signals and may comprise various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. As indicated above although only a single processor is shown in a plurality of processors may be used. The social network server also includes a memory and a display which communicate with the user s device via a graphic adapter a data storage and a communication unit . It should be obvious to one skilled in the art that other processors operating systems sensors displays and physical configurations may be used to perform the functionalities and operations instead of the ones described here.

The memory stores instructions and or data that may be executed by processor . The memory is coupled to bus for communication with the other hardware components illustrated. The instructions and or data may comprise code for performing any and or all of the techniques described here. The memory may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory device known in the art.

In some embodiments data storage stores data information and instructions relating to the users. Such stored information includes information about the users and other information retrieved by activity stream input via line . In one embodiment the data storage also stores data and other information utilized by the social network server through . Data storage is a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media such as a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device known in the art for storing information on a more permanent basis. The data storage is coupled by the bus for communication with the other components of servers and including the social network application .

It should be noted that any information that is retrieved for particular users is only upon obtaining the necessary permissions from the users in order to protect user privacy and any sensitive information of the users.

The communication unit includes a network adapter that interfaces with the network and other components. It includes ports for wired connectivity for example USB SD or CAT 5 etc. The communication unit functions as an interface module to link the processor to the network which in turn may be coupled to other processing systems. The communication unit provides other conventional connections to the network using standard network protocols such as TCP IP HTTP HTTPS and SMTP as should be understood to those skilled in the art. In other embodiments the communication unit includes a transceiver for sending and receiving signals using WiFi Bluetooth or cellular communications for wireless communication.

Referring now to an example video communication application module comprises a plurality of different modules including software routines and instructions that form the framework for executing the applications for users during group video communication sessions. The applications may be either personal or shared. Personal applications are those that a particular user for example user may enjoy to enhance his or her video communication experience. A particular user may execute any number of personal applications via a personal application launching module . By way of example personal applications include Effects which render graphics i.e. hats and audio i.e. head slaps or a note taking application. These personal applications may be executed concurrently on the user s device . Alternatively or in addition to launching a personal application a user may execute and share an application with another user via a shared application launching module . Either of the personal application or the shared application selected by the particular user is displayed on the user device via a user interface display module . An application organization module sorts and organizes a history of the application launched by the user. An application sharing module facilitates sharing between two or more users. In all instances a permission module oversees sharing of applications between users to ensure that all privacy requirements are maintained. A user connection module uses connections with other users for video communication. For example the particular user may simply open a chat window in his or her account associated with the social network or email account linked or associated with the social network click on the Options menu provided and choose Add voice video chat which guides the user through a one time installation of a free plug in for example a quick 2 MB download . The user may then re open his or her email account and note that the Options link in the chat window has changed to Video more . Upon opening this menu and clicking on the Start video chat the user should be able to see and hear his or her partner the party called in high quality video. By manipulating the video the user may enlarge the video and change its size and position or switch to a full screen display.

The video communication application module includes applications that communicate over the software communication mechanism . The software communication mechanism may be an object bus such as CORBA direct socket communication such as TCP IP sockets among software modules remote procedure calls UDP broadcasts and receipts HTTP connections function or procedure calls etc. Further any or all of the communication could be secure SSH HTTPS etc. . The software communication can be implemented on any underlying hardware such as a network the Internet a bus a combination thereof etc.

From block the method also proceeds to block at which point the method provides one or more shared applications to multiple users engaged in a group video communication. Shared applications are designed to involve other users. By way of example most or all of the multiple users engaged in a group video communication session may participate in an activity. By way of example shared applications may be a card or trivia game watching or viewing video document collaboration or the like.

The method proceeds at block to a stage where either personal or shared applications for multiple users engaged in a group video communication are launched. For the personal applications that are launched only the individual users may view these as illustrated by block . Viewing of the personal applications are blocked or restricted from viewing by other users only permitting the individual user who launched or used a personal application to view it.

The applications that are selected by the users engaged in a group video communication are recorded creating an application history which is displayed to the users as illustrated by block . The method proceeds to block at which point communication between users sharing an application is established for the purpose of participating in a shared activity for example playing a card game. Similarly the individual user is provided access to one or more of the personal applications desired by the particular user.

The method proceeds to block at which point users are provided with user interface features which may be any of a variety such as providing the users with a capability to designate or pin a favorite application or the like.

At block the method provides a link from a webpage which by way of one example may contain a specifically crafted URL for a registered application. The method proceeds to block at which point a group video communication is created which directly loads the registered application. Once a registered application is launched at block the registered application is added to a user list of recently used applications. The URL may launch a group video communication or hangout with the specific application loaded. This capability to launch an application is an important viral discovery feature because the URL may be published anywhere on the World Wide Web WWW . In addition the URL is configured to add the application to each user s history so that it may be easily browsed by other users. This again is a viral discovery feature. A catalog of applications provides access to a list of registered applications and to combined user histories which may include applications loaded via a URL for a specific application App URL . At block the user is provided designations to indicate a favorite application or pin an application.

Referring now to in one example each user engaged in a group video communication is presented with a user interface. illustrates generally one example of a user interface . It should be recognized that a user interface may be configured in other ways. The illustrated example shows a user interface for a particular user within a display panel having a display window or screen . The display panel indicates a plurality of tabs or buttons and to indicate that the other users are engaged in the group video communication session. To the right of the display panel designations indicate examples of a shared application for example a card game at a personal application at for example for video audio effects a shared application at for example for shared video viewing and another shared application at for example for document collaboration.

Referring now to an example of a user interface is illustrated at with a shared application. The shared application is a card game in which users and are participants. User is illustrated in a display window or screen and user is illustrated in a display window or screen . Other users and who are not engaged in this game are illustrated in an appropriate location for example the bottom of the user interface in display windows and respectively. The other applications and are displayed on the side panel where users user user user and user user are indicated in order with an indication of the time duration that the particular application has been in use. For example the shared application for facilitating shared video viewing has been in use for two hours illustrated by reference numeral . Similarly the personal application for creating video audio effects is illustrated by reference numeral with an indication of the time duration that the personal application has been in use for example one day. Another example of a shared application for document collaboration illustrated by reference numeral is illustrated with an indication of the time duration that the shared application is in use for example 30 days.

Referring now to a graphical representation of one example of a user interface indicating a personal application is illustrated. The personal application illustrates a video audio effect illustrated by circles appearing in the display window to enhance the particular user s experience. The user is displayed in a display window . At the bottom other users and engaged in the group video communication appear in display windows and respectively.

Referring to a graphical representation illustrating an example of a group video communication between six users for example through is illustrated. This example illustrates by way of example users and engaged in a shared application for example viewing or watching a video. Video communication occurs along a primary communication channel and the shared activity occurs along the communication line with communication channel shown in broken lines used for other communications. The circle in broken lines around these two users and illustrates the shared participation by these users in a shared application. In the example illustrated user is engaged in the personal application of enhancing his or her experience with video audio effects. This solitary exercise which excludes other users is illustrated by the broken lines surrounding user . Video communication between user and the other users in this group video communication forum facility or room flows along the communication channel illustrated by line . Yet another example illustrates that users and are engaged in a shared application for example the card game where communication concerning the shared activity takes over the video communication flow along the primary channel and any other communication flows along the secondary channel .

In the preceding description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are indicated in order to provide a thorough understanding of the technology described. It should be apparent however to one skilled in the art that this technology can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the technology. For example the present technology is described with some embodiments indicated above that reference user interfaces and particular hardware. However the present technology applies to and includes any type of computing device that is configured to receive data and commands and any devices providing services. Moreover the present technology is described above primarily in the context of group video communication sessions between users of an online community or service however those skilled in the art should understand that the present technology applies to any type of group video communication sessions and may be used for other video communication applications other than social networks. In particular group video communication sessions in an online service permit access to personal and shared applications.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment or some embodiments means simply that one or more particular features structures or characteristics described in connection with the one or more embodiments is included in at least one or more embodiments that are described. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that are above are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory of either one or more computing devices. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm as indicated here and generally is conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be understood however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the preceding discussion it should be appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present technology also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations described here. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer or a mobile device for example a phone or tablet selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer or mobile device. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memories including USB keys with non volatile memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

This technology can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software components. In some embodiments the technology is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the technology can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code includes at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Communication units include network adapters which may also be coupled to the system to enable them to couple to other data processing systems remote printers or storage devices through one or more of either intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few examples of the currently available types of network adapters.

Finally the algorithms and displays presented in this application are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings here or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems is outlined in the description above. In addition the present technology is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It should be understood that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the technology as described here.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the present technology has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present technology to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the present technology be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As should be understood by those familiar with the art the present technology may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the present disclosure or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as should be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the present technology can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the present technology is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the present technology is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure of the present technology is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the present disclosure which is set forth in the following claims.

