---

title: Predicting an effect of events on assets
abstract: A method, computer program product and computer system for predicting that an event identified in an event topic map meta-model will have an effect on at least one asset identified in an asset topic map meta-model. In an exemplary embodiment, a computer receives a query input from a user. The computer obtains an input of an event from the query input. The computer identifies at least one asset mapped to the event in an asset to event topic map meta-model that maps assets in the asset topic map meta-model to events in the event topic map meta-model. In identifying the at least one asset, the computer determines that the at least one asset has greater than a threshold probability of being affected by the event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09123004&OS=09123004&RS=09123004
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09123004
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120329
---
The present invention relates to semantic mapping and more specifically to semantic mapping of event topic map meta models to asset topic map meta models to predict an effect of events on assets.

Manufacturing based companies have enormous investments in assets that are part of the operational processes that drive their business. Optimizing the use of those assets is critical to a company s operational effectiveness and therefore its bottom line.

The equipment or assets that run the manufacturing or production processes are generally connected to servers or controllers to generate operational data that can be used to monitor the manufacturing or production process. Typically companies will collect the operational data and perform operational analysis to provide immediate performance characteristics that can often be represented in dashboards score sheets or reports. Information models can be used to represent how assets are deployed and the relationships between assets such as connections associations or containment. Armed with both the model information and the real time operational data organizations can perform current or future condition analysis on assets and asset groups.

Similarly organizations may use event models to understand relationships between events within their physical infrastructure. These event models may be explicitly defined or they could be implicit in the deployment of business operational processes. These processes could be programmatic rule based or supplied by a knowledge expert. But independent of how they are manifested they represent relationships between events that occur within the operational process. For example the event model would be able to tell a customer what response needs to occur if a critical piece of equipment is operating over a specific threshold for example running too hot or consuming too much power.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a method of predicting that an event identified in an event topic map meta model will have an effect on at least one asset identified in an asset topic map meta model. The method includes a computer receiving a query input from a user. The method further includes the computer obtaining from the query input an input of an event. The method further includes the computer identifying at least one asset mapped to the event in an asset to event topic map meta model that maps assets in the asset topic map meta model to events in the event topic map meta model. The step of identifying the at least one asset includes the computer determining that the at least one asset has greater than a threshold probability of being affected by the event.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a computer program product for predicting that an event identified in an event topic map meta model will have an effect on at least one asset identified in an asset topic map meta model. The computer program product includes one or more computer readable tangible storage devices. The computer program product further includes program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices to receive a query input from a user. The computer program product further includes program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices to obtain from the query input an input of an event. The computer program product further includes program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices to identify at least one asset mapped to the event in an asset to event topic map meta model that maps assets in the asset topic map meta model to events in the event topic map meta model. The program instructions to identify the at least one asset determine that the at least one asset has greater than a threshold probability of being affected by the event. The computer program product further includes program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices to display a probability that the event will affect the mapped at least one asset.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a computer system for predicting that an event identified in an event topic map meta model will have an effect on at least one asset identified in an asset topic map meta model. The computer system includes one or more processors one or more computer readable memories and one or more computer readable tangible storage devices. The computer system further includes program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories to receive a query input from a user. The computer system further includes program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories to obtain from the query input an input of an event. The computer system further includes program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories to identify at least one asset mapped to the event in an asset to event topic map meta model that maps assets in the asset topic map meta model to events in the event topic map meta model. The program instructions to identify the at least one asset determine that the at least one asset has greater than a threshold probability of being affected by the event. The computer system further includes program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories to display a probability that the event will affect the mapped at least one asset.

The illustrative embodiments recognize that for effective operations companies want to be able to answer more complicated questions about the operations of their equipment and or assets and the result of various types of events. Examples are questions like What are the implications of this piece of equipment exceeding a threshold to other assets in my enterprise What are implications to assets that are related by proximity direct or indirect physical connection based on configurations that exist now or that could change by operational cycles or time What are the implications to the events that will be triggered by my operational choices to resolve the immediate threshold problem The illustrative embodiments recognize that these questions are critical to a highly effective operational process and span the boundaries typically maintained by asset models and event models individually.

The illustrative embodiments recognize that models such as asset models and event models are deployed in relative isolation and do not provide a semantic understanding between the models. The illustrative embodiments also recognize that simply expanding the model definitions to attempt to include any relationship across the separate models sacrifices the benefits associated with specifically focused models. Illustrative embodiments provide for interaction between individual models so that the collective values of the individual models can be fully leveraged to drive optimal business efficiencies.

Referring to network data processing system is a network of computers in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Network data processing system contains network which is the medium used to provide communication links between various devices and computers connected together within network data processing system . Network may include connections such as wire wireless communication links or fiber optic cables.

In the depicted example client computer storage unit and server computer connect to network . In other exemplary embodiments network data processing system may include additional client computers storage devices server computers and other devices not shown. Client computer includes a set of internal components and a set of external components further illustrated in . Client computer may be for example a mobile device a cell phone a personal digital assistant a netbook a laptop computer a tablet computer a desktop computer or any other type of computing device. Client computer may contain an interface . Through interface users may view different topic maps as well as an asset to event topic map. Additionally through interface graphs of which assets are affected by which events and preferably the probability of whether an event will affect assets may be displayed on the asset to event topic map. Interface may accept commands and data entry from a user such as additional events or assets. Interface can be for example a command line interface a graphical user interface GUI or a web user interface WUI through which a user can access an asset and event compare program and or a topic map generator program on client computer as shown in or alternatively on server computer . Server computer includes a set of internal components and a set of external components illustrated in .

In the depicted example server computer provides information such as boot files operating system images and applications to client computer . Server computer can compute the information locally or extract the information from other computers on network .

Program code meta models asset models event models and programs such as topic map generator program and asset and event compare program may be stored on at least one of one or more computer readable tangible storage devices shown in on at least one of one or more portable computer readable tangible storage devices as shown in or on storage unit connected to network or may be downloaded to a computer such as client computer or server computer for use. For example program code meta models asset models event models and programs such as topic map generator program and asset and event compare program may be stored on at least one of one or more tangible storage devices on server computer and downloaded to client computer over network for use on client computer . Alternatively server computer can be a web server and the program code meta models asset models event models and programs such as topic map generator program and asset and event compare program may be stored on at least one of the one or more tangible storage devices on server computer and accessed on client computer . Topic map generator program and asset and event compare program can be accessed on client computer through interface . In other exemplary embodiments the program code meta models asset models event models and programs such as topic map generator program and asset and event compare program may be stored on at least one of one or more computer readable tangible storage devices on client computer or distributed between two or more servers.

In the depicted example network data processing system is the Internet with network representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial governmental educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course network data processing system also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as for example an intranet local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . is intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for the different illustrative embodiments.

Topic map generator program creates a topic map meta model including a topic map based index and instance ontology of an asset meta model and stores the created asset topic map meta model in a repository step . The repository may be repository as shown in . It should be noted that while separate repositories for the different meta models are shown in one repository may be used.

Topic map generator program creates a topic map meta model including a topic map based index and instance ontology for an event meta model and stores the created event topic map meta model in a repository step .

Asset and event compare program creates an asset to event topic map meta model that maps assets in the asset topic map meta model created at step to events in the event topic map meta model created at step and stores the asset to event topic map meta model in a repository step . The asset to event topic map meta model may be created manually by a person with knowledge of how specific events affect assets or by asset and event compare program . Asset and event compare program can recursively recreate the asset to event topic map meta model as new events are generated.

In creating the asset to event topic map meta model asset and event compare program can determine what asset s in the asset topic map meta model created at step may be affected by an event in the event topic map meta model created at step . In at least one embodiment asset and event compare program can determine what asset s in the asset topic map meta model created at step may be affected by an event in the event topic map meta model created at step based on historical factual effects of one or more events on one or more assets. The historical effects of the one or more events on the one or more assets may be inputted from a user or obtained from various databases.

In at least one embodiment asset and event compare program can determine what asset s in the asset topic map meta model created at step may be affected by an event in the event topic map meta model created at step based on a projected effect. For example if a predicted extreme weather event could cause local floods asset and event compare program can project that the extreme weather event would affect one or more water related assets such as water pipes and drains and would thus map the extreme weather event to the one or more water related assets.

In at least one embodiment asset and compare program can determine that one or more assets in the asset topic map meta model created at step may be affected by an event in the event topic map meta model created at step if the one or more assets have greater than a threshold probability of being affected by the event. For example historically a tropical storm of specific magnitude will have a high probability of affecting sewer drain pipes and above ground power lines but not power lines that lie underneath the ground or buildings. In at least one embodiment asset and compare program can calculate the probability that an asset will be affected by an event using Bayesian methodology. In one embodiment asset and compare program can cause the probability to be displayed on the asset to event topic map meta model.

Asset and event compare program receives a query input for use in predicting which asset s specified in the query input will be affected by an event specified in the query input step . Asset and event compare program can receive the query input from a user through an interface such as interface . Interface may be a topic map interface which may be a representational state transfer REST based interface although other interfaces may be used. A REST interface is preferably used since REST is a standards based Internet protocol and is self documenting in terms of how to do the search for example which domain to search and which topic to search.

In one embodiment the query input includes at least one domain. For example the query input can have the following syntax 

The domain of the query input is the event to the overall system to be searched for example the asset to event topic map meta model. An example of a query input received at step to predict what asset s will be affected by a specific event in this case a flood is as follows 

Responsive to receiving this query input asset and event compare program can identify every asset that would be affected by a flood.

Alternatively the query input may include at least one domain and at least one a topic. For example the query input can have the following syntax 

The domain of the query input is the event to apply to the overall system to be searched. The topic of the query input is the asset s that the event may affect. An example of a query input received at step to predict what asset s WorkEquipment see asset topic map of will be affected by a specific event a flood see event topic map of is as follows 

Responsive to receiving this query input asset and event compare program can determine whether the flood will affect a specific asset the Asset WorkEquipment.

In exemplary embodiments asset and event compare program obtains from the query input an input of the asset topic s and an input of the event to compare step . The asset and event compare program then identifies at least one asset mapped to the event in the asset to event topic map meta model created at step step .

Asset and event compare program causes asset s predicted to be affected by the event to be displayed step . In at least one embodiment asset and event compare program causes to be displayed the asset s that have a probability greater than a threshold probability of being affected by the event. In at least one embodiment asset and event compare program can calculate the probability that an asset will be affected by an event using Bayesian methodology. In at least one embodiment asset and event compare program can cause the probability to be displayed. For example asset and event compare program can cause the probability to be displayed along with a range of probabilities. In another example asset and event compare program can cause the probability to be displayed in a form based on where the probability falls within the range of probabilities. For example the color red could be used in a color coded system to indicate a greater than 0.8 chance that an asset would be affected by an event.

If there are additional queries step return to step of receiving a query input. If there are no additional queries step the method ends.

Stored within a resource description framework RDF repository for example repository are RDF triples of the assigned topics occurrences and attributes of the assets topic map meta model . An assets meta model in which assets topic map meta model is based may be stored within repository or in a separate repository .

From a uniform modeling language UML representation shown in of assets meta model the RDF triples in Table 1 below represent an association between an Asset WorkEquipment being connected to the other pieces of Asset WorkEquipment. The relationship between Asset WorkEquipment and other pieces of Asset WorkEquipment is the type equipment connects .

Note that for brevity in the following discussion the following RDF namespace prefixes will be used with URLx replacing an actual Uniform Resource Locator designation or other designation of a location on a network 

Therefore for foo asset Workequiment EquipmentConnects Asset WorkEquipment the following RDF triples would be present for the association between WorkEquipment and Asset WorkEquipment.

Stored within the resource description framework RDF repository for example repository are RDF triples of the assigned topics occurrences and attributes of event topic map meta model . An event meta model in which event topic map meta model is based may be stored within repository or in a separate repository .

From a UML representation shown in of event meta model the RDF triples in Table 3 below represent an association between a Special EventObject being a type of EventObject. The relationship between Special EventObject and EventObject is the type is a . Therefore for foo specialEventObject is a EventObject the following RDF triples would be present for the association between Special EventObject and EventObject.

Listener has event listeners for example XEventListener and X . . . Listener which each receive information regarding event objects. An event object for example EventObject or Special EventObject is an object that describes the nature of an event and stores properties and information regarding the event.

Broadcaster is associated with EventObject and Special EventObject as shown by the dashed open arrowed lines. Special EventObject is a type of EventObject as indicated by the solid line and open arrow.

In the portion of the topic map representation shown in the topic of Asset WorkEquipment is located at or has an occurrence at Asset FunctionalLocation shown by a solid line . The topic of Asset WorkEquipment has the attributes or plays the role of equipment and is a Asset PhysicalEntity shown by a dash dot dot line . The topic Asset FunctionalLocation has the attributes or plays the role of location.

Each set of internal components also includes a R W drive or interface to read from and write to one or more portable computer readable tangible storage devices such as a CD ROM DVD memory stick magnetic tape magnetic disk optical disk or semiconductor storage device. Topic map generator program and asset and event compare program can be stored on at least one of one or more of the portable computer readable tangible storage devices read via R W drive or interface and loaded into hard drive .

Each set of internal components also includes a network adapter or interface such as a TCP IP adapter card. Topic map generator program and asset and event compare program can be downloaded to client computer and server computer from an external computer via a network for example the Internet a local area network or other wide area network and network adapter or interface . From the network adapter or interface topic map generator program and asset and event compare program are loaded into hard drive . The network may comprise copper wires optical fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers.

Each of the sets of external components includes a computer display monitor a keyboard and a computer mouse . Each of the sets of internal components also includes device drivers to interface to computer display monitor keyboard and computer mouse . The device drivers R W drive or interface and network adapter or interface comprise hardware and software stored in storage device and or ROM .

Topic map generator program and asset and event compare program can be written in various programming languages including low level high level object oriented or non object oriented languages. Alternatively the functions of topic map generator program and asset and event compare program can be implemented in whole or in part by computer circuits and other hardware not shown .

Based on the foregoing a computer system method and program product have been disclosed for predicting that an event will have an affect on at least one asset. However numerous modifications and substitutions can be made without deviating from the scope of the present invention. Therefore the present invention has been disclosed by way of example and not limitation.

