---

title: Utilizing a social network account to provide additional functionality to a gaming network account
abstract: A method to provide additional gaming network functionality links a user's gaming network identity with the user's social network identity. Linkage of the user's gaming network and social network identities establishes a two way communication link by which a gaming (social) network service can obtain information from, and send information to, a social (gaming) network service on behalf of the user. The gaming (social) network service may obtain information regarding the social (gaming) network relationships of the user's social (gaming) network identity and suggest gaming (social) network relationships to the user based on the social (gaming) network relationships. The gaming (social) network service additionally enables a user having linked identities to post gaming (social) network related messages as social (gaming) network messages via their social (gaming) network identity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569750&OS=09569750&RS=09569750
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09569750
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120606
---
This disclosure relates generally to a technique for integrating a user s social network account with the user s gaming network account to provide additional gaming network functionality.

With the advancement in processing power and functionality of mobile devices video game applications which were once reserved for stand alone gaming systems have become an extremely popular category of applications for these devices. Based on the popularity of gaming applications and the connected nature of the mobile devices on which they are often executed a relatively recent development is a gaming network service that allows users to establish relationships with friends initiate games with these friends and track game statistics with respect to friends and other game users from within the gaming network. Developers of gaming applications that are compatible with the gaming network provide functionality in the gaming application that enables the application to interface with the gaming network to provide scores statistics and the ability to initiate the game from within the gaming network. One example of this type of gaming network is the Apple Game Center service. APPLE is a registered trademark of Apple Inc. 

A gaming network is a type of social network in that it allows users to establish relationships with friends and to compete against and compare game statistics with these friends. While a gaming network allows a user to establish relationships and control their gaming experience from a single location some users may not utilize the full capability that a gaming network provides. For example a user may not be aware of acquaintances that also have gaming network identities.

In order to facilitate the establishment of gaming network relationships a gaming network service may provide automatic friend recommendations based on various factors. For example the gaming network may recognize an overlap in the friends of two gaming network users and may provide friend recommendations to one of the users based on friends of the other. In addition the gaming network service may obtain contacts from an email account of a user and search for gaming network users associated with any of the obtained email addresses. The gaming network might also allow a user to manually search for gaming network friends by email address user identity etc. While these methods may allow a user to establish relationships over time it would be beneficial to provide another mechanism to facilitate the establishment of gaming network relationships.

A gaming network user having a gaming network identity may also be a social network user having a different social network identity. Example social networks may include Facebook Twitter and LinkedIn . FACEBOOK is a registered trademark of Facebook Inc TWITTER is a registered trademark of Twitter Inc. LINKEDIN is a registered trademark of LinkedIn Corporation. Oftentimes it will be the case that the user has a much more established set of relationships in the social network than in the gaming network. For example a new user of a gaming network may have very few gaming network friends but may have hundreds or thousands of social network friends. Many of the user s social network friends may also have gaming network identities and may be in a similar situation of having relatively few gaming network friends. It would be beneficial to take advantage of a user s already established social network relationships and the functionality of the social network to maximize a user s gaming network experience.

In one embodiment a method includes determining by a client side gaming network application that a user of a device on which the application is installed has both a gaming network identity and a social network identity. The client side gaming network application may then send a request to a server side gaming network application to link the user s gaming network and social network identities and receive in response one or more gaming network relationship recommendations based on social network relationships of the user s social network identity.

In another embodiment a computer program product includes instructions to cause a processor to receive a request to link a user s gaming network and social network identities obtain access to the user s social network account and receive a relationship map that includes social network identities that have a social network relationship with the user s social network identity.

In still another embodiment a device includes program code stored in a memory of the device that causes the device s processor s to send a request to link a gaming network identity with a social network identity of the device s user receive an indication that the gaming network identity and the social network identity were successfully linked and allow the user to send a gaming network related message to be communicated as a social network message via the user s social network identity.

This disclosure pertains to systems methods devices and computer program products for integrating the functionality of a social network with the functionality of a gaming network. In general techniques are disclosed for linking a user s gaming network identity with the user s social network identity. More particularly the linking of a user s gaming network identity with the user s social network identity can enable two way communications between the gaming network service and the social network service so that the gaming network service can obtain information from and deliver information to the social network service.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the inventive concept. As part of this description some of this disclosure s drawings represent structures and devices in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the invention. In the interest of clarity not all features of an actual implementation are described in this specification. Moreover the language used in this disclosure has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter resort to the claims being necessary to determine such inventive subject matter. Reference in this disclosure to one embodiment or to an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention and multiple references to one embodiment or an embodiment should not be understood as necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

It will be appreciated that in the development of any actual implementation as in any development project numerous decisions must be made to achieve the developers specific goals e.g. compliance with system and business related constraints and that these goals will vary from one implementation to another. It will also be appreciated that such development efforts might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking for those of ordinary skill in the design of gaming network services having the benefit of this disclosure.

Referring to a block diagram illustrates the relationships between various gaming network and social network identities. As used herein gaming network and social network refer to the functionality provided by a gaming network service and a social network service respectively in providing a forum in which users can interact with their applications and with other users. As will be described below some functionality provided by these services will be implemented by a server side application while other functionality will be implemented by a client side application.

In identities on a common horizontal line represent the identities of a single user. For example user has a gaming network identity A and a social network identity A . The solid lines within each of gaming network and social network represent existing relationships between the various identities. The dashed lines represent potential new relationships for user in gaming network based on the linkage of user s gaming network identity A with their social network identity A . Finally the lines between a gaming network identity and a social network identity represent linked identities.

In the relatively simple example illustrated user has a more established set of relationships in social network than in gaming network . For example in social network user has direct relationships with user B user C user E user F and user G . Conversely in gaming network user has direct relationships with only user B and user I . Users A A B B C C E E and G G have both a social network identity and a gaming network identity. Users D and F have a social network identity but have not yet established a gaming network identity. Likewise users H and I have a gaming network identity but have not established a social network identity. Of the five users and having both a social network identity and a gaming network identity users B B C C and G G have linked their social network and gaming network identities. User A A is considering linking their social network and gaming network identities illustrated by the dashed line between gaming network identity A and social network identity A .

Based on the linkage of user s gaming network identity and social network identity gaming network may automatically suggest several relationships to user . When user selects to link their gaming network identity A with their social network identity A user s gaming network account obtains a relationship map from user s social network account. The relationship map identifies user s direct social network relationships with user user user user and user along with those users social network identities. Because users and have linked their gaming network and social network identities gaming network can recognize user as gaming network identity C and user as gaming network identity G. Moreover because users and have a direct social networking relationship with user gaming network may suggest that user form a gaming network relationship with those users.

In one embodiment gaming network records may be maintained in a global data store that associates a gaming network identity with a social network identity for each user that has linked their gaming network and social network identities. Each identity may uniquely identify a user in a particular network e.g. A uniquely identifies user in social network . In one embodiment in response to a user linking their gaming network and social network identities gaming network may query the data store for each of the social network identities identified in an obtained relationship map as having a direct relationship with the user. Therefore in the case illustrated in a data store may be queried for social network identities B C E F and G in response to obtaining user s social network relationship map and may identify matches for B C and G corresponding to users and and gaming network identities B C and G.

In another embodiment gaming network may suggest additional ancillary relationships based on the linking of user s social network identity A with their gaming network identity A. For example based on the recognition of user as having a direct social network relationship with user and based on user s direct gaming network relationship with user gaming network may additionally suggest a relationship between users and according to a friend of a friend matching feature.

As illustrated the linkage of user s gaming network identity A with their social network identity A may facilitate the creation of several gaming network relationships. For purposes of clarity the illustrated embodiment includes a small number of gaming network and social network relationships. In reality a user may have hundreds or thousands of social network relationships which may facilitate the creation of many more gaming network relationships than are illustrated in . It should be noted that although user has a direct social network relationship with user gaming network may not be able to suggest a gaming network relationship between users and because user has not linked their gaming network and social network identities E and E respectively . For example although user s relationship map may indicate a direct relationship with user a query of the gaming network data store for user s social network identity E may not return a match because user has not linked their gaming network and social network identities. While this represents a missed opportunity to create a gaming network relationship additional functionality of the linking of social network and gaming network identities may foster the creation of this relationship as described in greater detail below. This additional functionality might also induce users of social network to create a gaming network identity. For example as will also be described in greater detail below user may be induced to create a gaming network identity based on user s linkage of their gaming network and social network identities.

Referring to a block diagram illustrates a process by which the linking of a user s gaming network identity and social network identity may be initiated from device in accordance with one embodiment. Device may be a personal digital assistant PDA personal music player mobile telephone notebook laptop desktop or a tablet computer and is described in greater detail below with respect to . Device has installed thereon client side gaming network application hereinafter gaming network application and client side social network application hereinafter social network application . As set forth above gaming network application may allow the user to initiate and track multiple gaming applications installed on device through gaming network . Likewise social network application may allow the user to communicate with acquaintances via social network .

At gaming network application obtains a user s social network credentials. Social network credentials may be any identifying information that allows a user to interact via social network using a particular social network identity. In one embodiment the user s social network credentials may include a username and password combination. In one embodiment gaming network application may attempt to obtain the user s social network credentials at the request of the user. In another embodiment gaming network application may attempt to obtain the user s social network credentials without being requested to do so by the user. In the illustrated embodiment gaming network application obtains the user s social network credentials directly from social network application . Social network application may store the user s social network credentials such that the user may not have to enter the credentials each time they wish to communicate via social network . Thus gaming network application may request the credentials directly from social network application . Before providing the credentials to gaming network application social network application may prompt the user to consent to the sharing of the credentials with gaming network application .

In another embodiment the user s social network credentials may not be obtained directly from social network application . For example in one embodiment gaming network application may obtain the user s social network credentials as a direct input from the user. The social network credentials may be obtained in this manner in response to a request by the user to link the user s gaming network identity with their social network identity. As such it is not necessary that social network application be installed on device . In another embodiment gaming network application may search a predefined memory location of device that is utilized to store social network credentials. In such an embodiment gaming network application may search for the user s social network credentials upon installation of gaming network application on device when gaming network application is launched for a first time each time gaming network application is launched or at any other appropriate times. In response to obtaining the user s social network credentials gaming network application may determine that the user has both a gaming network identity and a social network identity and may prompt the user to link their gaming network identity with their social network identity.

When a user of device consents to linking their gaming network identity with their social network identity gaming network application may cause device to transmit a request to obtain gaming network specific credentials to social network server via network . Request may include the user s social network credentials and can be provided to server side social network application executing on social network server . In one embodiment the user s social network credentials may be transmitted in an encrypted form Network may take any form including but not limited to a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. Further network may use any desired technology wired wireless or a combination thereof and protocol e.g. transmission control protocol TCP .

In response to receiving request server side social network application can authenticate the user based on the provided social network credentials. If the user is properly authenticated server side social network application may generate the requested gaming network specific credentials. In one embodiment the gaming network specific credentials are randomly generated by server side social network application . The gaming network specific credentials uniquely identify a user s social network identity and can be used by server side gaming network application executing on gaming network server to communicate directly with server side social network application on behalf of the user. For example the gaming network specific credentials may allow server side gaming network application to obtain the user s social network relationship map and to create social network messages using the user s social network identity. The gaming network specific credentials may be transmitted to device as response . Although illustrates gaming network application as communicating with social network server to obtain gaming network specific credentials alternate means of obtaining these credentials will be understood by those of skill in the art. For example social network application may perform this operation on behalf of gaming network application . That is gaming network application may simply request gaming network specific credentials from social network application and social network application may obtain the gaming network specific credentials and provide them to gaming network application . In such an embodiment gaming network application would not need to obtain the user s social network credentials.

Regardless of the mechanism utilized to obtain gaming network specific credentials gaming network application can send request to server side gaming network application executing on gaming network server to initiate the linkage of the user s gaming network and social network identities. In one embodiment request will include the user s gaming network identity as well as the gaming network specific credentials to be utilized by server side gaming network application to communicate with server side social network application on behalf of the user.

In one embodiment upon receiving request server side gaming network application may send request for a token to server side social network application . In the depicted embodiment communications between social network server and gaming network server are illustrated as occurring over common network . In an alternate embodiment social network server and gaming network server may be connected via a separate network from that used for communications with device . Request can include authentication information that uniquely identifies gaming network server to social network server .

If server side social network application properly authenticates gaming network server server side social network application may send response that includes a gaming network server token. In one embodiment the gaming network server token is transmitted in an encrypted form. In another embodiment the gaming network server token is a data string that can be presented along with a user s gaming network specific credentials before the server side social network application will perform any actions requested by the server side gaming network application. This ensures that only predefined devices e.g. gaming network server that are capable of presenting proper authentication information to server side social network application will be permitted to act on behalf of a user in social network by presenting both the server token and the user s gaming network specific credentials. In the depicted embodiment the token provided in response is unique to a specific user. That is server provides authentication information to server and server side social network application generates a unique token for each different user that requests to link their social network and gaming network identities. In an alternate embodiment server authentication operation may only be performed once or may be performed at predefined time intervals. In such an embodiment server side gaming network application may use a single token for all interactions with server side social network application .

Server side gaming network application may then send request to link the user s gaming network identity with their social network identity to server side social network application . Request can include the user s gaming network specific credentials as well as the gaming network server token. Because the gaming network specific credentials uniquely identify the user s social network identity as discussed above server side social network application can utilize the gaming network specific credentials to access the user s social network account. That is the gaming network specific credentials may allow server side gaming network application to obtain access to information relating to the user s social network identity as well as to act on behalf of the user i.e. post messages create friend requests etc. using the social network identity. The server side social network application may generate relationship map based on established relationships identified by the user s social network identity. In the relatively simple embodiment illustrated the relationship map for user includes the direct relationships for user s social network identity A . In another embodiment relationship map may include additional information such as length of relationships relationship status e.g. identifying B as A s spouse frequency of interactions etc.

After obtaining relationship map server side social network application can send response to server side gaming network application that includes relationship map as well as any additional relevant information regarding the user s social network identity. In addition to initial response server side social network application may continue to monitor the user s social network identity and can send updates to server side gaming network application when any updates are made to the user s social network identity. For example server side social network application may generate and transmit an updated relationship map when user s identity A creates or terminates a social network relationship. Server side social network application may continue the monitoring process until the user terminates their social network or gaming network identity requests that the identities be unlinked or performs another action that results in the termination of the monitoring process.

Upon receiving response server side gaming network application may query global data store that maintains the gaming network identities of all gaming network users along with corresponding social network identities for users that have linked those identities. To continue the example of global data store may include gaming network identities A B C E G H I for each user of gaming network . For users that have linked their gaming network and social network identities corresponding social network identities A B C G can also be provided in global data store . Query may search the social network identifier field SN ID of global data store for each of the direct relationships of social network identity A included in the received relationship map . As such query may return gaming network identities B C and G as matches for social network identities B C and G which correspond to direct social network relationships of gaming network identity A as indicated in relationship map . Server side gaming network application may then determine that gaming network identity A has already established a gaming network relationship with gaming network identity B but has not established a gaming network relationship with identities C or G. Server side gaming network application may periodically perform querying operation to identify new friend recommendations based on new users linking their social network and gaming network identities.

Based on identified matches server side gaming network application may send gaming network friend recommendations to gaming network application . In one embodiment the friend recommendations may constitute an indication that the user s gaming network and social network identities have been successfully linked. In another embodiment a separate message may be sent from server side gaming network application to gaming network application indicating that the user s gaming network and social network identities have been successfully linked. In response to the indication that the user s gaming network and social network identities have been successfully linked additional functionality of the gaming network application may be made available. For example once the identities are linked the gaming network application may allow a user to distribute gaming network related messages e.g. gaming network accomplishments gaming network friend requests etc. as social network messages via the user s social network identity.

To continue the example from above server side gaming network application may send friend recommendations that allow user to initiate gaming network relationships with gaming network identities C and G. In one embodiment the friend recommendations may include a selectable object that allows a user to send a direct request to initiate a gaming network relationship with the gaming network identity indicated in the friend recommendation. In another embodiment server side gaming network application may automatically establish gaming network relationships between users that have direct social network relationships and have linked their social network and gaming network identities. In one embodiment such automatic relationship establishment may be contingent upon a user selecting a setting option that allows the creation of automatic gaming network relationships in such a manner. The illustrated process results in the establishment of a two way relationship between a user s social network identity and their gaming network identity by which server side gaming network application may obtain information from and send information to server side social network application on behalf of the user.

Referring to network application operation determines a user has a gaming network accomplishment block . The accomplishment may be a new high score among the user s gaming network friends a new global high score for a particular game over a particular time period a gaming network achievement e.g. an accumulated points total based on results of all games that the user has played within gaming network etc. In one embodiment the accomplishment can be visible within gaming network . For example the accomplishment may be displayed as a top ranking in a leaderboard among friends in gaming network . Because the user has linked their gaming network identity with their social network identity gaming network application may enable the user to share the accomplishment as a message via the user s linked social network identity block . In one embodiment the accomplishment may be transmitted from gaming network application to server side gaming network application . Server side gaming network application may then create a social network message on behalf of the user and transmit the message to server side social network application along with the gaming network specific credentials and gaming network server token. Server side social network application may then cause the message to be communicated via social network and attributed to the user. Therefore the linking of a user s gaming network identity and social network identity permits the user to share gaming network related messages via their social network identity. While the accomplishment is described as being shared via a social network message the accomplishment may be shared via a social network status update a social network post etc.

In one embodiment the shared accomplishment may include a selectable link. In one embodiment the selectable link may include a uniform resource locator URL . By sharing the gaming network accomplishment via the user s social network identity other users that have a social network relationship with the user that shares the accomplishment will see the accomplishment. These other users may not have a gaming network relationship with the user sharing the accomplishment and may not even have a gaming network identity. As such linkage of a user s gaming network and social network identities may facilitate the communication of gaming network accomplishments to a broader audience.

A user having a social network relationship with the user that shared the accomplishment may see the message and select the link included with the message block . It is then determined whether the user that selected the link has a gaming network identity block . In one embodiment it may be determined that the user that selected the link has a gaming network identity if gaming network application is installed on the device from which the link was selected. In another embodiment it may be determined that the user that selected the link has a gaming network identity if the device from which the link was selected has account information stored in a predetermined location for gaming network if it is determined that the user that selected the link does not have a gaming network identity the NO prong of block the link may cause an invitation to be displayed block inviting the user to create a gaming network identity and or to download gaming network application . For example referring back to the example provided in user F has a social network relationship with user A but does not have a gaming network identity. Therefore user may see the social network message identifying user s gaming network accomplishment and may select the associated link. Because user does not have a gaming network identity however the link will cause an invitation to create a gaming network identity to be displayed to user . In one embodiment the link may cause the device to display a gaming network marketing webpage. In another embodiment the invitation may cause the device to launch a media distribution application such as Apple s App Store and to display an interface that enables the user to acquire gaming network application . APP STORE is a trademark of Apple Inc. Therefore one user s linkage of their gaming network and social network identities may induce other users to acquire gaming network application and to create a gaming network identity.

If it is determined that the user that selected the link has a gaming network identity the YES prong of block the link may cause gaming network application to be launched. It may then be determined whether the user that selected the link has a gaming network relationship with the user that shared the accomplishment block . If it is determined that the user that selected the link does not have a gaming network relationship with the user that shared the accomplishment the NO prong of block the user that selected the link may be invited to initiate a gaming network relationship with the user that shared the accomplishment block . For example referring again to the example provided in user has both a social network identity E and a gaming network identity E . User has a social network relationship but not a gaming network relationship with user . Therefore user may see a social network message identifying user s gaming network accomplishment and may select the associated link. The link may cause gaming network application to be launched on user s device. It may then be determined that user does not have a gaming network relationship with user . Accordingly user may be presented with an invitation to initiate a gaming network relationship with user . User may also be invited to link their gaming network and social network identities. Alternatively the user that shared the accomplishment may be prompted to create a gaming network relationship with the user that selected the link. In another embodiment selection of the link may automatically create a gaming network relationship between the user that selected the link and the user that shared the accomplishment because the users necessarily have a social network relationship. Again the creation of an automatic relationship may be contingent upon a user selecting a setting option that allows the creation of automatic gaming network relationships in such a manner. Therefore one user s linkage of their gaming network and social network identities may foster the creation of subsequent gaming network relationships.

If it is determined that the user that selected the link has a gaming network relationship with the user that shared the accomplishment the YES prong of block the accomplishment may be displayed to the user that selected the link block . In one embodiment the link can cause a leaderboard that shows the accomplishment to be displayed within gaming network application . In addition to promoting the creation of gaming network relationships the linkage of a user s gaming network and social network identities may enable gaming network accomplishments to be shared via social network to a potentially broader audience. Moreover the sharing of gaming network accomplishments via social network may encourage additional users of social network to begin using gaming network .

Referring to example social network user interfaces illustrate various gaming network related messages communicated as social network messages via a user s social network identity. In each of the figures an example interface provided by social network application as viewed by user B illustrates functionality enabled by the linkage of user s gaming network and social network identities. Referring first to user s social network application interface displays message indicating a gaming network accomplishment of user . As described above message may be initiated by user directly from gaming network e.g. from within user s gaming network application . For example gaming network application may send a request to server side gaming network application to send message to server side social network application to be displayed via social network . Moreover as additionally described above message includes link that causes user s accomplishment to be displayed and may additionally foster new gaming network relationships for user . The gaming network accomplishment is displayed using user s social network identity A .

Referring to user s social network application interface displays gaming network friend request sent by user . Like message friend request may be initiated by user directly from gaming network e.g. from within user s gaming network application . Because server side gaming network application will have access to each of user s social network relationships based on the relationship map user may send a friend request to any or all of the social network identities with whom they have a relationship. For example gaming network application may retrieve the list of identities from relationship map from server side gaming network application and may select certain identities to whom friend request should be generated. In response to receiving the list of social network identities to whom friend request should be sent server side gaming network application may send the requests to server side social network application to be displayed via social network . Accordingly user may be able to reach a wide audience of users by sending the request via their social network identity. Like message friend request may include selectable link . Selectable link may function similarly to link . For example link may cause gaming network application to be launched if it is installed on a device from which the link is selected. Rather than causing gaming network application to display an achievement however link may enable the user selecting the link to initiate a gaming network relationship with the user that sent friend request . Therefore in addition to utilizing social network to post accomplishments from gaming network a user that has linked their gaming network and social network identities might also utilize social network to send gaming network friend requests.

Referring to user s social network application interface displays game recommendation sent by user . Like message and friend request game recommendation may be initiated by user directly from gaming network e.g. from within user s gaming network application . For example gaming network application may display all games compatible with gaming network that a user has installed on a device. The user may be able to select an option to send a recommendation for one or more of the listed games to be displayed via social network . In addition a user may be able to send game recommendation from within a game itself i.e. outside of gaming network application . For example gaming network application may provide an application programming interface API that allows a game application developer to display a recommend option within a game application. Selection of the recommend option by a user may cause the game to send a recommendation through gaming network application to be posted via social network . Like message and friend request game recommendation may include selectable link . Link may function similarly to links and but instead of displaying an accomplishment or initiating a gaming network relationship link may present a user selecting link with an option to purchase a recommended game if the user selecting the link does not have the game or may allow the user to initiate a session of the game if the user does have the game. For example if the user selecting link does not have the recommended game link may cause a device to launch a media distribution application such as Apple s App Store and to display an interface that enables the user to purchase the recommended game. In one embodiment if the user that selects link already has the recommended game link may enable the user to initiate a session of the game or to request a session of the game against the user that posted game recommendation . Therefore in addition to utilizing social network to post accomplishments from gaming network or to send friend requests a user that has linked their gaming network and social network identities might also utilize social network to send game recommendations .

Referring to a simplified functional block diagram of an illustrative electronic device is shown according to one embodiment. Device social network server and gaming network server may take the form of electronic device . Electronic device may include processor display user interface graphics hardware device sensors e.g. proximity sensor ambient light sensor accelerometer and or gyroscope microphone audio codec s speaker s communications circuitry digital image capture unit video codec s memory storage and communications bus . Electronic device may be for example a personal digital assistant PDA personal music player mobile telephone notebook laptop tablet desktop or server computer.

Processor may execute instructions necessary to carry out or control the operation of many functions performed by device Processor may for instance drive display and receive user input from user interface . User interface may allow a user to interact with device . For example user interface can take a variety of forms such as a button keypad dial a click wheel keyboard display screen and or a touch screen. Processor may also for example be a system on chip such as those found in mobile devices and include a dedicated graphics processing unit GPU . Processor may be based on reduced instruction set computer RISC or complex instruction set computer CISC architectures or any other suitable architecture and may include one or more processing cores. Graphics hardware may be special purpose computational hardware for processing graphics and or assisting processor to process graphics information. In one embodiment graphics hardware may include a programmable graphics processing unit GPU .

Sensor and camera circuitry may capture still and video images that may be processed at least in part by video codec s and or processor and or graphics hardware and or a dedicated image processing unit incorporated within circuitry . Images so captured may be stored in memory and or storage . Memory may include one or more different types of media used by processor and graphics hardware to perform device functions. For example memory may include memory cache read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . Storage may store media e.g. audio image and video files computer program instructions or software preference information device profile information and any other suitable data. Storage may include one more non transitory storage mediums including for example magnetic disks fixed floppy and removable and tape optical media such as CD ROMs and digital video disks DVDs and semiconductor memory devices such as Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM and Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM . Memory and storage may be used to tangibly retain computer program instructions or code organized into one or more modules and written in any desired computer programming language. When executed by for example processor such computer program code may implement one or more of the methods described herein.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. The material has been presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the inventive concepts described herein and is provided in the context of particular embodiments variations of which will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art e.g. some of the disclosed embodiments may be used in combination with each other . Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Moreover although the specification has focused on the initiation of the described process from the gaming network application the described process could just as easily be implemented from the social network application. That is rather than the gaming network obtaining information from and sending information to the social network the social network may obtain information from and send information to the gaming network. The scope of the invention therefore should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. 

