---

title: Method and apparatus for security mechanism for proximity-based access requests
abstract: An approach is provided for providing security mechanism for proximity-based interactions among devices. At least one first device (e.g., a memory tag) may determine a request for interaction between the at least one first device and at least one second device (e.g., a mobile phone), wherein at least the at least one first device is associated with at least one first antenna and at least one second antenna. The at least one first device may determine a first signal received by the at least one first antenna and a second signal received by the at least one second antenna. Further, the at least one first device may determine one or more differences in one or more characteristics of the first signal and the second signal. Furthermore, the at least one first device may process and/or facilitate a processing of the one or more differences to determine whether to allow the interaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09055435&OS=09055435&RS=09055435
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 09055435
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20121219
---
Service providers e.g. wireless cellular etc. and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest is providing the capability of proximity based wireless communication among user devices where users may utilize various devices e.g. mobile phones smart cards memory tags etc. to communicate with other nearby devices for a range of tasks and or services for example to share content and information pay for purchased services and content and the like. In various scenarios users may use a device to interface with vending machines kiosks smart posters billboards etc. where various user information may be transferred via the communication link e.g. near field communication NFC . However in many instances sensitive user information such as credit card numbers passwords user identification information etc. may be transferred between the devices whereby the sensitive information may be requested by and or unintentionally transferred to unauthorized devices.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for security mechanism for proximity based interactions among devices.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining a request for interaction between at least one first device and at least one second device wherein at least the at least one first device is associated with at least one first antenna and at least one second antenna. The method also comprises determining a first signal received by the at least one first antenna and a second signal received by the at least one second antenna. Further the method also comprises determining one or more differences in one or more characteristics of the first signal and the second signal. Additionally the method also comprises processing and or facilitating a processing of the one or more differences to determine whether to allow the interaction.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine a request for interaction between at least one first device and at least one second device wherein at least the at least one first device is associated with at least one first antenna and at least one second antenna. The apparatus is further caused to determine a first signal received by the at least one first antenna and a second signal received by the at least one second antenna. Further the apparatus is also caused to determine one or more differences in one or more characteristics of the first signal and the second signal. Additionally the apparatus is also caused to process and or facilitate a processing of the one or more differences to determine whether to allow the interaction.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine a request for interaction between at least one first device and at least one second device wherein at least the at least one first device is associated with at least one first antenna and at least one second antenna. The apparatus is further caused to determine a first signal received by the at least one first antenna and a second signal received by the at least one second antenna. Further the apparatus is also caused to determine one or more differences in one or more characteristics of the first signal and the second signal. Additionally the apparatus is also caused to process and or facilitate a processing of the one or more differences to determine whether to allow the interaction.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining a request for interaction between at least one first device and at least one second device wherein at least the at least one first device is associated with at least one first antenna and at least one second antenna. The apparatus further comprises means for determining a first signal tag received by the at least one first antenna and a second signal tag received by the at least one second antenna. Further the apparatus also comprises means for determining one or more differences in one or more characteristics of the first signal and the second signal. Additionally the apparatus also comprises means for processing and or facilitating a processing of the one or more differences to determine whether to allow the interaction.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on including derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of the originally filed claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for providing security mechanism for proximity based interactions between devices are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term request for interaction refers to one or more requests from one or more devices to interact with each other. By way of example the request and or the interaction may be facilitated by use of one or more proximity based communication methods. Further the interaction among the devices may include requesting for access granting access reading writing modifying accessing enquiring and the like actions wherein the actions may be performed by one or more devices which may have access to one or more data items. Furthermore a memory tag may refer to a wireless memory tag an RFID memory tag and the like which may be embedded into a device e.g. a mobile device or may be a stand alone device e.g. as a memory card tag. 

As implementation of such communication and sharing methods become more prevalent users are becoming more willing utilize the methods to share a wide range of information which include personal data with other users and devices however other opportunistic users and devices may attempt unauthorized access to the user devices and data therein e.g. reading and or writing. For example a first user may utilize a device e.g. a first mobile phone a bank card etc. for establishing a wireless communication link for sending and or receiving certain information to from another nearby target device however an unauthorized user may utilize another device e.g. another mobile phone for example at a remote distance to request and gain a fraudulent access to the device and information of the first user while pretending to be the intended nearby target device. Further an unauthorized device at a nearby location may be programmed to attempt and take control of e.g. hijack a communication link between two other devices which may not be aware of the presence of the unauthorized device.

To address at least these problems a system of introduces the capability of proving security mechanism for proximity based interactions among devices. More specifically a first device for example a mobile phone a smart card a tablet a memory card a passive device an active device and the like may determine if a communication link between the first device and a nearby target device is in fact a communication link between only the first device and the intended target device. For example a user is using a first device to communicate with a target device wherein the first device and the target device may allow interaction between the devices for reading transferring sending and or writing data from and to the other respective device. In another instance the first device may utilize the communication link to determine a location of a target device. In one embodiment the first device may identify its location and notify the target device when allowing an interaction between the first and the target devices. In various instances a first device and or a target device may include power storage and computational resources or may be a passive device which may include resources e.g. circuitry for storing data and responding to other devices wherein a passive device may receive power and or data signals from an active device.

Although users and user devices may employ a range of security mechanisms e.g. user ID device ID paring acceptance etc. when establishing communication links for sharing data between various devices in certain scenarios users may wish to quickly establish the communication link with minimal setup requirements for example without the use of all traditional security mechanisms. However when a user identifies a target device that is in close proximity e.g. within inches which is a device the user would like to establish a communication link with the user may utilize the mechanisms of the system to achieve a desired security level. In various embodiments one or more characteristics e.g. phase amplitude power time etc. of one or more communication signals signals may be analyzed to determine an authorized communication link and access rights. In one embodiment the system may process a plurality of signals to determine differences between corresponding phase power amplitude and the like signals and further determine location and or direction of one or more potential signal sources e.g. devices. In one scenario two NFC enabled devices e.g. a mobile device and a memory card or any other wirelessly powered enabled devices may establish a communication link when the two devices are brought substantially close to each other wherein the two devices may include a plurality of antennas for transmitting and receiving the signals for example data signals power signals reference signals and the like. Further a receiving device may receive a plurality of transmission signals via a plurality of antennas wherein the receiving device may process analyze deduce etc. differences in characteristics of the plurality of the transmission signals so to determine if the transmitting device is substantially close to the receiving device.

In one embodiment the plurality of antennas may be situated at different physical locations on a device wherein signals e.g. from a same source received at the plurality of antennas may have different characteristics. In one embodiment if there is little or no difference in characteristics of the received signals then it may be determined that the source of the signals e.g. a transmitting device may be at a farther distance from the receiving device. In one embodiment higher number of antennas on a device may allow for analysis and determination of additional information in multiple spatial planes for estimation of more accurate directional and or location information of a device associated with the transmitted signals. In one embodiment one or more processes for the comparison analysis determination and the like may be performed e.g. at a receiving device by utilizing one or more processors algorithms applications and the like. In one embodiment the one or more processes may be performed at least in part by one or more circuits e.g. electronic passive active analog digital etc. 

In one embodiment the system determines a request for interaction between at least one first device and at least one second device wherein at least the at least one first device is associated with at least one first antenna and at least one second antenna. In one embodiment the at least one first device may be a wireless memory tag which may be embedded into a device for example a mobile phone wherein the wireless memory tag and or the device may include a plurality of antennas for receiving transmitting various RF signals. In one embodiment the at least one second device may be user device e.g. a mobile phone an NFC reader a network device e.g. a computer a kiosk etc. an active device e.g. including power processor etc. a passive device e.g. a memory card a memory tag etc. In one embodiment the wireless memory tag may be embedded into a user item for example a bank card an ID card a passport a wallet and the like wherein the wireless memory tag include the plurality of antennas. In one embodiment the request for interaction may be a request for access to read write modify transfer inquire or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the interaction includes a communication via an NFC protocol. In one embodiment the at least one first device the at least one second device or a combination thereof is and or may be associated with a wireless memory tag a passive device an active device or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the system determines a first signal received by the at least one first antenna and a second signal received by the at least one second antenna. In one embodiment a memory tag and or a device e.g. a tablet may receive a plurality of signals from one or more other devices and or memory tags. For example a memory tag may receive a plurality of signals via a plurality of its antennas. In one example a device e.g. a mobile phone may detect a plurality of signals associated with a proximity based communication device e.g. a memory tag another device etc. In one embodiment the first signal and the second signal include one or more data signals one or more power signals one or more reference signals or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the system determines one or more differences in one or more characteristics of the first signal and the second signal. In one embodiment a device may utilize one or more processors algorithms circuitries components digital and or analog and the like to process the plurality of signals for determining one or more characteristics one or more parameters one or more properties and the like associated with the signals. In one embodiment the one or more characteristics include at least in part one or more a signal phases signal amplitudes powers S N ratios and the like. In one embodiment a memory tag may utilize one or more circuitries including a plurality of components e.g. analog to determine the characteristics. In various embodiments the device and or memory tag may determine one or more differences in the one or more characteristics associated with each signal. For example a first signal may have a different phase amplitude power etc. when compared to the characteristics of a second signal a third signal etc.

In one embodiment the system processes and or facilitates a processing of the one or more differences to determine whether to allow the interaction. In one embodiment a device and or a memory tag may allow an interaction requested by another device and or memory tag. For example a second device and or memory tag may be requesting to access e.g. read write modify certain data at a first device and or memory tag. For example a memory tag may disable one or more components in one or more circuitries to disallow an interaction. In one embodiment a device may utilize one or more processors and or applications to deny the interaction.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part one or more comparisons of the one or more differences to one or more threshold values. In one embodiment the one or more determined differences may be compared to one or more threshold values to determine proximity e.g. location of a source associated with one or more certain signals. For example it may be determined that signals from a second device and or a second memory tag which are assumed to be located at a certain distance from a first device and or a first memory tag should have certain characteristics associated with the signals. For example two signals received from a second device e.g. a source device located at a close distance of two to three centimeters away from a first device e.g. a target device should have a phase and or an amplitude difference greater than a certain threshold value wherein if the differences are less than the certain threshold value it may be indicative that the source of the signals e.g. the source device is not necessarily located within that close distance. In one embodiment location and surroundings of the devices requesting interaction among the devices may be suggest certain signal characteristics that should be present when a first device and a target device interact. For example if the first device and the target device are in a large open space e.g. a park the signal characteristics of the interaction may differ from a setting where the devices are in a room.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a discontinuation of the interaction based at least in part on the one or more comparisons. In one embodiment a device and or a memory tag may allow an interaction requested by another user device and or memory tag and later the allowed interaction and or a communication link may be disabled if the one or more comparisons indicate one or more parameter and or characteristic values outside a threshold value range. For example a second device and or memory tag may be accessing e.g. read write certain data at a first device and or memory tag. In one example a memory tag may disable one or more components in its one or more circuitries to discontinue a communication link and disengage from an interaction.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a presentation of a UI comprising one or more indicators one or more messages or a combination thereof for providing instructing information status information or a combination thereof on the interaction. In one embodiment a UI may present a warning that a request for an interaction and or a communication link is potentially fraudulent or is suspicious or is from a remote source device and the like. In one embodiment a user of a target device may be prompted to take certain actions for example to move the target device so that different set of signals may be captured and new characteristics may be determined.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part an estimation of a distance between the at least one first device and the at least one second device based at least in part on the one or more differences. In one embodiment a device may utilize various processors algorithms circuitries and the like to analyze one or more parameters of the one or more differences so that a distance between at least a first device and a second device may be determined. For example differences in amplitude in power in phase etc. may be indicative of the distance.

In one embodiment the system determines whether to allow the interaction based at least in part on the distance. For example if a source device is supposed to be within three centimeters of a user s target device and the estimated distance is calculated determined to be greater than the supposed three centimeters then a request from the source device to interact with the user s target device may be denied.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a presentation of a user interface comprising one or more indicators one or more messages or a combination thereof for providing directional information for at least locating the at least one first device the at least one second device or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a first device may utilize one or more other components for example a gyroscope an accelerometer a compass and the like as well as the determined signal characteristics and or differences associated with signals from a second device to further determine and present directional information for locating tracking the second device. For example a user utilizes a first device to determine location information of a second device and directional information to the other device. In one embodiment the at least one first device the at least one second device or a combination thereof may utilize the one or more indicators and or the one or more messages for interacting with one or more other devices to perform one or more tasks associated with one or more gaming applications one or more entertainment applications one or more educational applications and the like. For example one or more users may try to locate various objects including memory tags placed within certain proximity of a user s location. In one example a user may utilize the presented indicators for improving one or more users abilities to follow directional information.

As shown in in one embodiment the system includes user equipment UE also collectively referred to as UE and or UEs which may be utilized to execute one or more applications also collectively referred to as applications including social networking web browser multimedia applications user interface UI map application web client etc. to communicate with other UEs one or more service providers also collectively referred to as service providers one or more content providers also collectively referred to as content providers one or more POS platforms also collectively referred to as POS platform one or more GPS satellites also collectively referred to as GPS satellites and or with other components of the system directly and or via communication network . In one embodiment the UEs may include data content collection modules also collectively referred to as DC collection module for determining and or collecting data and or content associated with the UEs one or more users of the UEs applications one or more content items e.g. multimedia content and the like. In addition the UEs can execute an application that is a software client for storing processing and or forwarding one or more information items to other components of the system .

In one embodiment the UEs may include a proximity communication PC security module also collectively referred to as PC module for communicating with nearby devices e.g. NFC devices for storing and or transmitting data and or memory tags. In one embodiment a PC module may include a memory tag for storing and or retrieving data from. In one embodiment a memory tag e.g. may also be embedded in and or attached to a device other than a UE for example on a poster at a kiosk in a credit card in an identification card in a memory stick and the like. In various embodiments one or more elements of the PC security module may implemented on a memory tag e.g. whether or not the memory tag is associated e.g. included in UE . For example one or more circuitries and or components may be implemented onto a memory tag for providing the PC security features of the system . In various embodiments the UE the PC module and or the memory tag may include a plurality of antennas for receiving and or transmitting one or more signals including data power reference and the like signals. In various embodiments the UE and or the PC module may include one or more processors antennas circuitries components algorithms software applications and the like for effectuating communications with another PC enabled device e.g. a UE a memory tag etc. and or for processing and analyzing the one or more signals to determine one or more characteristics associated with the signals. In one embodiment the memory tag may include one or more antennas circuitries components and the like for effectuating communications with another PC enabled device e.g. a UE PC module NFC reader etc. and or for comparing and analyzing the one or more signals to determine one or more characteristics associated with the signals.

In one embodiment the service providers may include and or have access to one or more databases also collectively referred to as database which may include various user information user profiles user preferences one or more profiles of one or more user devices e.g. device configuration sensors information etc. service providers information other service providers information and the like. In one embodiment the service providers may include various service providers offering a range of services for example online shopping social networking services e.g. blogging media upload media download media streaming account management services or a combination thereof. Further the service providers may conduct a search for content items media items information coupons and the like associated with one or more users POIs geo locations and the like.

In one embodiment the content providers may include and or have access to one or more database also collectively referred to as database which may store include and or have access to various content items. For example the content providers may store content items e.g. at the database provided by various users various service providers crowd sourced content and the like.

In one embodiment the POS platform may include and or have access to a one or more database also collectively referred to as database to access and or store information associated with various applications contents users service providers and the like. It is noted that the POS platform may be a stand alone entity in the system e.g. on a computer on a server etc. a part of the service providers a part of the content providers included within the UE e.g. as part of the applications or a combination thereof. Further the POS platform the service providers and or the content providers may utilize one or more service application programming interfaces APIs integrated interface through which communication media content and information e.g. associated with users applications services content etc. may be shared accessed and or processed.

The UEs may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset NFC reader station unit device healthcare diagnostic and testing devices product testing devices multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver loud speakers display monitors radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device wrist watch or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UEs can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. Further the UEs may include various sensors for collecting data associated with a user a user s environment and or with a UE for example the sensors may determine and or capture audio video images atmospheric conditions device location user mood ambient lighting user physiological information device movement speed and direction and the like.

In one embodiment the UE includes a location module sensor that can determine the UE location e.g. a user s location . The UE location may be determined by a triangulation system such as a GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin wireless local area network triangulation or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use the one or more satellites to pinpoint the location e.g. longitude latitude and altitude of the UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module sensor may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . GPS coordinates can provide finer detail as to the location of the UE . In another embodiment the UE may utilize a local area network e.g. LAN WLAN connection to determine the UE location information for example from an Internet source e.g. a service provider .

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

By way of example the UEs the service providers the content providers and the POS platform may communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the UEs and the POS platform may interact according to a client server model. It is noted that the client server model of computer process interaction is widely known and used. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others. It is also noted that the role of a client and a server is not fixed in some situations a device may act both as a client and a server which may be done simultaneously and or the device may alternate between these roles.

The control logic module oversees tasks including tasks performed by control logic module the processing module the comparison module the RF module the UI module and the memory tag . For example although other modules may perform the actual task the control logic module may determine when and how those tasks are performed or otherwise direct the other modules to perform the tasks.

The processing module may perform one or more processes associated with one or more signals wherein the signals may be sampled digitized and or processed in one or more methods so that the PC module may further utilize the processed signals. In one embodiment the processing module may utilize one or more algorithms for transforming the signals to one or more digital signals digital arrays digital patterns and the like. The comparison module may compare the one or more processed signals to determine one or more characteristics associated with the signals. For example the comparison module may compare phase amplitude signal to noise S N ratio and other characteristics of each signal to one another. In one embodiment the comparison module may perform the comparison via one or more digital and or analog components. In one embodiment the comparison module may perform the comparisons on signals received via the processing module and or via the RF module .

In one embodiment the RF module may generate and or receive one or more signals for effectuating one or more communication links sessions with one or more other devices. In one embodiment the RF module may present one or more signals to the processing module and or to the comparison module in an analog format for processing and or comparison wherein the processing module and or the comparison module may do the processing and or the comparison via analog circuitry and components. In one embodiment the RF module may include various circuitry and components or receiving and transmitting RF signals wherein the signals may include data power control and or reference signals. In various embodiments the RF module includes and or interfaces with a plurality of antennas for the receiving and transmitting of the RF signals.

The user interface UI module may provide one or more mechanisms for presenting one or more information items e.g. messages indicators location directions etc. to a user and or receive input e.g. selection from the user. In various embodiments the UI module may receive the one or more information items from the processing module the comparison module the RF module and the like for presentation to the user. In one embodiment the UI module may receive an input from the user another module and or a service provider for selecting one or more actions for proceeding continuing stopping denying and the like process steps.

In step the PC module determines a request for interaction between at least one first device and at least one second device wherein at least the at least one first device is associated with at least one first antenna and at least one second antenna. In one embodiment the at least one first device may be a wireless memory tag which may be embedded into a device for example a mobile phone wherein the memory tag and or the device may include a plurality of antennas for receiving transmitting various RF signals. In one embodiment the at least one second device may be user device e.g. a mobile phone an NFC reader a network device e.g. a computer a kiosk etc. an active device e.g. including power processor etc. a passive device e.g. a memory card a memory tag etc. In one embodiment the memory tag may be embedded into a user item for example a bank card an ID card a passport a wallet and the like wherein the memory tag include the plurality of antennas. In one embodiment the request for interaction may be a request for access to read write modify transfer inquire or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the interaction includes a communication via an NFC protocol. In one embodiment the at least one first device the at least one second device or a combination thereof is and or may be associated with a wireless memory tag a universal local storage a passive device an active device or a combination thereof.

In step the PC module determines a first signal received by the at least one first antenna and a second signal received by the at least one second antenna. In one embodiment a memory tag and or a device e.g. a tablet may receive a plurality of signals from one or more other devices and or memory tags. For example a memory tag may receive a plurality of signals via a plurality of its antennas. In one example a device e.g. a mobile phone may detect a plurality of signals associated with a proximity based communication device e.g. a memory tag another device etc. In one embodiment the first signal and the second signal include one or more data signals one or more power signals one or more reference signals or a combination thereof.

In step the PC module determines one or more differences in one or more characteristics of the first signal and the second signal. In one embodiment a device may utilize one or more processors algorithms circuitries components digital and or analog and the like to process the plurality of signals for determining one or more characteristics one or more parameters one or more properties and the like associated with the signals. In one embodiment the one or more characteristics include at least in part one or more a signal phases signal amplitudes powers S N ratios and the like. In one embodiment a memory tag may utilize one or more circuitries including a plurality of components e.g. analog to determine the characteristics. In various embodiments the device and or memory tag may determine one or more differences in the one or more characteristics associated with each signal. For example a first signal may have a different phase amplitude power etc. when compared to the characteristics of a second signal a third signal etc.

In step the PC module processes and or facilitates a processing of the one or more differences to determine whether to allow the interaction. In one embodiment a device and or a memory tag may allow an interaction requested by another device and or memory tag. For example a second device and or memory tag may be requesting to access e.g. read write modify certain data at a first device and or memory tag. For example a memory tag may disable one or more components in one or more circuitries to disallow an interaction. In one embodiment a device may utilize one or more processors and or applications to deny the interaction.

In step the PC module causes at least in part one or more comparisons of the one or more differences to one or more threshold values. In one embodiment the one or more determined differences may be compared to one or more threshold values to determine proximity e.g. location of a source associated with one or more certain signals. For example it may be determined that signals from a second device and or a second memory tag which are assumed to be located at a certain distance from a first device and or a first memory tag should have certain characteristics associated with the signals. For example two signals received from a second device e.g. a source device located at a close range of two to three centimeters away from a first device e.g. a target device should have a phase and or amplitude difference greater than a certain threshold value wherein if the differences are less than the certain threshold value it may be indicative that the source of the signals e.g. the source device is not necessarily located within that close distance.

In step the PC module causes at least in part a discontinuation of the interaction based at least in part on the one or more comparisons. In one embodiment a device and or a memory tag may allow an interaction requested by another user device and or memory tag and later the allowed interaction and or a communication link may be disabled if the one or more comparisons indicate one or more parameter and or characteristic values outside a threshold value range. For example a second device and or memory tag may be accessing e.g. read write certain data at a first device and or memory tag. In one example a memory tag may disable one or more components in its one or more circuitries to discontinue a communication link and disengage from an interaction.

In step PC module causes at least in part a presentation of a UI comprising one or more indicators one or more messages or a combination thereof for providing instructing information status information or a combination thereof on the interaction. In one embodiment a UI may present a warning that a request for an interaction and or a communication link is potentially fraudulent or is suspicious or is from a remote source device and the like. In one embodiment a user of a target device may be prompted to take certain actions for example to move the target device so that different set of signals may be captured and new characteristics may be determined.

In step the PC module causes at least in part an estimation of a distance between the at least one first device and the at least one second device based at least in part on the one or more differences. In one embodiment a device may utilize various processors algorithms circuitries and the like to analyze one or more parameters of the one or more differences so that a distance between at least a first device and a second device may be determined. For example differences in amplitude in power in phase etc. may be indicative of the distance.

In step the PC module determines whether to allow the interaction based at least in part on the distance. For example if a source device is supposed to be within three centimeters of a user s target device and the estimated distance is calculated determined to be greater than the supposed three centimeters then a request from the source device to interact with the user s target device may be denied.

In step PC module causes at least in part a presentation of a user interface comprising one or more indicators one or more messages or a combination thereof for providing directional information for at least locating the at least one first device the at least one second device or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a first device may utilize one or more other components for example a gyroscope an accelerometer a compass and the like as well as the determined signal characteristics and or differences associated with signals from a second device to further determine and present directional information for locating tracking the second device. For example a user utilizes a first device to determine location information of a second device and directional information to the other device. In one embodiment the at least one first device the at least one second device or a combination thereof may utilize the one or more indicators and or the one or more messages for interacting with one or more other devices to perform one or more tasks associated with one or more gaming applications one or more entertainment applications one or more educational applications and the like. For example one or more users may try to locate various objects including memory tags placed within certain proximity of a user s location. In one example a user may utilize the presented indicators for improving one or more users abilities to follow directional information.

In the UI presents to user of device information associated with one or more other nearby devices capable of proximity communications. In one embodiment the UI may present directional information for locating the one or more other nearby devices wherein the information may be based on one or more communication signal characteristics processed and analyzed by the device . In one example a user may choose from a range of options to for example find track the device via find track one or more other devices via and the like. In various embodiments as the user and the device move the presented information and available options may be updated to reflect change in respective location information.

The processes described herein for providing security mechanism for proximity based interactions among devices may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to providing security mechanism for proximity based interactions among devices. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for providing security mechanism for proximity based interactions among devices. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for providing security mechanism for proximity based interactions among devices is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for providing security mechanism for proximity based interactions among devices.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to provide security mechanism for proximity based interactions among devices. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of providing security mechanism for proximity based interactions among devices. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal for providing security mechanism for proximity based interactions among devices. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

Additionally sensors module may include various sensors for instance a location sensor a speed sensor an audio sensor an image sensor a brightness sensor a biometrics sensor various physiological sensors a directional sensor and the like for capturing various data associated with the mobile terminal e.g. a mobile phone a user of the mobile terminal an environment of the mobile terminal and or the user or a combination thereof wherein the data may be collected processed stored and or shared with one or more components and or modules of the mobile terminal and or with one or more entities external to the mobile terminal .

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

