---

title: Aggregation framework using low-power alert sensor
abstract: An aggregation framework system and method that automatic configures, aggregates, disaggregates, manages, and optimizes components of a consolidated system of devices, modules, and sensors. Embodiments of the system and method include a low-power alert sensor, a data aggregator module, and an interpreter module. The low-power alert sensor is a sensor that is continuously on and continuously monitoring its environment. The low-power alert sensor acts as a watchdog and triggers other sensors to awaken them from a power-conservation state when there is a change or event that occurs in an environment. The data aggregator module manages the set of sensors within the system and aggregates sensor data obtained from the sensors. The interpreter module then translates the physical data collected by sensors into logical information. Together the data aggregator module and the interpreter module present a unified logical view of the capabilities of the sensors under their control.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09325792&OS=09325792&RS=09325792
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09325792
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121107
---
People currently use a variety of devices that are connected to the Internet such as computers sensors phones and actuators. Some estimates project the proliferation of over 50 billion such Internet connected devices deployed by the year 2020. These devices are starting to pervade homes workplaces vehicles and public spaces. They watch people listen to people and feel people. Moreover they infer context and action anticipate and mediate interactions between persons and their world and in some cases allow people to be more effective humans.

Many of these devices and their associated technologies are developed independently of one another and use proprietary techniques. Each device is built without thought that the device may become part of a larger collaborative system. These devices for the most part do not communicate with each other in a way that allows them to combine their capabilities with the capabilities of other devices. Moreover these devices can be difficult to deploy and configure. This means that many of the multitudes of devices that are commonly used each day are unable to communicate and interact with each other. Many of these devices use stand alone point solutions of dumb sensing and actuation systems each of which is specialized to do a very small set of isolated tasks. It is highly desirable for these devices to easily interoperate while at the same time being durable and power efficient.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method automatically configure aggregate disaggregate manage and optimize components of a consolidated system of devices modules and sensors. Embodiments of the system and method use selective actuation to identify sensors and devices as they enter and exit from the system. The collective resources of the system are adjusted based on the capabilities of those sensors that are currently part of the system. Embodiments of the system and method can turn off sensors devices and modules that are not needed or not being used in order to save power.

Embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method manage a set of sensors. These sensors typically cover a defined local area. Embodiments of the system and method can be triggered into action by one or more low power alert sensors and remote systems. Sensors may identify themselves to the data aggregator module by means of specific sensor characteristics such as functionality calibration data and power consumption.

Embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method include several components. In particular the low power alert sensor the data aggregator module the interpreter module and the bridge. The interpreter module then translates the physical data collected by sensors into logical information. Together the data aggregator module and the interpreter module present a unified logical view of the capabilities of the sensors under its control to a remote system through a bridge. These elements are connected to the aggregation framework system over communication channels such as a local network or the public Internet. Working together they transform dumb sensors into intelligent systems rooms and spaces. The bridge communicates with the remote system or the cloud . Embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method can be as simple as a low power open source hardware single board computer such as a BeagleBoard or as sophisticated as a PC or server.

A multitude of sensors are in broad deployment. In intelligent ambient spaces or intelligent devices there are already many sensors in use as special purpose parts performing such functions as sensing light sound pressure vibration spatial orientation and so forth. However sensors can be expensive to install and configure in meaningful ways. Assuming that this problem will be resolved as costs of sensors decrease this means that an ever increasing number of sensors will be used. With more sensors come more data and the challenge of how to manage these sensors and the data they generate. This challenge is made more difficult by the fact that sensors generally do not work cooperatively need to be pre programmed with respect to their function and are not particularly intelligent about when to conserve power.

Embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method gather and disseminate data in a power efficient and cohesive manner as compared to existing techniques. Special monitoring sensors operate as low power alert sensors that are continuously or always on and continuously or always monitoring their environment. The low power alert sensor triggers other sensor in the aggregation framework system. These other sensors stay suspended until needed and awakened by the low power alert sensor. Typically the sensors that are suspended until awakened are specialized sensors that have a higher performance and higher power consumption as compared to other sensors in the system.

The data aggregator module manages the set of sensors within the system and coordinates every part of the sensing system. Instead of having numerous sensors communicating individually with a remote system the data aggregator module and the interpreter module consolidate and convert sensor data into reports that are communicated to the cloud through the bridge. Together these components create a collaborative sensing system that can conserve power.

In embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method sensors in the sensor array are able to describe their inherent capabilities and to what events embodiments of the system and method can respond. As a sensor enters the system the low power alert sensor detects this ingress and notifies and awakens the data aggregator module. Having been sufficiently alerted to the addition of a new sensor the data aggregator module then interrogates or queries the sensor to ascertain its function and how it can be used to extend or enhance the existing system. Similarly when a sensor exits the system the low power alert sensor notifies the data aggregator module of this egress. The data aggregator module then adjusts the capabilities of the system accordingly.

The interpreter module interprets aggregated data and makes decisions to determine a course of action based on this aggregated data. Moreover additional sensors can be awakened or powered up by the interpreter module to obtain additional data about the environment. If the sensors are placed in a power conservation state by the interpreter module they typically remain in that state until awakened by the low power alert sensor. The interpreter module can also interpret the aggregated data to obtain a conceptual observation about what is occurring in the environment.

It should be noted that alternative embodiments are possible and steps and elements discussed herein may be changed added or eliminated depending on the particular embodiment. These alternative embodiments include alternative steps and alternative elements that may be used and structural changes that may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

In the following description of an aggregation framework system and method reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part thereof and in which is shown by way of illustration a specific example whereby embodiments of the a aggregation framework system and method may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method aggregate data and devices to create a consolidated system that is able to detect changes and events occurring within an environment and if desired or necessary react to those changes and events. By way of example and not limitation if embodiments of the system and method detect that given a current course and speed a child is about to fall down the stairs the system and method can take immediate action to sound an alarm or activate a child safety gate.

Embodiments of the system and method include a sensor array that contains a plurality of sensors. This sensor array may contain sensors that are the same type of sensor such as a vibration sensor or may be a combination of a variety of different types of sensors such as thermal audio and vibration sensors . Collectively these sensors make up the sensor array . The sensor array is positioned within an environment . This environment may be for example a room office building or city. As noted above embodiments of the system and method scale well.

Embodiments of the system and method also include a low power alert sensor . This low power alert sensor is a sensor that acts as a lookout or watchdog for the entire system . In some embodiments the low power alert sensor is on duty constantly watching for changes or events occurring in the environment while the other sensors devices and system components within the system are asleep or in a low power or power conservation state. Typically the low power alert sensor consumes little power and is continuously connected and on duty. Moreover the low power alert sensor may be a single sensor or in other embodiments may be a plurality of sensors. When the low power alert sensor is a plurality of sensors the sensors may be of the same type or may be any combination of a variety of different types of sensors. The low power alert sensor may be implemented in several ways. One way is to have a typical or power hungry sensor that is turned on occasionally by a low power timer. The low power timer would operate as the low power alert sensor. Moreover the term low power also includes zero power. This includes situations where the low power alert sensor is passive or the energy is harvested from the signal itself. The low power alert sensor may be powered from different properties of the environment including but not limited to electromagnetic fields mechanical energy sources acoustic energy sources and so forth.

Embodiments the system and method also include a data aggregator module and an interpreter module . The data aggregator module also includes a registration module . The data aggregator module interpreter module and registration module are shown in dotted lines to indicate that they are optional modules. This is explained in detail below.

The data aggregator module coordinates the sensor array and the low power alert sensor and any data received from these sensors. The registration module oversees the registration and withdrawal of devices and sensors from the system . In addition the data aggregator module maintains a record of the capabilities of the system given the current registration of sensors and devices with the system their respective capabilities.

The sensor array and the low power alert sensor communicate sensor data to embodiments of the aggregation framework system . This sensor data can be directed to a variety of different modules and devices. In some embodiments the sensor data is directed to the data aggregator module where the sensor data is aggregated to generate aggregated data not shown . The data aggregator module then passes the aggregated data on to the interpreter module for higher level processing.

In particular the interpreter module can interpret the aggregated data and make decisions or determine a course of action based on this aggregated data. Moreover either the data aggregator module the interpreter module or both can determine that a course of action is to awaken or power up additional sensors in the sensor array to obtain additional data about the environment . In some embodiments the course of action may be to place some or all of the sensors in the sensor array in a power conservation state. They would remain in this state until awakened by the low power alert sensor . The interpreter module can also interpret the aggregated data to obtain a conceptual observation about what is occurring in the environment. For example the data may indicate that there is movement in a room and include an identification number of an employee. The interpreter module then would interpret this aggregated data to conclude that a specific employee has entered the room.

Embodiments of the system and method may include any combination of the data aggregator module interpreter module and registration module . In other words some embodiments include all three of these modules while some other embodiments include only two one or even none of these modules. In still other embodiments the low power alert sensor can communicate directly with the sensor array .

Embodiments of the system and method also send and receive information and data from remote systems sensors and devices. This is done through a bridge that is in communication with the data aggregator module interpreter module and the low power alert sensor . Specifically a network connection connects embodiments of the system with a cloud computing environment. The cloud includes a hosted application that can access various services and components through various cloud connections . These services include analytics complex processing storage aggregation and other remote services .

Before proceeding further with the operational overview and details of embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method a discussion will now be presented of an exemplary operating environment in which embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method may operate. Embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method described herein are operational within numerous types of general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations.

For example shows a general system diagram showing a simplified computing device . The simplified computing device may be a simplified version of the computing device shown in . Such computing devices can typically be found in devices having at least some minimum computational capability including but not limited to personal computers server computers hand held computing devices laptop or mobile computers communications devices such as cell phones and PDA s multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers audio or video media players etc.

To allow a device to implement embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method described herein the device should have a sufficient computational capability and system memory to enable basic computational operations. In particular as illustrated by the computational capability is generally illustrated by one or more processing unit s and may also include one or more GPUs either or both in communication with system memory . Note that the processing unit s of the general computing device may be specialized microprocessors such as a DSP a VLIW or other micro controller or can be conventional CPUs having one or more processing cores including specialized GPU based cores in a multi core CPU.

In addition the simplified computing device of may also include other components such as for example a communications interface . The simplified computing device of may also include one or more conventional computer input devices such as styli pointing devices keyboards audio input devices video input devices haptic input devices devices for receiving wired or wireless data transmissions etc. . The simplified computing device of may also include other optional components such as for example one or more conventional computer output devices e.g. display device s audio output devices video output devices devices for transmitting wired or wireless data transmissions etc. . Note that typical communications interfaces input devices output devices and storage devices for general purpose computers are well known to those skilled in the art and will not be described in detail herein.

The simplified computing device of may also include a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the simplified computing device via storage devices and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media that is either removable and or non removable for storage of information such as computer readable or computer executable instructions data structures program modules or other data. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to computer or machine readable media or storage devices such as DVD s CD s floppy disks tape drives hard drives optical drives solid state memory devices RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology magnetic cassettes magnetic tapes magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other device which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by one or more computing devices.

Retention of information such as computer readable or computer executable instructions data structures program modules etc. can also be accomplished by using any of a variety of the aforementioned communication media to encode one or more modulated data signals or carrier waves or other transport mechanisms or communications protocols and includes any wired or wireless information delivery mechanism. Note that the terms modulated data signal or carrier wave generally refer to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. For example communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection carrying one or more modulated data signals and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared laser and other wireless media for transmitting and or receiving one or more modulated data signals or carrier waves. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of communication media.

Further software programs and or computer program products embodying the some or all of the various embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method described herein or portions thereof may be stored received transmitted or read from any desired combination of computer or machine readable media or storage devices and communication media in the form of computer executable instructions or other data structures.

Finally embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method described herein may be further described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computing device. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The embodiments described herein may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by one or more remote processing devices or within a cloud of one or more devices that are linked through one or more communications networks. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including media storage devices. Still further the aforementioned instructions may be implemented in part or in whole as hardware logic circuits which may or may not include a processor.

The sensors in the sensor array are placed in a power conservation state box . This power conservation state is a state that allows the sensors to use as little energy as possible while still being able to come back online or awaken quickly if needed. In addition devices and modules that are part of the system may be placed in a power conservation state or low power state. This includes the data aggregator module the interpreter module and the registration module .

In this configuration each of the sensors in the sensor array and other devices and modules in the system are in a power conservation state or asleep . However the low power alert sensor is fully operational and awake and waiting to detect a change or an event in the environment . Once a change in the environment is detected by the low power alert sensor box then an alert is sent from the low power alert sensor to the data aggregator module box . This alert awakens the data aggregator module from its low power state.

In some embodiments the data aggregator module awakens other sensors in the sensor array from their power conservation state box . In other embodiments the low power alert sensor directly awakens the sensors in the sensor array and bypasses the data aggregator module . Once the sensor array is fully operational it sends its sensor data to the data aggregator module box .

In some embodiment the data aggregator module is used to aggregate the sensor data into aggregated data box . This aggregation means that data from the operational sensors and any other information from sensors or devices in communication with the system are combined into an aggregated data. In some embodiments the interpreter module is used to interpret the aggregated data box . Based on these interpretations the interpreter module makes decisions based on the aggregated data. These decisions include which events are desirable to occur in the future conceptual observations that can be rationally concluded from the aggregated data and a course of action that may be followed. In particular in some embodiments the method includes synthesizing the aggregated data into an event that is desirable to occur based on the aggregated data box .

Alerts to awaken from a power conservation state may be received from a plurality of sources. In one embodiment the request is received from the low power alert sensor box . This alert activates awakens or otherwise powers up the system . In other embodiments the request is received from a remote system to activate the system . box .

Embodiments of the aggregation framework system then determine the nature of the request box . In addition to the request system resources and system constraints are taken into account in order to obtain a request compliance. This request compliance is used to try and comply with the request. One way in which this can be accomplished is by selecting a subset of sensors in the sensor array to collect data based on the request compliance box . In other words sensors are activated by the system in order to obtain the data or information that is being requested.

Sensor data from the selected subset of sensors is received at the interpreter module box . This data is interpreted and organized by the interpreter module in order to comply with the request. The interpreter module then generates a report that contains the sensor data and any additional information to fulfill the request box . This report then is used to fulfill the request box .

The operational details of embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method will now be discussed. Embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method is the overall architecture of how the sensors in the sensor array register with the system report their data aggregate the data and then how that aggregated data is synthesized into an event that is desirable to occur based on the sensor data. Embodiments of the system and method include three main components. Namely the low power alert sensor the data aggregator module and the interpreter module . Each of these components including the registration module will be discussed in detail below. Moreover various other operational details of the system and method will be discussed.

The low power alert sensor is a sensor that is awake and acts as a lookout while other devices and sensors can be placed in a power conservation state or mode. The low power alert sensor is continuously on continuously connected continuously sensing and continuously monitoring its environment . It runs in a low power state and allows higher function devices and sensors to be powered down or placed in a sleep state where they are ready to come back online quickly.

The low power alert sensor is a control concept that activates and deactivates functionality within embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method. In its most basic sense a low power alert sensor can be anything that senses a physical phenomenon or derived event then it actuates and awakens other devices in response.

The low power alert sensor can be virtually any type sensor. This includes sensors that sense properties of the environment such as vibration light movement audio thermal and so on. The low power alert sensor is designed to detect changes in the environment . Moreover in some embodiments the low power alert sensor contains multiple sensors.

The low power alert sensor as well as sensors in the sensor array can include lick n stick sensors. The lick n stick sensors are sensors that are inexpensive and easy to deploy thereby requiring minimal effort and labor. Currently these lick n stick sensors are deployed for non critical applications such as corrosion monitoring steam traps heat tracing safety showers and pump vibrations.

In order to conserve power embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method turn off or place in a power conservation state sensors and components that are not currently being used. However the low power alert sensor remains on. This low power alert sensor is a low power device that can make a determination that an event has occurred or a change of condition exists. The low power alert sensor then wakes up other sensors the data aggregator module or both. In other words it alerts the rest of the system . This wake up includes directly powering up the devices and at times bypassing the data aggregator module . This bypass of the data aggregator module enables a faster response time. Faster response times are desirable for example in the case of alarms.

In some embodiments of the aggregation framework system the low power alert sensor is programmable. Programmable means that a user embodiments of the aggregation framework system or both designate what the low power alert sensor should sense as acceptable parameters. The low power alert sensor typically contains a microcontroller. In this way embodiments of the aggregation framework system provide a program for a low power alert sensor to execute commands. For example if the low power alert sensor detects that a door has been opened then when the door is opened embodiments of the system cause the lights to turn on and a projector to be powered up. This is because a program in embodiments of the system has been written to cause these commands to be executed upon occurrence of a particular event or change in environment .

With the low power alert sensor on watch the remainder of embodiments of the aggregation framework system and any remaining sensors in the system and method can be placed into a low power state. This conserves a substantial amount of power and prolongs the life of the rest of the embodiments of the system and method while simultaneously being instantly responsive and helpful.

When a new device or sensor is added to embodiments of the aggregation framework system the low power alert sensor can communicated with this new sensor and instruct it to register with embodiments of the system. As this is being done the low power alert sensor would also simultaneously bring the data aggregator module out of a sleep state.

The data aggregator module controls manages and collects data from sensors in the sensor array . The data aggregator module controls these sensors as logical devices. The data aggregator module also passes the sensor data collected from the sensor array onto a logical layer such as the interpreter module . An application programming interface API allows the data aggregator module to collect the sensor data from a spectrum of different sensor types. In this manner the data aggregator module manages the producer consumer relationship for sensors.

The data aggregator module then receives sensor data from the powered up sensors in the sensor array box . This received sensor data is aggregated to generate aggregated data box . Any sensors in the sensor array that are not being used are placed into a power conservation state box . This helps conserve power while still ensuring that any changes or events occurring in the environment will be detected and reported by the low power alert sensor . The aggregated data is passed onto the interpreter module box .

The registration module is part of the data aggregator module and is used to register the incoming and outgoing sensors and devices to the system . When a device or sensor enters or exits the system there is a published API that is used to register or de register these devices and sensors with the system . This registration and de registration is achieved without human interaction. By combining and consolidating devices and sensors into a unified system the overall system becomes more intelligent. This registration process also allows dumb devices to become smarter by consolidating their capabilities with the resources and capabilities of the system .

If a device or sensor is joining the system then an alert is sent from the low power alert sensor that the new sensor is joining the sensor array box . Simultaneously the new sensor is asked to register with the registration module and the data aggregator module and registration module are awakened. It should be noted that awakening of any of the sensors devices or components of the system can be instantaneous.

The data aggregator module can also query the new sensor to obtain registration information box . This can be done either through an operating system in the data aggregator module or the published API. The new sensor provides the registration information that includes specific sensor characteristics such as functionality calibration data and power consumption. Once the new sensor communicates this registration information and their capabilities to the registration module then control of this new sensor is taken over by the data aggregator module . The data aggregator module is updated with the capabilities of the new sensor box . This update reflects the addition to the system of the inherent capabilities of the new sensor.

If a sensor is withdrawing from the system then an alert is sent from the low power alert sensor that the sensor is withdrawing from the sensor array box . Simultaneously the sensor is notified to de register with the registration module and the data aggregator module and registration modules are awakened box . The data aggregator module is updated to reflect the loss to the system of the capabilities of the withdrawing sensor box .

In some embodiments the low power alert sensor communicates with the data aggregator module . In other embodiments however the low power alert sensor communicates with other peers. Moreover in still other embodiments two or more peers communicate directly with each other. In general a peer is any type of sensor or device that is in registered with the system . By way of example a phone could be a peer having multiple sensors and can communicate with other peer like a personal computer PC . Or the PC could communicate with a projector that is a peer. It should also be noted that peers do not have to be the same type of sensors or devices. Communication between peers is achieved using standard protocols that are well known to those having ordinary skill in the communication arts. Moreover various permissions and access to various devices can be granted based on identification and the need to know.

By way of example and not limitation in one case assume that a person is carrying an employee badge. When the person walks in to a room where the room is part of the environment of the system then the system knows an identity of that person because of the employee badge that he she is carrying. The PC in the room can then register with the data aggregator module and send sensor data stating that the employee is in the room. Moreover the data aggregator module can access the employee s calendar and note that according to his her calendar the employee is giving a presentation at 3 pm. Moreover the system knows which conference room in which the meeting is scheduled. The system then turns on the projector in the scheduled conference room and the projector is turned on. The system then causes the PC to bring up the presentation and automatically projects it through the projector.

In another example students walk into their classroom and their phones are registered with the registration module . The system can silence each of the students phones or send course or lecture data to the phone or student s tablet. Moreover the system can synchronize a copy of the presentation being given in the classroom and send the presentation to these other devices in the presentation room.

The interpreter module converts the sensor data into conceptual observations. This is commonly called sensor fusion. A sensor array in communication with the interpreter module can detect a single event that is physical or derived. For example assume the sensor array detects a person walking across a threshold of a doorway. The interpreter module would convert this information received from the sensor array into a conceptual observation. In this case the data from the sensor array would provide information that a specific individual has walked in an office. The action because of this interpreted event could be any number of actions. For example in this case the interpreter module would communicate with a light switch as the logical layer and turn on the lights when the specific individual entered the office. The lights would remain on until embodiments of the system determine that the last person has left the room.

This interpretation includes making decisions and determining a course of action to take based on the aggregated data box . In some embodiments the course of action includes powering up additional sensors in the sensor array to obtain additional sensor data about the environment box . Moreover in some embodiments this course of action includes placing sensors in the sensor array that are not being used into a power conservation state box .

The aggregated data can also be passed to a remote system or remote services in the cloud for further processing and analysis box . Any results can be sent back to the system to allow the system to take action based on the analysis. In addition the interpreter module can synthesize the aggregated data into an event that should occur based on the analysis of the aggregated data by either the remote services the interpreter module or both.

The bridge connects the logical subsystem to a network connection such as an intranet or the Internet. In general terms the bridge is a bus and transfers data between computers or components within a computer. In some embodiments the bridge connects the underlying components of embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method to some other network for storage or higher level reasoning.

Moreover the bridge allows components of the system to control the sensor array and collect more sensor data as needed. For example the low power alert sensor the data aggregator module and the interpreter module all can use the bridge to communicate with the sensor array and remote systems. For example the data aggregator module or interpreter module can use the bridge to access a person s calendar and act accordingly. Using the bridge these modules can query devices directly that may contain the person s calendar or other desired information.

The cloud receives information from the system through the bridge . The cloud participates via the hosted application . It performs appropriate analytics aggregation complex processing storage and so forth. It should be noted the cloud may be either a public or private cloud.

Embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method may respond to a request from the remote system. This request activates embodiments of the system to enable a select subset of its sensors to collect data and then to generate a report using logic from the interpreter module . The subset of sensors selected by embodiments of the system is based on the nature of the request the characteristics of the sensors present and other factors such as the amount of power or energy available to comply with the request. The generated report would contain the sensor data and additional information describing the nature and location of the sensors.

These requests made by the remote system may range from simple requests to more complex requests. For example a request may be simple such as requesting a report as to whether a sensor is sensing a vibration. The request may ask embodiments of the aggregation framework system and method to specify a confidence level such as report whether there is a 30 confidence that a person has crossed a threshold. Or the request include a more complex programmed determination such as requesting a report as to whether there is a 50 chance that some higher level of assistance is needed such as if a toddler is about to walk out the front door of a house.

The data aggregator module and the interpreter module may also work together to receive and process information from each controlled sensor to make higher level determinations. For example a remote system may request the position course and speed of an object that can be observed by sensors managed by embodiments of the system and method. In response to this request the data aggregator module may activate a magnetic sensor an accelerometer and a gyroscope gather the data from these sensors and then provide it to the interpreter module . The interpreter module then computes position course and speed information and provides this information to the bridge which reports it back to the remote system.

The low power alert sensor may activate the rest of the system via some signal. In this case the signal from the low power alert sensor is treated as a predefined request for further sensing and reporting. Embodiments of the aggregation framework system then determine actions to take based on the sensor data received from the low power alert sensor the characteristics of other sensors within the control of embodiments of the system and method and other factors such as the amount of power or energy available . For example an image sensor may be configured as a low power alert sensor so that if the image sensor detects a moving object it will directly wake up a magnetic sensor an accelerometer and a gyroscope then activate embodiments of the system to gather the data from these sensors compute the requested position course and speed information and transmit this information to a remote system via the bridge .

Moreover although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

