---

title: Adjustable footrest
abstract: This embodiment relates generally to the Footrest system () to brace a rower under rowing stress when rowing a watercraft (), which allows an operator () to row watercraft () in a safe, ergonomic, efficient, comfortable, and convenient manner. The footrest (), enables the counteraction of oaring forces imparted by rower, while allowing footrest system () to meaningfully adjustable in several independent axis and angle relative to operator () location in watercraft (). An inner guide system () can trap foot board () in a secured fore and aft position, or allow it to slidably travel within watercraft (). An outer guide system () can trap foot board () in a desired angle. The footrest system () also allows the movement and trapping of foot board () in a flat position and in a negative angle and backward position so it can be a meaningful and comfortable leg rest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09216679&OS=09216679&RS=09216679
owner: 
number: 09216679
owner_city: Clackamas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120527
---
This application is the continuation of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 149 385 entitled ROWING RIG filed on May 31 2011 by the present inventor which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Fishing from a paddled watercraft such as a canoe or kayak have become popular activities. Such fishing presents many benefits especially in small shallow water locations where stealth and a shallow draft are almost prerequisites to successfully fish these conditions. The paddled watercraft having a relatively narrow width typically not much wider than to necessitate two people exchanging places in a canoe version is a very maneuverable craft propelled and steered by a paddler in the aft position and sometimes also including a paddler in the fore position. But paddling does not have the same ability to generate speed or to turn the paddled watercraft than if this watercraft was rowed instead. The rowing method is superior because an oar is often twice as long as a paddle resulting in longer leverage. However in order for the rower to row at the highest efficiency the rower has to brace their feet against a fixed footrest so that they can counteract any rowing forces and that they can transmit those forces onto the canoe. This then would remove any sliding sitting forces forces that can contribute to sitting fatigue.

Fixed footrest which fit inside a watercraft is old and well known in the art. These devices are presently available to bear the brunt in resisting the movement of the rower under rowing stress. In more recent times these devices have been provided with attachments and allow such devices to be attached to a paddled watercraft. Footrest are generally configured in a fixed angled position extending from the bottom of the craft in a fixed up and down position and in a fixed fore aft position as well for the rower. Effectively the footrest position and angle in space relative to the rower is fixed. However this fixed settings are often not suitable in providing the most ergonomic and efficient way of bracing all rowers during rowing. Several prior art have addressed these limitations by providing means to adjust the footrest location typically often only in the up and down location and the angle in small angle changes limited to the footrest facing the rower. These adjustments are limited to a modest range simply to fine tune efficiency. Most often these prior art improvements simply address the ease of performing such adjustment but often incurring a loss of an adjustment in order to gain another a dependant change. Additionally most footrest simply perform as a footrest. They are not designed to take the greater stress of a rower rowing and bracing themselves against them.

Additionally because of the limited space in canoes and because a canoe trip often engender picnicking with food and beverages along the occasional consequential nap there is the untapped need to provide a cooking table picnic table and a leg rest that is a known art embodied in a reclining armchair without taking up more space in the already space challenged canoe. Thus it is prudent that the footrest is designed with the multi function ability to also multi function perform to meet these additional activities.

I have found that the current footrest designs are one dimensional as they simply serve the act of being a footrest barring any multifunction use mentioned above.

I have also found that they too have adjustment that are not independent of each other limiting in achieving the highest rowing efficiency and comfort. Because no two people have the same build rowers often require differing footrest locations and angles in order to achieve maximum rowing efficiency and comfort. Although the current art often allows the rower to adjust how high his feet during rowing stroke this adjustment alone is not sufficient enough to fully optimize his efficiency and comfort.

Furthermore because of the dependant relationship between two or more adjustments the current art does not allow him to adjust how far away his feet are from his hip joint without causing changes in footrest angles that rob ergonomics. This diminished level of efficiency and comfort is even more so for fixed seat rowing when the rower has less ability to compensate for this poor ergonomic setup. Additionally this dependant adjustment does not allow him to achieve a knee height position that does not interfere with the low point of his rowing stroke all this while keeping his ergonomic foot rest fore and aft location and angle intact for the greatest efficiency and comfort. This is especially true when the oar is long causing the handle low rowing point to sweep closer to the hull of the boat thus needing to have a lower lap to avoid interference.

Thus it is advantageous to have a footrest system to be adjusted in THREE 3 dimensions up and down Z axis fore and aft X axis and tilt Angle change . It is additionally advantageous for the tilt to be positive facing rower as a load bearing footrest horizontal for use as a load bearing table or platform and negative facing away from rower to act as a load bearing leg rest.

Additionally it is also advantageous to have this multi variable adjustment performed quickly without having to moor the boat i.e. an operation done on the fly minimal downtime and while in the boat . This is particularly useful for switching between rowers of differing statures. Therefore the ability to optimize the footrest setup for a differing stature will allow a quick trade between a first rower and a second rower without causing significant down time in travel.

Additionally it would be advantageous for this multi variable adjustment to be performed without the need for special or even any tools. This reduces the need to carry tools that simply add unnecessary weight to the craft load. Since there is no need for tools this reduces the chance of losing tools that further complicates this adjustment.

In addition to speed this adjustment should be simple highly reproducible and repeatable in recalling prior footrest locations. The obviousness of such adjustment would make it accessible even to the most unseasoned rower.

Due to the tight quarters and cramped nature of canoes and due to the high footrest force during rowing I have found that safety requires the rower to have full control of watercraft in a seated position barring any need to move about. This means he can operate the canoe from his seat giving him a cockpit like effect. Thus I have found that if I can attach a footrest closer to the rower in a way that makes it adjustable but unmovable under stress the rowing operation is safer and uninterrupted in nature. This way he is able to perform any watercraft related task with sufficient clearances and yet find all the contraptions within easy fast and ergonomic reach.

In the adjustable footrest in U.S. Pat. No. 4 277 660 issued to Lemmer only provides independent vertical horizontal and angular adjustments. However the art does not provide a negative angle adjustment nor one high enough or rearward to act as a leg rest especially when it is attached to a body such as a boat as a prerequisite to counteract rowing forces. Additionally it does not provide footrest lateral movement along this negative angle plane. Additionally this art does not provide a fore and aft adjustment independent of height and angle. Rather this art fore and aft adjustment affects height simultaneously. This art is also designed for resting foot during sitting and not sturdy in its locking devices to withstand the bracing forces of a rower. Additionally the art requires many detailed and expensive parts to achieve this independent adjustments.

In the adjustable footrest in U.S. Pat. No. 5 584 535 issued to Jacobson et al dated Dec. 17 1996 only shows an adjustment in vertical direction Z axis and is thus lacking adjustment in the fore and aft direction. Also this art suffers from only having a vertical adjustment only possible by the fixed slots barring any adjustments between them. Additionally although this art provides a negative angle it lacks any sliding movement along this plane barring it from acting as a proper leg rest since the portion of the leg calf that needs to be supported requires a rearward location of the negative angled surface.

In the ergonomic footrest in U.S. Pat. No. 5 419 618 issued to Hatcher dated May 30 1995 suffers the same fates as the above art in whereby it only shows an adjustment in vertical direction Z axis and is thus lacking adjustment in the fore and aft direction an essential adjustment if it is secured to a hull and when there is a fixed seat position for a rower. Also this art suffers from only having an vertical adjustment only possible by the fixed slots barring any adjustments between them. Additionally although this art provides a negative angle it lacks any sliding movement along this plane also barring it from acting as a proper leg rest.

In the adjustable footrest in patent US2005 0187074A1 issued to Barr dated Aug. 25 2005 suffer the limitation of having to change vertical adjustment in order to achieve the desired angle. This dependant nature art also lacks adjustment in the fore and aft direction an essential adjustment if it is secured to a hull and when there is a fixed seat position for a rower. Additionally although this art lacks a negative angle and further lacks any sliding movement along this plane both lackings barring it from being a proper leg rest.

Accordingly several advantages of one or more aspects are as follows the ability to adjust a footrest in the fore aft vertical and multi angle positions in an independent manner for varying rower builds the ability to provide meaningful adjustment range within each adjustment the ability to resist the high bracing foot forces rower imparts onto it under rowing pressure the ability to provide a footrest setting to row the boat ergonomically the ability to perform such adjustments without any tools or high need for skill and training the ability to perform such adjustment without incurring any time consuming downtime such as mooring the ability to recall prior locations in a highly reproducible and repeatable way the ability to fit the art into a canoe of limited real estate from having fixed seats and to function with these fixed seat the ability to not deform a plastic canoe under rowing operation the ability to multi function such as a picnic table and leg rest and the ability to be accessible and within ergonomic reach from a seated rowing position without impeding other functions such as rowing. Other advantages of one or more aspects will be apparent from a consideration of the drawings and ensuing description.

In some aspects an apparatus configured to be used in conjunction with a footrest is disclosed. The apparatus includes a first fitting unit A comprising a first connector and a second connector the first connector and the second connector being spaced between 75 and 105 degrees apart the first connector being coupled with a first support member for connecting the apparatus to a first support unit the second connector being coupled to a second fitting unit . The apparatus includes the second fitting unit comprising a third connector and a fourth connector the third connector and the fourth connector being spaced between 75 and 105 degrees apart the third connector being coupled to the second connector of the first fitting unit the fourth connector being coupled to a third fitting unit A . The apparatus includes the third fitting unit comprising a fifth connector and a sixth connector the fifth connector and the sixth connector being spaced between 75 and 105 degrees apart the fifth connector being coupled to fourth connector of the second fitting unit the sixth connector being configured to be connected to a sliding member .

Optionally the sixth connector is slidably connected to the sliding member wherein the sliding member is slidably connected to an attachment strap and wherein the attachment strap is connected to the footrest.

Optionally the footrest is configured to adjust a position of the footrest in response to a user action.

Optionally the position of the footrest is configured to be selected by by a user from among at least a first position a second position and a third position a line perpendicular to the footrest at the first position being separated from a line perpendicular to the footrest at the second position by between 30 and 60 degrees the line perpendicular to the footrest at the second position being separated from a line perpendicular to the footrest at the third position by between 30 and 60 degrees and the line perpendicular to the footrest at the first position being separated from the line perpendicular to the footrest at the third position by between 60 and 120 degrees.

Optionally the sixth connector is connected to the sliding member at a first end of the sliding member wherein the sliding member comprises the first end and a second end wherein a composition resides at the second end of the sliding member. The composition includes a fourth fitting unit B comprising a seventh connector and an eighth connector the seventh connector and the eighth connector being spaced between 75 and 105 degrees apart the seventh connector being coupled with a second support member for connecting the composition to a second support unit the eighth connector being coupled to a fifth fitting unit . The composition includes the fifth fitting unit comprising a ninth connector and a tenth connector the ninth connector and the tenth connector being spaced between 75 and 105 degrees apart the ninth connector being coupled to the eighth connector of the fourth fitting unit the tenth connector being coupled to a sixth fitting unit B . The composition includes the sixth fitting unit comprising an eleventh connector and a twelfth connector the eleventh connector and the twelfth connector being spaced between 75 and 105 degrees apart the eleventh connector being coupled to the tenth connector of the fifth fitting unit the twelfth connector being configured to be connected to the sliding member at the second end of the sliding member.

Optionally the second fitting unit is coupled to the third fitting unit via a threaded protruding member A .

In some aspects an apparatus configured to be used in conjunction with a footrest is disclosed. The apparatus includes a first fitting unit A comprising a first connector and a second connector the first connector and the second connector being spaced between 75 and 105 degrees apart the first connector being coupled with a first support member the second connector being coupled to a second fitting unit combination of A and A . The apparatus includes the second fitting unit comprising a third connector and a fourth connector the third connector and the fourth connector being spaced between 75 and 105 degrees apart the third connector being coupled with the second connector of the first fitting unit the fourth connector being coupled with a third fitting unit A . The apparatus includes the third fitting unit comprising a fifth connector the fifth connector being configured to slidably connect to an elongated member .

Optionally the first support member is configured to connect with a footrest and wherein a force applied to the footrest does not result in a tipping a tilting or a twisting of the first fitting unit.

Optionally the footrest is configured to be moved in a direction between 75 and 105 degrees relative to a longitudinal axis of the first support member in response to a turning inward or outward of the first fitting unit.

Optionally the elongated member is slidably connected to the fifth connector and wherein the elongated member is connected to a composition. The composition includes a fourth fitting unit B comprising a sixth connector and a seventh connector the sixth connector and the seventh connector being spaced between 75 and 105 degrees apart the sixth connector being coupled with a second support member the seventh connector being coupled to a fifth fitting unit combination of B and B . The composition includes the fifth fitting unit comprising an eighth connector and a ninth connector the eighth connector and the ninth connector being spaced between 75 and 105 degrees apart the eighth connector being coupled with the seventh connector of the fourth fitting unit the ninth connector being coupled with a sixth fitting unit B . The composition includes the sixth fitting unit comprising a tenth connector the tenth connector being configured to slidably connect to the elongated member .

Optionally the fourth connector comprises a revolvable connector and the ninth connector comprises a revolvable connector.

Optionally an opening between the first support member and the second support member is configured to accept an armature for centering the footrest when moving between positions of the footrest.

In some aspects an apparatus configured to be used in conjunction with a footrest is disclosed. The apparatus includes a first fitting unit combination of and configured to slidably engage and lock a first elongated member and to slidably engage a second elongated member . The apparatus includes a third elongated member combination of and rotatably connected to the first fitting unit and pivotally connected to a fourth supporting member the fourth supporting member combination of providing support for the third elongated member. The apparatus includes a fifth elongated member combination of and the fourth supporting member being revolvably connected to the fifth elongated member at the fifth elongated member being configured to slidably engage and lock the second elongated member.

Optionally the fifth elongated member is configured to slidably engage the second elongated member at a plurality of positions and wherein the second elongated member is coupled to a base member via a second fitting unit .

Optionally the apparatus is coupled to a companion apparatus the apparatus and the companion apparatus being symmetric relative to at least one axis wherein the apparatus and the companion apparatus reside within a watercraft wherein the apparatus is configured to accept a first foot of a user and wherein the companion apparatus is configured to accept a second foot of the user.

This right side teaching is repeated for the left side of the figures and vice versa as the embodiment is symmetrically identical on both sides where applicable with the right side optionally coupled to the left side by a Coupling member with the part callout having an A sub part name for the Right side and B for the Left side for teaching purposes. Whenever there is no subpart name it is assumed the right side for left side teaching and vice versa is still preserved.

With reference to the footrest is connected to the rowing rig U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 149 385 entitled ROWING RIG filed on May 31 2011 by the present inventor by connecting to rear base member of said rig. With reference to the foot rest system comprises mainly of an FR outside rail system FR inside rail system and FR static cross member better shown in an FR moving cross member a FR recline system and a foot board .

Right side of the Foot Rest contains the same elements functionality and operations as Left side of Foot Rest. To avoid redundancy all descriptions for the Right side equally applies to the Left side and vice versa except for elements not reflected around the center line.

With reference to FR outside rail system comprise of FR outside rail member connected to FR first 90 degree fitting . Fitting is connected to FR first cross fitting of which connects to Static Cross Member mentioned earlier that slidably engages with FR side member that is described in greater detail further in this section. The members and and fittings and connected together in a non moving manner constitute the First Elongated Member. Fitting is connected to FR first cross fitting that slidably engages with FR side member that is described in greater detail further in this section. FR Side member connects to FR Base fitting where member and fitting constitute Second Elongated Member that revolvably connects to rear base member completing the FR outside rail system connection to Rowing rig .

FR inside rail system comprise of a FR side member that connects to FR base fitting on one end with the other end connecting to FR Cross member 90 degree fitting .

FR moving cross member connects both inner and outside rail system by having 1 having one end of member connect to FR second cross fitting that slidably engages with side member and 2 fitting connected to FR outside rail 90 degree fitting that slidably engages with outside rail where the member and fittings and connected together in a non moving manner constitutes Seventh Fitting Unit .

With respect to The FR recline system comprises of a Board support system a Bracing system and a Kick out system .

The Bracing system comprise of a bracing member connected to FR moving cross member by having one end connected to first bracing fitting that is revolvably connected to cross member . With respect to the other end of bracing member is connected to second bracing fitting that is revolvably connected to Bridge member where the member and fittings and connected together in a non moving manner constitute Third Elongated Member . With respect to bridge member connects the left side of board support system to right side board system .

With respect to and the Board support system comprise of Support member connected to bridge member by having one end connected to BS first 90 degree fitting . BS second 90 degree fitting has one end connected to fitting and the other end connected to bridge member . The support member other end is connected to BS base fitting that revolvably engages with FR static cross member shown in . Fitting is also revolvably engaged with fitting . These members and and fittings and connected together in a non moving manner constitute supporting Member.

With respect to the Kick out system comprises of KO Cross fitting that slidably and revolvably engages with support member . A KO first 90 degree fitting is revolvably connected to fitting . Board tee fitting is revolvably connected to fitting with first threaded member connecting to both fittings and . An anti tilt second 90 degree fitting is revolvably connected to cross fitting . Anti tilt tee fitting is revolvably connected to fitting with second threaded member connecting to both fittings.

The two sides and are further connected to each other with fittings A and B slidably connected to first sliding member and fittings A and B slidably connecting to Second sliding member . Although the one end of the sliding member is shown to be coupled to fitting B in a non sliding manner this connection is shown as a functional equivalent to the sliding version above since it is possible for fitting A to accommodate all of member sliding to remove any binding during the operation.

With reference to foot board is connected to first sliding member by a C shape attachment strap that slidably and revolvably engages with member and is fastened to foot board .

This locks the angle foot board angle to the horizon. A line perpendicular to the footrest is shown in and as to describe this angle to the horizon.

With reference to FR second wirelock pin is passed through holes featured in both fittings and member . With reference to this locks the Board support system Bracing system and Kick out system from travelling fore and aft.

With reference to and embodiments in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 149 385 entitled ROWING RIG filed on May 31 2011 by the present inventor rowing rig is further connected to watercraft by gunwale connection comprising of U bolt passing over front base member with both ends of bolt passing through a V housing and held in place with wingnuts A and B. The housing engages with front member and with a corner defined by gunwale and inside sidewall . This gunwale connection is needed to counteract the forces caused when the foot rest system is under operation.

With reference to the fore and aft location of foot board is adjustable by removing wirelock pin and sliding fitting fore and aft until a desired and new location on member that has both fitting and member holes lined up. Lock down this new foot board location by passing wirelock pin through this set of holes.

With reference to the angle of the foot board is adjustable by removing wirelock pin and sliding fitting fore and aft until a desired and new location on member that has both fitting and member holes lined up. Lock down this new foot board angle by passing wirelock pin through this set of holes.

With reference to a sequence of 5 deployed positions are shown to show the full extent the foot board sequencing from the Lower Angle position shown in to a raised but angle position a flat position a reverse angle but forward position and a reverse angle but rearward position shown in . With reference to both figures a Line perpendicular to the footrest show the angles between the line at these positions are separated between 30 and 60 degrees between position or and or and between 60 and 120 degrees between positions or and .

With reference to a raised but angled position is quickly achieved by raising fitting and snapping in second set of shims that is identical to shims A B and C see also referenced in embodiments described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 149 385 entitled ROWING RIG filed on May 31 2011 by the present inventor onto support member on either sides of fitting . Fitting is trapped from sliding on member by using a combination of shims A B C on either side of fitting that entirely covers the exposed surfaces of member .

With Reference to a flat top position is achieved similarly as with position using shims in a combination that raises and traps fitting high enough so that foot board is resting on the top of fitting in a flat manner. Additionally member swings out around fitting to first swing out position .

With Reference to a reverse angle but forward position is achieved similarly as with position using shims in a combination that raises and traps fitting even more high enough so that foot board is resting on the top of both fittings and and in a reverse angle but forward manner. Additionally member swings out and rotates further clockwise around fitting to a second swing out position .

With Reference to a reverse angle but rearward position is achieved starting with the reverse angle but forward position shown in . With reference to starting with this position member is lowered until it touches member . With additional reference to fitting is turned by 90 degrees with fittings moving forwards in the watercraft into the page . During the procedure of creating position from the Kick out system will automatically and passively remove any binding allowing fittings A and B to revolve around members A and B respectively and fittings A and B to revolve around members A and B respectively. Additionally kick out system allows member to slide in fittings A and B and member to slide in fittings A and B and in C shape attachment strap . This turning of fittings A and B by 90 degrees then moves the foot board rearward to this new rearward but reverse angle position better seen in .

With reference to because the foot rest is a connected part to the rear base member any fore and aft adjustment in the Rowing Rig relative to the watercraft will also cause similar fore and aft changes to the foot rest system position relative to watercraft . This foot rest adjustment still preserves the foot board s angle or position relative to rear base member . This preservation may be beneficial to certain setup changes where changes to the distance between 1 foot board and row seat and between 2 rear base member to row seat are one the same.

Additionally this is even more beneficial when rowing rig is configured to slidably travel fore and aft on the watercraft . Because fitting is adjustably locked into a predetermined distance from fitting by means of the outer rail fitting member fitting and wirelock that travels with fitting . By locking down fitting onto member this also immobilizes fitting onto member without the need to lock fitting down onto member . The benefit here is the Tilt Angle of the board determined by the Line perpendicular to the footrest can remain as an independent adjustment separate from the Fore Aft adjustment accomplished from fitting slidably engaging with member in a removably locking manner.

With reference to for all foot board positions other than position Kick out system is positioned in the manner where the longitudinal axis of threaded members A and B are about perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of support member . Since second sliding member is also coupled to support member B in this position the fitting A is unable to rotate around support member A as this rotation is constrained due to the binding conditions in this position. This is to ensure that an uneven or unbalance force applied to board will not result in tipping the board from having the side with the lesser force lift away from the board support system .

With reference to bridge member can connect directly to BS first 90 degree fittings A and B eliminating the need for BS second 90 degree fittings A and B. This alternative embodiment simply requires fittings A and B to rotate 90 degrees towards the center of the foot rest bracing member to be elongated in length until both ends of member fit and connect into fittings A and B.

Hence the need for kick out system is even more important with this alternative embodiment in order for the footboard now in reverse angle but rearward position in be supported in a robust way with the front edge of the foot board touching down on fitting A and B.

With reference to a self centering feature may be attached to the foot board to keep foot board centered during the operation. The feature comprise of a right and left armature A and B respectively. Both armatures are connected together by armature bridge . The teachings for right armature is identical to the left armature and vice versa requiring a teaching for the right side only to avoid redundancy.

Right armature A comprise of a SC tee fitting A connected to foot board with said fitting tee end connected to SC 45 degree fitting A. A SC side member A connects to the fitting A on one end and to a SC 90 degree fitting A on the other end. Bridge connects to fitting A.

With reference to fitting A and B slidably engages with sliding member whose previous connections are described above. With reference to the feature fits inside the U shape opening defined by support members A and B and member . The feature keeps foot board centered by having members A and B staying inside this U shape opening while cycling between all positions at the same time without interfering the operations of the kick out system .

With reference to both one end of the first sliding member can travel along a top straight line passing through the centers of the one end of the sliding member when cycling the foot rest between positions and from which member moves towards and away from support member . The end distance of member from fitting A is selectively adjustable by the operator since member slides through strap and Board tee fittings A and B. The top straight line is substantially parallel and substantially equidistant to a line normal to the longitudinal axis of the support member as well as transverse to the support member . The longitudinal axis of sliding member remains substantially normal to the to straight line when cycling between positions.

Also with reference to the second sliding member shown in both one end of the second sliding member can travel along a bottom straight line passing through the centers of the one end of the sliding member when cycling the foot rest between positions and from which member moves towards and away from support member . The end distance of fitting from fitting A is selectively adjustable by the operator since member slides through Anti Tilt tee fittings A and B. This bottom straight line is substantially parallel and substantially equidistant to a line normal to the longitudinal axis of the support member as well as transverse to the support member . The longitudinal axis of second sliding member remains substantially normal to the bottom straight line when cycling between positions.

Although the embodiments show connections such as fitting connecting to fitting in connecting non moving members together these members can be coupled together by other methods such as welding epoxy gluing wrapping etc. This eliminates the plurality of connections themselves reducing the assembly complexity less elements reducing the weight as well as cost. Additionally a connection can be made integral to a member communicating with it in a static way when coupled together. An example of integration is injection molding the 90 degree fitting onto front member in . Additionally the fitting can be wholly eliminated if a member can be bent in the same shape as outlined by an assembly of members and connections such as making L shape configuration defined by fitting and member in .

The front base member of rowing rig may be further secured onto watercraft by providing an attaching front base member onto the gunwale using a gunwale connection as show in . This connection is loosened up before rig can move fore and aft before being locked back down in place. This securing member to gunwale is even more important when rowing rig is operating with foot rest attached to it as show in . This connection counteracts any fore and aft and downward forces applied to foot rest .

With reference to fitting connection to member can be made simpler and less complicated with an annular groove in member locking into an annular locking ring in fitting as well as a reverse role arrangement so as to accomplish this rotatable connection.

Additionally screws may be added to further secure coupled parts that are non moving when coupled together.

Additionally front base member can be a V or other similarly shaped support sometimes with a dip inside the watercraft . This change allows better stowage further below the horizontal surface defined from gunwale to gunwale or sometimes improved leg clearances to the foot rest especially in the reverse angle positions and .

Additionally the rowing rig along with footrest can be installed backwards with the rower facing the rear of the watercraft .

Additionally a wire and locking pulley system a known art in ships may be used instead of the shims and wirelock pins and . This would be a more convenient although more costly design to quickly adjust and then lock down footboard adjustment position.

Additionally the use of shims and wirelock pins and can be completely eliminated if a servo motor or a like changes the adjustments controlled by these shims and pins. And that this proposed device either has a locking means or is strong enough to keep these adjustments fixed under rowing stress transmitted to it.

While the above description contains many specificities these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any embodiments but as illustrations of various embodiments thereof. Many other ramifications and variations are possible with the teachings of the various embodiments. For example the rowing rig together with footrest can be mounted on any body of interest for instance to a tractor that has a suspended device such as a pipe that has nozzles sprays along it in lieu of oar lock element in embodiments filed under U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 149 385 entitled ROWING RIG filed on May 31 2011 by the present inventor to dispense chemicals adjusting laterally for differing separation distances between rows of plants. Another example would be footboard might be substituted with skis or a means to stabilize on snow ice or mud or any other environment. Another example may be even replacing footboard with pedals that control an operation directly or remotely.

Accordingly the scope should be determined not by the embodiments illustrated but by the appended claims and their legal equivalents.

