---

title: Contextual use and expiration of digital content
abstract: Technologies related to contextual use and expiration of digital content are generally described. In some examples, a receiving device may connect with a sponsoring device having the digital content. A relationship property defines a relationship context between the receiving device and the sponsoring device. The receiving device may receive the digital content from the sponsoring device and use the digital content so long as allowed, as determined with reference to the relationship property.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09015859&OS=09015859&RS=09015859
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC
number: 09015859
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120330
---
The present application is the US national stage filing under 35U.S.C. 371 claiming priority to the International application PCT IB2012 051549 filed on Mar. 30 2012 entitled CONTEXTUAL USE AND EXPIRATION OF DIGITAL CONTENT which claims priority to India Patent Application Number 562 CHE 2012 filed Feb. 15 2012.

Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Mobile computing devices such as smart phones tablets and laptop computers are ubiquitous. These devices are capable of connecting to networks to download and use digital content as well as interact with other devices. Users rely on mobile devices and the digital content accessed thereby for their work as well as leisure activities. However Wide Area Network WAN connections which provide access to the internet and or other networks facilitating access to large amounts of digital content are not always available. For example WAN connectivity is often unavailable in vehicles such as cars buses airplanes trains and boats as well as in remote areas and areas of poor wireless transmission. Meanwhile in many areas lacking WAN connectivity mobile devices may be able to connect to one or more nearby networks and or devices.

The present disclosure describes technologies including devices methods and computer readable media relating to contextual use and expiration of digital content. Some example computing devices may comprise receiving devices configured to receive and display digital content from a sponsoring device. Receiving devices may comprise a processor a memory a communication device and an authenticator configured to detect a relationship property defining a relationship between the receiving device and the sponsoring device and to allow and disallow displaying the digital content by the receiving device based on the relationship property. For example when the relationship property indicates that the receiving device is one or more of directly connected to the sponsoring device connected to a Local Area Network LAN comprising the sponsoring device and within a predefined maximum distance from the sponsoring device displaying the digital content may be allowed while conversely if the relationship property indicates that the receiving device is one or more of not directly connected to the sponsoring device not connected to a LAN comprising the sponsoring device and not within a predefined maximum distance from the sponsoring device displaying the digital content may be disallowed.

The digital content may comprise for example an application a video file an audio file a text file a file stream or any other type of file. The digital content may comprise a multi user application that enables interaction between a user of the receiving device and a user of the sponsoring device. The receiving device may be configured send and receive digital content interaction instructions to and from the sponsoring device. The digital content received from the sponsoring device may be encrypted and the authenticator may be configured to allow displaying the digital content after taking appropriate security measures for example validating a decryption key using the relationship property and decrypting the digital content.

In some embodiments the receiving device may be configured to receive the digital content and the authenticator from a sponsoring device and to load and execute the authenticator in response to an instruction received from the sponsoring device. In some embodiments the receiving device may comprise an operating system that includes the authenticator. In some embodiments the receiving device may be configured to load and execute an auxiliary operating system and to load and execute the digital content in the auxiliary operating system in response to an instruction received from the sponsoring device along with the digital content. In some embodiments the receiving device may be configured to receive from the sponsoring device a screen feed comprising the digital content.

The receiving device may comprise an operating system that includes a local marketplace tool configured to discover aggregate and display digital content items available from one or more sponsoring devices for which a relationship property defining a relationship between the receiving device and the sponsoring devices allows displaying the digital content items by the receiving device. The receiving device may comprise a payment manager configured to receive payment information in consideration for displaying the digital content by the receiving device. Also the receiving device may be configured to provide an opportunity to acquire the digital content from a source other than the sponsoring device when displaying the digital content by the receiving device is disallowed.

Some example methods and computer readable media may comprise instructions configured to implement discovering by a receiving device digital content available from one or more sponsoring devices wherein the sponsoring devices are those for which a relationship property indicates that the receiving device is one or more of directly connected to the sponsoring device connected to a LAN comprising the sponsoring device and within a predefined maximum distance from the sponsoring device. The discovered digital content may be aggregated and displayed to a user and a user selection may be received by the receiving device. A request for the digital content may be sent to the sponsoring device having the selected digital content and the receiving device may receive the selected digital content from the sponsoring device. An authenticator may detect a relationship property defining a relationship between the receiving device and the sponsoring device providing the digital content and the authenticator may allow and or disallow displaying a digital content item as described above. The received digital content may be allowed to be displayed by the receiving device so long as the detected relationship property continues to allow such displaying and periodic relationship property status checks may be made to ensure the relationship property continues to allow such displaying.

Some example receiving devices configured to receive digital content from sponsoring devices may comprise a processor a memory a communication device and a local marketplace tool. The local marketplace tool may be configured to discover aggregate and display digital content item information identifying digital content items available from sponsoring devices for which a relationship property allows displaying the digital content items by the receiving device. For example as introduced above the relationship property may allow displaying the digital content items by the receiving device when the receiving device is one or more of directly connected to the sponsoring device connected to a LAN comprising the sponsoring device and within a predefined maximum distance from the sponsoring device. A receiving device may also comprise an authenticator configured to detect the relationship property and allow or disallow displaying the selected digital content item.

Some example computer readable media having instructions implementing a local marketplace tool may include instructions configured to discover aggregate and display digital content item information identifying digital content items available from sponsoring devices for which a relationship property allows such discovery aggregation and displaying. For example when the relationship property indicates that the receiving device is directly connected to the sponsoring device connected to a LAN comprising the sponsoring device and or within a predefined maximum distance from the sponsoring device the relationship property may allow such discovery aggregation and displaying.

Some example sponsoring devices may be configured to send temporary use digital content to receiving devices. Sponsoring devices may comprise a processor a memory a communication device and a digital content sponsoring service configured to send temporary use digital content to receiving devices. The temporary use digital content may comprise digital content that is usable at the computing device for example by being displayable and or executable at the computing device when a relationship property defining a relationship between the receiving device and the sponsoring device indicates that the receiving device is one or more of directly connected to the sponsoring device connected to a LAN comprising the sponsoring device and within a predefined maximum distance from the sponsoring device. Conversely the temporary use digital content is not displayable at the receiving device when the applicable relationship between the receiving device and the sponsoring device no longer exists. The sponsoring device may comprise a user device or a server e.g. a server in a mass transit vehicle a building server such as a library server or a private business enterprise server.

In some embodiments the temporary use digital content may comprise a digital content item and an authenticator. In some embodiments the temporary use digital content may comprise a digital content item and an instruction for the computing device to load and execute an authenticator. In some embodiments the temporary use digital content may comprise a digital content item and an instruction for the receiving device to load and execute an auxiliary operating system and to load and execute the digital content item in the auxiliary operating system and to optionally also an instruction for the receiving device to load and execute an authenticator in the auxiliary operating system. In some embodiments the temporary use digital content may comprise a screen feed comprising the digital content and the sponsoring device may be configured to open an auxiliary operating system to load and execute the digital content item in the auxiliary operating system and to send the screen feed associated with the auxiliary operating system to the receiving device.

Some example methods for providing temporary use digital content to a receiving device may comprise publishing by a sponsoring device digital content item information identifying one or more temporary use digital content items receiving by the sponsoring device a request for a selected temporary use digital content item and sending by the sponsoring device the requested temporary use digital content item to a receiving device. The temporary use digital content item may comprise digital content that is displayable at the receiving device when a relationship property allows as described above. Information identifying temporary use parameters such as any required relationship properties applicable to the digital content may also be published.

Some example computer readable media may comprise instructions providing temporary use digital content to a computing device the instructions publishing by a sponsoring device digital content item information identifying one or more temporary use digital content items receiving by the sponsoring device a request for a selected temporary use digital content item and sending by the sponsoring device the requested temporary use digital content item to a receiving device. The temporary use digital content item may comprise digital content that is displayable at the computing device when a relationship property allows as described above.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures may be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and made part of this disclosure.

The present disclosure is generally drawn inter alia to technologies including methods devices and or computer readable media related to contextual use and expiration of digital content. A receiving device may be configured to connect with a sponsoring device having the digital content. A relationship property defines a relationship context between the receiving device and the sponsoring device. The receiving device may be configured to receive the digital content from the sponsoring device and use the digital content so long as allowed as determined with reference to the relationship property.

In some embodiments according to a first computing device of devices may interact with one or more other computing devices and or with first computing device in a role of a receiving device configured to receive and use digital content and any one or more of the other computing devices in roles of sponsoring devices configured to provide digital content to receiving device . Generally speaking sponsoring devices may deliver digital content to receiving device in the form of temporary use digital content that may be used by receiving device so long as a relationship between receiving device and sponsoring devices allows. Temporary use digital content may expire and become inaccessible by receiving device after the relationship between receiving device and sponsoring devices no longer allows as described herein.

There are various technical options for configuring the technologies disclosed herein. Prior to enumerating example technical options in detail however several real world use case scenarios are presented below to illustrate example deployments of the technologies described herein.

First use case travelers on a train. A train traveler Maya has Scrabble installed on her mobile device. There is no internet service available on the train however there is an available train wide Wi Fi service. Maya would like to play with other live players in this case her fellow travelers on the train. However the fellow travelers may not have Scrabble installed on their own mobile devices and may not be able to acquire it without internet service. Using the technologies described herein Maya may sponsor the temporary use of the Scrabble application on mobile devices operated by her fellow travelers. Once the train journey is over and the travelers go their separate ways the temporary use of the Scrabble application may expire. The temporary users may be provided with an offer to acquire the game to convert their temporary license into a permanent license.

Second use case in flight entertainment system. An airline provides a server that stores a variety of digital content such as games eBooks and videos. The server publishes digital content information via an airplane Wi Fi signal. Passengers may browse and select desired digital content using their own mobile devices and receive and display selected digital content in a temporary form at their mobile devices. The temporary use digital content expires when the passengers leave the airplane. The temporary users passengers may be provided with an offer to acquire the digital content prior to leaving the airplane or thereafter.

Third use case tour bus. A group of tourists are on a bus in a remote area. The tourists do not have access to their normal digital content stores such as the iTunes store or the Android Marketplace store and so new applications as well as other digital content such as songs and videos are not accessible. However collectively the group of tourists has a large and diverse number of digital content items on their various mobile devices. The devices can connect through a local digital content marketplace tool to discover digital content stored on other tourists devices and may receive and use such digital content from one another on a temporary basis. Again the temporary users may also be provided with an offer to acquire the digital content.

Referring again to each of computing devices may comprise device hardware such as processor memory communication device and display . These and other aspects of device hardware are discussed in further detail with reference to .

Any of computing devices may be configured to receive and use digital content from a sponsoring device. In some embodiments devices may be configured to both receive digital content and sponsor digital content by including for example the device elements illustrated in . In some embodiments any of devices may be configured to receive and use e.g. display digital content from a sponsoring device but not to sponsor digital content for example by including the device elements illustrated in except sponsoring service . This disclosure uses displaying digital content as an example of using digital content however it will be appreciated that uses that do not include displaying are also within the scope of this disclosure. For example executing software code included in digital content may or may not include displaying the digital content.

Any of devices may be configured to sponsor digital content. In some embodiments any of devices may be configured to sponsor digital content but not to receive and display digital content for example by including sponsoring service but optionally not including local marketplace tool authenticator and or DRM module . In the case of a server supporting a sponsoring service a sponsoring device may optionally also not include display .

It will be appreciated that digital content may take many forms and any form of digital content may be used with embodiments of this disclosure. Digital content may for example comprise an application video file audio file image file file stream and or text file and combinations thereof. Digital content may take the form of an entire digital content item such as an entire file or may comprise some portion thereof such as a stream that includes portions of one or more files or a segment of a larger digital content item. In some embodiments digital content may comprise a multi user application that enables interaction between a user of receiving device and a user of sponsoring device . Embodiments may include features facilitating the interaction of the users via the multi user application or may leave this aspect to the native operations of operating systems of devices and or the multi user application itself.

Receiving device may include authenticator loadable into memory and executable by processor . Authenticator may be configured to detect a relationship property defining a relationship between receiving device and sponsoring device and to allow and disallow displaying digital content by receiving device based on a relationship property status. Example relationships definable by relationship properties include whether receiving device is directly connected to sponsoring device whether receiving device is connected to a LAN comprising sponsoring device or whether receiving device is within a predefined maximum distance from sponsoring device . These are example relationships only and it is contemplated that persons of skill in the art will be able to define additional relationships that are workable within the teachings of this disclosure.

In some embodiments authenticator at receiving device may be configured to detect whether receiving device is directly connected to sponsoring device . As used herein the term directly connected refers to a connection between devices that does not involve any intermediate devices. For example devices may communicate directly by link so long as link does not relay signals from devices through an intermediate device such as a wired or wireless router prior to signals from receiving device arriving at sponsoring device or vice versa. As the term intermediate device is used herein a device may be characterized as an intermediate device if it is not controlled by receiving device or sponsoring device . Based on the preceding statement any device included within a housing of a receiving device or a sponsoring device would not be considered an intermediate device. Similarly devices such as wireless cards and the like which may be connected to a receiving device or a sponsoring device via universal Serial Bus USB and are controlled by the receiving device or the sponsoring device are not considered to comprise intermediate devices.

Detecting a direct connection may be performed in a variety of technically feasible approaches. In some embodiments communication link may be configured to allow only direct communications between receiving device and sponsoring devices and authenticator may be configured to detect the direct connection by detecting that link is active and that sponsoring devices associated with digital content received at receiving device remain available via link .

In some embodiments authenticator at receiving device may be configured to detect whether receiving device is connected to a LAN comprising sponsoring device . A LAN is defined herein as any network that connects computers and devices in a limited geographical area such as home school library computer laboratory office building vehicle such as an automobile airplane bus or train closely positioned group of buildings stadium or other area that is for example 5 square kilometers or less in size. A LAN as defined herein may comprise a so called home network Wi Fi network Bluetooth network ad hoc network Storage Area Network SAN campus network Near Field Communication NFC network Body Area Network BAN Personal Area Network PAN and any other network that is limited in geographical area for example 5 square kilometers or less in size. Devices may establish a LAN over communication link . Authenticator at receiving device may be configured to detect the existence of the LAN and to detect that sponsoring devices associated with content received at receiving device remain available via the LAN. Authenticator may be configured to allow loading and executing the digital content in receiving device when a relationship property indicates that receiving device remains connected to a same LAN comprising sponsoring device as a LAN used when first receiving digital content from sponsoring device .

In some embodiments authenticator at receiving device may be configured to detect whether receiving device is within a predefined maximum distance from sponsoring device . For example receiving device may be Global Positioning System enabled GPS enabled and sponsoring device may share GPS information with receiving device so that authenticator at receiving device can establish its own location as well as a location of sponsoring device . Authenticator at receiving device may be configured to detect GPS locations of receiving device and sponsoring device and to compare GPS locations to determine whether receiving device is within a predefined maximum distance from sponsoring device . Technologies other than GPS may be used in some embodiments determine location it will be appreciated that any technologies whether now in existence or as may be developed in the future may be appropriate for some embodiments of this disclosure.

Authenticator at receiving device may be configured to allow displaying digital content by receiving device when the relationship property allows for example when receiving device is one or more of directly connected to the sponsoring device connected to a LAN comprising the sponsoring device and or within a predefined maximum distance from the sponsoring device . Authenticator at receiving device may disallow displaying digital content by receiving device when a relationship property indicates that receiving device is one or more of not directly connected to sponsoring device not connected to a LAN comprising sponsoring device and not within a predefined maximum distance from sponsoring device .

In some embodiments authenticator at receiving device may be configured to allow and disallow displaying digital content in response to one or more parameters other than a detected relationship property. For example in some embodiments the authenticator may be configured to apply one or more of a time limit and a usage count limit and to disallow displaying the digital content after the time limit or usage count limit has elapsed. In an example scenario a meeting may be scheduled for a particular time and duration and at a particular location. The meeting participants and their receiving devices may or may not be connected to a same LAN. The context of the meeting may be defined by the location e.g. GPS co ordinates the time and the duration of the meeting. Digital content may be sponsored by one or more meeting participants for use by the others. The digital content may be accessible only during the meeting and in the meeting location. After the meeting use of the digital content by the receiving devices may be disallowed optionally even if a receiving device remains in the meeting location due to the lapse of the time specified for the meeting. Use of digital content may also be allowed disallowed according to a usage count either in combination with restrictions according to time location relationship properties or independently.

In addition to or in lieu of allowing and disallowing display of digital content from sponsoring device other forms of digital content consumption may also be allowed and disallowed. For example authenticator may be configured to allow and disallow audio playback using the techniques described herein.

Allowing and disallowing consumption of digital content by receiving device may be achieved using a variety of technical approaches. For example in some embodiments authenticator may be configured to instruct DRM module at receiving device to allow or disallow displaying digital content . DRM module may be responsible for ascertaining whether access to particular digital content is permissible and decrypting digital content using decryption keys when permissible. DRM module may be configured to revoke a decryption key in response to an instruction from authenticator . In some embodiments authenticator may be configured to allow displaying digital content by validating a decryption key using a relationship property and to disallow displaying digital content by revoking the decryption key.

In some embodiments a relationship property that indicates that displaying of digital content is allowed may be specified by sponsoring device and or within temporary use digital content received at receiving device . Receiving device may be configured to allow and disallow displaying digital content by detecting a relationship property specified by the sponsoring device and or within temporary use digital content .

There are a number of example approaches to enforcing temporary use of digital content by receiving device . First in some embodiments receiving device may be configured to natively comprise authenticator e.g. as an application or as a part of an operating system. Sponsoring device may be configured to provide digital content with appropriate encryption and instructions for authenticator at receiving device so that digital content will expire or be disallowed by native authenticator once a relationship property is no longer true. In this case temporary use digital content may comprise digital content along with instructions for native authenticator at receiving device .

Second in some embodiments receiving device may receive digital content and authenticator from sponsoring device . Receiving device may be configured to load and execute authenticator in response to an instruction received from sponsoring device along with received digital content and received authenticator . Authenticator thereafter allows and disallows displaying of digital content . In this case temporary use digital content comprises digital content along with authenticator and any instructions for loading authenticator as a prerequisite to displaying digital content .

Third in some embodiments receiving device may be configured to load and execute an auxiliary operating system e.g. a Virtual Machine VM and to load and execute digital content in the auxiliary operating system in response to an instruction received from sponsoring device along with digital content . This third approach may be applied in combination with the first or second approaches described above. This third approach has the advantage of allowing mobile devices having diverse platforms e.g. Android iOS and Windows Mobile platforms to nonetheless share digital content by employing virtual machines equipped to operate with digital content .

Fourth in some embodiments receiving device may be configured to receive from sponsoring device a screen feed comprising digital content . In some embodiments the screen feed may be produced by an auxiliary operating system instance loaded at sponsoring device . Receiving device may be configured to send digital content interaction instructions to sponsoring device and sponsoring device may be configured to process receiving device interactions with digital content and update the screen feed accordingly. The screen feed will generally be lost when a communication link between devices becomes inoperable and authenticator at receiving device may configured to operate in such embodiments as a backup that guarantees expiration of received content and or to otherwise limit the use of digital content included in the screen feed at receiving device .

In some embodiments devices may include a local marketplace tool . In general local marketplace tool may be configured to discover aggregate and display at receiving device digital content item information identifying one or more digital content items available from one or more sponsoring devices for which a relationship property defining a relationship between receiving device and one or more sponsoring devices allows displaying the digital content items by receiving device as described above. For example local marketplace tool at receiving device may discover aggregate and display digital content item information identifying digital content in temporary use digital content cloud in particular digital content and because digital content is already at receiving device and therefore the user of receiving device does not need to be made aware of availability of digital content . In some embodiments local marketplace tool may provide a limited substitute digital content marketplace at receiving device that may lack a broad network connection providing access to large digital content marketplaces such as iTunes or Android Market. Digital content available from local marketplace tool may include digital content available from devices to with which receiving device can connect in a particular context and use of digital content available from local marketplace tool may be limited to the particular context as defined by a relationship property.

Local marketplace tool may be included as a part of an operating system included in receiving device or may be included in receiving device as a separate freestanding application. Local marketplace tool may be configured to retrieve via communication device a selected digital content item e.g. digital content . Local marketplace tool may be configured to load an authenticator and or other elements allowing receiving device to temporarily access retrieved digital content . For example local marketplace tool may be configured to load and execute authenticator as a precondition to displaying digital content . Authenticator may in some embodiments be received from sponsoring device along with digital content item as described above. Local marketplace tool may be configured to load and execute an auxiliary operating system and to load and execute a digital content item with the auxiliary operating system as discussed above. Local marketplace tool may additionally or alternatively be configured to connect receiving device with a screen feed from sponsoring device the screen feed comprising digital content .

In embodiments where a receiving device comprising local marketplace tool authenticator may be configured to detect a relationship property defining a relationship with sponsoring device in response to user selection of a digital content item from digital content item information displayed by local marketplace tool at receiving device . Authenticator may be configured to allow or disallow displaying the selected digital content item according to whether the relationship property allows or disallows displaying the selected digital content item as described above.

With or without local marketplace tool in receiving device authenticator may be configured to detect a relationship property during display of a digital content item and authenticator may be configured to allow or disallow further displaying the selected digital content item according to whether the relationship property allows or disallows displaying the selected digital content item. For example authenticator may be configured to make periodic detection attempts to validate the relationship property so long as temporary use digital content is displayed.

In some embodiments local marketplace tool may be configured to receive and display price information with digital content item information. Local marketplace tool may be configured to provide a UI configured to receive payment information. Local marketplace tool may be configured to queue and or execute a payment in consideration for temporary use of exchanged digital content. For example temporary use of digital content may comprise renting digital content. In such embodiments owners of digital content may associate temporary use price metadata with digital content and local marketplace tool may be configured to extract and display the temporary use price metadata.

In some embodiments local marketplace tool may be configured to provide an opportunity to acquire digital content from a source other than a sponsoring device. For example local marketplace tool may be configured to provide a UI prompting purchase or other acquisition of digital content after receiving device is no longer permitted to use the digital content under its temporary use license i.e. when displaying the digital content by receiving device is disallowed. In some embodiments the UI prompting purchase may be provided when digital content such as a video was not watched through to the end or for example if a game was not played through the end thereof. In some embodiments a UI prompting purchase may be provided when digital content such as a game or other application was used under a temporary license at least some predefined threshold amount as defined by time or number of interactions. In some embodiments payment and or acquisition prompt features described above in connection with local marketplace tool may be provided in another element such as a payment manager and or authenticator .

Turning now to a discussion of aspects of sponsoring devices a computing device such as for example device may be configured as a sponsoring device by including inter alia digital content sponsoring service . Digital content sponsoring service may be configured to publish digital content item information identifying one or more temporary use digital content items such as digital content item . Sponsoring service may be configured to receive a request for a selected temporary use digital content item. Sponsoring service may be configured to send in response to the received request temporary use digital content to receiving device wherein temporary use digital content comprises selected digital content that is displayable at receiving device when a relationship property defining a relationship between receiving device and sponsoring device allows. For example as described above the relationship property may allow displaying digital content when it indicates that receiving device is one or more of directly connected to sponsoring device connected to a LAN comprising sponsoring device and within a predefined maximum distance from sponsoring device . A relationship property may disallow displaying digital content and digital content may be not displayable at receiving device when the relationship property defining a relationship between receiving device and sponsoring device indicates that receiving device is one or more of not directly connected to sponsoring device not connected to a LAN comprising sponsoring device or not within a predefined maximum distance from sponsoring device .

In some embodiments sponsoring service may be configured to publish price information with digital content item information. Prior to sending digital content to a receiving device sponsoring service may be configured to provide a UI configured to receive payment information. Sponsoring service may be configured to queue and or execute a payment in consideration for temporary use of digital content. For example temporary use of digital content may comprise renting digital content. In such embodiments owners of digital content may associate temporary use price metadata with digital content and sponsoring service may be configured to extract and display the temporary use price metadata and to process digital content rental payments.

In some embodiments sponsoring device may comprise a mobile device that is configured for personal use such as a small form factor device that can be carried in a pocket briefcase or purse. In other embodiments sponsoring device may comprise a larger form factor server that is not configured to be carried about. For example sponsoring device may comprise a server in a mass transit vehicle a building server such as a library server or a private business enterprise server. A server may be dedicated to providing temporary use digital content. In a mass transit setting temporary use digital content may be provided for entertainment of passengers with an option to purchase content upon arrival at a destination. In a library server temporary use digital content may be usefully limited to patrons that are physically within a library. Similarly temporary use digital content may be usefully limited to occupants of any common location such as a building or park. In a private business enterprise server certain proprietary or confidential temporary use digital content may be advantageously restricted so that employees may access digital content on business premises and may not access digital content from locations outside business premises.

Sponsoring device may be configured to arrange temporary use digital content according any configuration discussed herein. For example temporary use digital content may comprise digital content item and authenticator so that receiving device loads authenticator along with digital content item . Temporary use digital content may comprise digital content item and an instruction for receiving device to load and execute an auxiliary operating system and to load and execute the digital content item in the auxiliary operating system. Temporary use digital content may comprise a screen feed comprising digital content and sponsoring device may be configured to open an auxiliary operating system to load and execute digital content item in the auxiliary operating system and to send the screen feed associated with the auxiliary operating system to receiving device .

Depending on the desired configuration processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. Processor may include one or more levels of caching such as a level one cache and a level two cache a processor core and registers . The processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. A memory controller may also be used with processor or in some implementations memory controller may be an internal part of processor .

Depending on the desired configuration system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory typically includes an operating system one or more applications and program data . Operating system and or applications may include for example local marketplace tool sponsoring service and or authenticator . DRM modules not shown in are typically though not necessarily included in operating system .

Program data may include digital content that may be provided to other devices such as by sponsoring service when device functions as a sponsoring device. It will be appreciated with the benefit of this disclosure that the features of local marketplace tool sponsoring service and or authenticator disclosed herein may be rearranged and combined in a large variety of different ways. This disclosure contemplates the possibility of moving any of the disclosed features into any of described software elements as may be necessary or convenient for particular embodiments.

Computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and any required devices and interfaces. For example computing device may include a GPS unit for determining location as well as software configured to determine locations of other devices. A bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . The data storage devices may be removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store the desired information and that may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. output interfaces peripheral interfaces and communication interfaces to the basic configuration via the bus interface controller . Example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display e.g. display in or speakers via one or more A V ports . Example peripheral interfaces may include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate through either wired or wireless connections with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . Other conventional I O devices may be connected as well such as a mouse keyboard and so forth. An example communications device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication via one or more communication ports .

Computing device may be implemented as any device type including for example a smart phone a laptop or desktop computer a server computer a tabletop or other display a television a stereo system an on board vehicle computer a small form factor portable or mobile electronic device such as a cell phone personal data assistant PDA personal media player device wireless web watch device and or personal headset device an application specific device and or or a hybrid device that may include any of the above functions.

In accordance with example methods may comprise a discovery operation including discovering by receiving device digital content available from one or more sponsoring devices wherein the available sponsoring devices are those for which a relationship property indicates that receiving device is one or more of directly connected to sponsoring device connected to a LAN comprising sponsoring device and within a predefined maximum distance from sponsoring device . In some embodiments discovery may include one or more of publication of digital content information by sponsoring device and discovery aggregation and display of published digital content by local marketplace tool . In some embodiments specialized tools or software need not be involved in discovery . For example a message board may allow users to post and discover digital content available from sponsoring devices.

A user of receiving device may select discovered digital content and local marketplace tool may be configured to initiate a request payment operation in response to the user selection. When payment is not required local marketplace tool may be configured to request the selected digital content from a sponsoring device having the selected digital content. When payment is required local marketplace tool may present a payment UI to a user at receiving device receive payment information via the payment UI and send received payment information to sponsoring device .

In operation sponsoring service may be configured to send requested digital content to receiving device . Sponsoring service may be configured to send digital content in the form of temporary use digital content for example by including such additional executable code with digital content as necessary to ensure that digital content is disabled when a relationship property is no longer valid or by sending digital content in such a form that it automatically becomes unavailable or inaccessible when the relationship property is no longer valid. Embodiments of temporary use digital content may for example include authenticator along with digital content . Embodiments of temporary use digital content may provide prerequisite instructions along with digital content the prerequisite instructions for example requiring operation of authenticator at receiving device in order to access digital content .

In operations authenticator may be configured to detect a relationship property defining a relationship of receiving device with sponsoring device and to allow and or disallow displaying digital content item as described above. For example authenticator may be configured to detect in operation whether the relationship property continues to allow displaying digital content . In an example in which the relationship property allows continued displaying of digital content authenticator may be configured to allow DRM module to display digital content in operation e.g. by providing DRM module with an updated decryption key indicating that the relationship property remains valid. Alternatively in some embodiments authenticator may be configured to allow DRM module to display digital content in operation by not taking action to disallow the displaying of digital content or by sending a status update to DRM module . Similarly authenticator may be configured to detect in operation whether the relationship property continues to allow displaying digital content . If the relationship property continues to allow authenticator may be configured to allow DRM module to continue to display digital content in operation .

Similarly authenticator may be configured to detect in operation whether the relationship property continues to allow displaying digital content . However in this example detection in operation results in a determination that the relationship property disallows displaying digital content in operation . Therefore authenticator may be configured to disallow displaying digital content in operation for example by revoking a decryption key used by DRM module or otherwise notifying DRM module that digital content has been disallowed. DRM module may be configured to enforce termination of displaying digital content by player and or display and to either delete or prevent subsequent unlicensed access to digital content by receiving device .

In certain blocks are illustrated as being performed sequentially. The blocks of local marketplace tool are illustrated first and the blocks of authenticator are illustrated last. It will be appreciated that the blocks may be re ordered as convenient to suit particular embodiments and that these blocks or portions thereof may be performed concurrently in some embodiments. It will also be appreciated that in some examples various blocks may be eliminated divided into additional blocks and or combined with other blocks.

In Local Marketplace Tool block local marketplace tool may be configured to operate in response to a user command. Block may initiate Discovery Aggregation and Display block . Block may be configured to make sponsoring service calls to any available sponsoring devices. For example a discovery message may be broadcast via a Wi Fi signal wherein the discovery message is configured for reception by sponsoring services. Block may be configured to receive digital content information from available responding sponsoring devices to aggregate the digital content information into a local marketplace tool UI at receiving device and to display the local marketplace tool UI with the aggregated digital content information. Block may be followed by block .

In Request Payment Processing block local marketplace tool may be configured to receive a user selection of digital content from the local marketplace tool UI displayed by block . Block may be configured to initiate a request and or payment in response to the user selection. When payment is not required block may be configured to request the selected digital content from the sponsoring device having the selected digital content by a call to sponsoring service of an appropriate sponsoring device wherein the call includes digital content identification information. When payment is required block may be configured to present a payment UI at receiving device and to receive payment information via the payment UI and to send the payment information to the sponsoring device having the digital content. Alternatively block may secure an authorization to process a payment at a later time e.g. when the receiving device is again connected to a Wide Area Network WAN or other network generally allowing internet access. Block may be configured to receive the requested digital content and to load and execute authenticator to allow or disallow displaying digital content. Block may be followed by block .

In Authenticator block authenticator may be loaded and executed in receiving device as a prerequisite to allowing display of the digital content received from sponsoring device . Authenticator may be configured launch a Detect block . Detect block may be configured to detect a relationship property defining a relationship between receiving device and sponsoring device . As discussed herein example relationships definable by relationship properties include whether receiving device is directly connected to sponsoring device whether receiving device is connected to a LAN comprising sponsoring device and whether receiving device is within a predefined maximum distance from sponsoring device . In some embodiments the relationship property detected by block may be specified by instructions or information received with digital content. In some embodiments the relationship property may encompass any of several defined relationships and displaying received digital content may be allowed so long as a relationship existing at a time of receiving digital content remains intact. Relationship property detection may comprise performing a network discovery operation. In some embodiments block may be configured to detect a relationship by sending a message to sponsoring device awaiting a response and analyzing response properties. For example Internet Protocol IP packet properties may be analyzed to determine aspects of a relationship between receiving device and sponsoring device . Block may perform detection operations at any frequency for example detection operations may be performed at any frequency from once per second to once per several minutes. Block may be followed by block .

In Allow Disallow block authenticator may be configured to allow and or disallow displaying digital content in response to a detected relationship property. For example when authenticator detects in block that receiving device remains directly connected to sponsoring device connected to a LAN comprising sponsoring device and or within a predefined maximum distance from sponsoring device or otherwise remains within a permitted defined relationship with sponsoring device block may be configured to allow displaying digital content. When authenticator detects in block that a permitted defined relationship between receiving device and sponsoring device no longer exists block may be configured to disallow displaying digital content. In some embodiments block may be configured to operate in conjunction with DRM module . In some embodiments block may be configured to operate in conjunction with player and received digital content may be deleted scrambled or otherwise disabled after display is disallowed. Block may be followed by block .

In Offer block authenticator may be configured to provide an opportunity for a permanent license to the received digital content. In some embodiments authenticator may be configured to pass control back to local marketplace tool for performance of block . Block may be configured to provide a UI prompting purchase other acquisition of digital content after displaying the digital content is disallowed. Like block block may be configured to present a payment UI at receiving device and to receive payment information via the payment UI and to send received payment information to a sponsoring device sponsoring exchanged digital content. Alternatively block may be configured to secure an authorization to process a payment at a later time e.g. when receiving device is again connected to a Wide Area Network WAN or other network generally allowing internet access. In some embodiments block may be configured to provide a UI prompting digital content purchase when digital content such as a video was not watched through to the end thereof. In some embodiments block may be configured to provide a UI prompting digital content purchase when digital content such as a game or other application was used under temporary license at least some predefined threshold amount as defined by digital content display time or number of interactions with digital content.

In the blocks are illustrated as being performed sequentially with block first and block last. It will be appreciated that the blocks may be re ordered as convenient to suit particular embodiments and that these blocks or portions thereof may be performed concurrently in some embodiments. It will also be appreciated that in some examples various blocks may be eliminated divided into additional blocks and or combined with other blocks.

In Sponsoring Service block sponsoring service may be configured to manage operations of blocks . In some embodiments sponsoring service may be launched in response to a user command. In some embodiments sponsoring service may be launched automatically along with an operating system OS . For example when sponsoring device is configured as a server sponsoring service may be launched automatically with a server OS. In some embodiments sponsoring service may be launched automatically in response to certain conditions e.g. in response to the loss of a WAN connection by sponsoring device and or in response to detection of signals from local marketplace tool at receiving device . Once sponsoring service is launched block may begin with loading and executing block .

In Publication block sponsoring service may be configured to publish digital content item information identifying one or more temporary use digital content items. In some embodiments a user of sponsoring device may select those digital content items he wishes to publish and block may be configured to receive user publication selections. In some embodiments digital content may include temporary use permissions and block may be configured to publish those digital content items having a permission flag. The published digital content information may identify digital content by title author file name description an image such as an icon or other identifying information. In some embodiments published digital content information may include additional information such as price metadata OS requirements for devices receiving and displaying the content relationship property requirements and or other temporary use parameters defining allowable uses of digital content. In some embodiments block may be configured to publish digital content information by making digital content information available to any device upon request e.g. via an Application Programming Interface API provided by sponsoring service . In some embodiments block may be configured to publish digital content information by posting digital content information to a message board or other location accessible from other devices. In some embodiments block may be configured to publish information by broadcasting either continuously or intermittently a wireless signal including digital content item information. Block may be followed by block .

In Request Payment Processing block sponsoring service may be configured to receive a request for a selected temporary use digital content item selected from the published digital content item information and to process any required payment. In some embodiments receiving a request may comprise receiving a call from receiving device to an API provided by sponsoring service . In some embodiments receiving a request may comprise receiving a command via a UI provided by sponsoring service . For example a user of sponsoring device may request sponsoring service to provide digital content to receiving device . In either case a received call or request may include digital content identification information and receiving device information. Processing a payment may comprise requesting and or receiving payment information in consideration for temporary use digital content and completing payment or storing payment information for later payment completion. Block may be followed by block .

In Configure Temporary use Digital Content block sponsoring service may be arranged to configure a selected temporary use digital content item for transmission to a receiving device. In some embodiments temporary use digital content items may be preconfigured by sponsoring device and or sponsoring service and operations of block need not be done in real time. In some embodiments temporary use digital content items may be configured in real time in response to individual requests for digital content. Configuring temporary use digital content items may comprise combining a selected digital content item with executable instructions or otherwise placing or transmitting the selected digital content item in a form that enforces temporary use of the selected digital content at a receiving device.

In some embodiments block may be configured to combine the selected digital content with an authenticator wherein the authenticator is configured for execution at a receiving device. In some embodiments block may be configured to define a required relationship property for use by an authenticator e.g. authenticator as authenticator executes at receiving device and to combine the relationship property with the selected digital content. In some embodiments block may configured to combine the selected digital content with an instruction for receiving device to load and execute an auxiliary operating system and to load and execute the digital content item in the auxiliary operating system and optionally to load and execute authenticator in the auxiliary operating system.

In some embodiments block may be configured to generate and a screen feed comprising the requested digital content item. For example block may be configured to open an auxiliary operating system to load and execute the digital content item in the auxiliary operating system and to send a screen feed associated with the auxiliary operating system to receiving device . Also in some embodiments sponsoring service may be configured to load software at sponsoring device the software configured to receive and interact with digital content displayed at receiving device . Block may be followed by block .

In Send Temporary use Digital Content block sponsoring service may be configured to send selected temporary use digital content as configured in block to receiving device . As noted herein sending selected temporary use digital content may comprise receiving by sponsoring device a request for selected temporary use digital content and in response to the request sending by sponsoring device the selected temporary use digital content item to a receiving device associated with the received request wherein the temporary use digital content item comprises digital content that is displayable at receiving device when a relationship property defining a relationship between receiving device and sponsoring device allows. The relationship property may allow displaying digital content for example when the relationship property indicates that receiving device is one or more of directly connected to sponsoring device connected to a local LAN comprising sponsoring device and or within a predefined maximum distance from sponsoring device . The relationship property may disallow displaying digital content and the digital content may not be displayable at receiving device for example when the relationship property indicates that receiving device is one or more of not directly connected to sponsoring device not connected to a LAN comprising sponsoring device and or not within a predefined maximum distance from sponsoring device . Sending temporary use digital content may comprise serializing and sending digital content via wired or wireless communication link . Block may be followed by block .

In Detection Support block sponsoring service may be configured to support detection operations of a device that receives and displays the digital content sent from the sponsoring service . For example certain detection operations may include communications between receiving device and sponsoring device . Block may be configured to receive detection communications from receiving device and to respond by sending information configured to allow authenticator at the receiving device to determine relationship property status. Block may be followed by block .

In Offer block sponsoring service may be configured to send to a receiving device that is provided with temporary use digital content an offer to sell a permanent license for the digital content. In some embodiments block may be configured to provide a payment UI and to receive payment information via the payment UI. In some embodiments block may be configured to execute just prior to an expected relationship termination for example anywhere from 1 minute to 30 minutes prior to expected relationship termination. In the case of an airplane or other transportation server block may be configured to execute prior to arrival of a vehicle at its destination. As described above block may be configured to complete payments and or store payment information for later completion.

In the blocks and are illustrated as being as grouped within block . It will be appreciated that the blocks may be re ordered or located outside block as convenient to suit particular embodiments and that these blocks or portions thereof may be performed concurrently in some embodiments. It will also be appreciated that in some examples various blocks may be eliminated divided into additional blocks and or combined with other blocks.

 Temporary use Digital Content block may comprise digital content and various other instructions and information to ensure temporary use of digital content at receiving device . Block may comprise a package that is configured for example by block in and sent by sponsoring device to receiving device via a communication link .

 Digital Content block may comprise any digital content such as one or more application files videos streams text multimedia and or audio files as described herein. Block may include a portion of a digital content item or an entire item. In some embodiments digital content in block may be encrypted and may be decryptable by authenticator and or DRM module interacting with an authenticator .

 Price Metadata block may comprise a number field that identifies a price for temporary use of digital content . Launch Instructions block may comprise instructions configured to load authenticator to access digital content .

In some embodiments block may comprise instructions configured to launch an auxiliary operating system launch authenticator within the auxiliary operating system and display digital content by the auxiliary operating system so long as authenticator allows. Authenticator block may include an authenticator as described herein. It should be noted that block need not be included in block in embodiments including authenticator natively at receiving device . Relationship Property Requirement block may include any relationship property that may be required to allow displaying digital content within temporary use digital content . Block may furthermore include for example a detection frequency requirement and any reporting requirements describing use of digital content at receiving device .

In embodiments according to temporary use digital content need not include an authenticator due to the presence of native authenticator A at receiving device . Launch instructions may comprise instructions decryption keys or other data configured to launch and or configure native authenticator A so that native authenticator A may access digital content . Launch instructions may furthermore contain instructions for configuring native authenticator A to detect relationship properties according to relationship property requirement .

In embodiments according to temporary use digital content includes authenticator B and launch instructions may be configured to launch the authenticator B at receiving device thereby loading an instance of the received authenticator B at receiving device . Launch instructions may comprise instructions decryption keys and or other data configured to launch and or configure received authenticator B so that received authenticator B may provide access to digital content . Launch instructions may furthermore contain instructions configuring received authenticator B to detect relationship properties according to relationship property requirement .

In embodiments according to temporary use digital content may or may not include authenticator depending for example upon whether there is a native authenticator at receiving device . Launch instructions may be configured to launch auxiliary OS and to launch authenticator either native or received within OS . Launch instructions may comprise instructions decryption keys and or other data configured to launch and or configure authenticator so that authenticator may access digital content . Launch instructions may furthermore contain instructions configuring authenticator to detect relationship properties according to relationship property requirement .

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software may become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein may be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples may be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part may be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein may be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems. The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures may be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality may be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermediate components. Likewise any two components so associated may also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated may also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically connectable and or physically interacting components wirelessly connectable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically connectable and or logically interacting components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art may translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

While certain example techniques have been described and shown herein using various methods devices and systems it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various other modifications may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from claimed subject matter. Additionally many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation to the teachings of claimed subject matter without departing from the central concept described herein. Therefore it is intended that claimed subject matter not be limited to the particular examples disclosed but that such claimed subject matter also may include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

