---

title: Automatically testing a program executable on a graphics card
abstract: A graphics program executable on a graphics card is automatically tested. The graphics program is received at a computing device, and a test graphics program is generated based on the received graphics program. The test graphics program includes one or more additional instructions. The test graphics program is configured to execute the instructions of the received graphics program to generate an execution result, compare the execution result to a test value to generate a test result, and output the test result via the graphics card, where the test result is indicative of the test result. The test graphics program is executed on the graphics card, and the test result is automatically processed to provide, via the computing device, a test run indication corresponding to the test result.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08842123&OS=08842123&RS=08842123
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08842123
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121018
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 628 215 filed on Oct. 26 2011 entitled Testing Graphics Card Programs the disclosure of which is hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to the following commonly owned applications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 654 798 entitled Declarative Interface for Developing Test Cases for Graphics Programs U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 654 810 entitled Event Logging Mechanism for a Program Executing on a Graphics Card and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 654 821 entitled Automatically Testing Compatibility between a Graphics Card and a Graphics Program all filed on the same day as the present application and all hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates to developing programs for graphics card and more particularly to automatically testing programs executable on graphics cards.

The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally presenting the context of the disclosure. Work of the presently named inventor to the extent it is described in this background section as well as aspects of the description that may not otherwise qualify as prior art at the time of filing are neither expressly nor impliedly admitted as prior art against the present disclosure.

Today many software applications that utilize graphics cards i.e. hardware dedicated to efficiently rendering images include graphics programs called shaders. Generally speaking shaders allow developers to directly access a graphics card and utilize its large computational power to achieve visually rich rendering with interactive performance. A typical graphics card includes a graphics processing unit GPU designed to efficiently execute parallel processing functions and more particularly to efficiently process multiple transformations of geometric shapes and colors. A graphics card also includes a memory that stores data buffers on which the GPU operates.

Many applications that include graphics functionality rely on Open Graphics Library OpenGL standard specification which provides a cross platform and cross language development environment and many shaders are described in a specialized language called OpenGL Shading Language GLSL . A software library called Web based Graphics Library WebGL allows developers of web pages to write scripts for example using JavaScript that include GLSL code. More particularly developers can use GLSL to write code for vertex shaders fragment shaders and define variables of various scope e.g. global variables variables that define an interface between shaders etc. . Vertex shaders generally operate on vertices in two or three dimensional space while fragment shaders operate on individual pixels. For example a vertex shader can specify how vertices of a triangle stored in a buffer should be transformed to render the triangle in a particular way depending on the perspective rotation etc. A fragment shader can then generate pixels of appropriate color inside the triangle.

A GLSL shader in general executes much faster than JavaScript and developers accordingly include a significant amount of program logic in GLSL programs. For example the direction of the shadow a building casts or the location of an orbiting object can be computed directly in a shader instead of JavaScript code. However once compiled a GLSL shader executes directly on a graphics card and thus the shader is difficult to test. Because the final output of the GLSL shader is color developers cannot simply add debugging or logging information to a GLSL program via GLSL instructions. Instead developers often need to render an entire scene and analyze the entire rendered image.

In one implementation a method for automatically testing a graphics program executable on a graphics card is implemented in a computing device communicatively coupled to the graphics card. The method includes receiving the graphics program at the computing device where the received graphics program includes instructions stored on a computer readable medium and automatically generating a test graphics program based on the received graphics program including generating a set of one or more additional instructions. The test graphics program is configured to execute the instructions of the received graphics program to generate an execution result compare the execution result to a test value to generate a test result and output the test result via the graphics card wherein the test result is indicative of the test result. The method also includes automatically causing the test graphics program to execute on the graphics card and automatically processing the test result to provide via the computing device a test run indication corresponding to the test result.

In another implementation a method for generating an executable test of a graphics program card is implemented in a computing device. The graphics program includes instructions executable on a graphics card. The method includes receiving at the computing device a test case description that includes a test input and an expected result corresponding to the test input automatically generating a first instruction to apply the test input to the instructions of graphics program automatically generating a second instruction to compare a result of executing the instructions of the graphics program to which the test input is applied to the expected result to generate a test result automatically generating a third instruction to cause the graphics card to output the test result and automatically modifying the graphics program to generate a test graphics program executable on the graphics card. The test graphics program is executable on the graphics card and includes the instructions of the of the graphics program the first instruction the second instruction and the second instruction.

In still another implementation a computer readable medium stores instructions for automatically testing a graphics program. When executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to receive a graphics program that includes a plurality of instructions executable on a graphics card receive a test specification that indicates an expected result of executing the received graphics program and generate a test graphics program. When executed on the graphics card the test graphics program causes the graphics card to execute the plurality of instructions compare a result of executing the plurality of instructions to the expected result to generate a test result and output the test result as color applied to one or more pixels. The instructions further cause the one or more processors to generate test result processing instructions that when executed on a processor communicatively coupled to the graphics card cause the processor to retrieve the test result from the graphics card.

A graphics program test framework the test framework allows a user to specify a graphics program that executes on a graphics card such as a vertex shader or a fragment shader to automatically generate a test graphics program that executes on the graphics card and outputs an indication of whether the specified graphics program operates correctly. The graphics program can include instructions in a programming language capable of directly controlling a graphics pipeline such as GLSL. However the user can create edit and view the graphics program using a typical user interface of a computing device. The test framework in some implementations automatically executes the test graphics program and processes the generated indication of whether the original graphics program operates correctly. In general the test framework can operate on a computing device equipped with a general purpose processor e.g. a CPU a display device and a graphics card or on a server equipped with a general purpose processor and coupled to such a computing device via a communication network. The user can utilize the test framework to develop a large suite of unit test cases for one or several graphics programs if desired and direct the test framework to execute the entire suite in a single session.

In an example scenario the user provides a test specification that includes an expected result e.g. a value the graphics program is expected to output for a certain test case. The test framework compares this expected result to the value the graphics program actually outputs the execution result . Depending on whether the execution result matches the expected result the test graphics program outputs a pass indication or a fail indication in the form of a color applied to one or several pixels. The output color can communicate the result of testing the graphics program directly to the user e.g. a green triangle rendered on a display device can indicate success and a red triangle can indicate failure or the output color be converted to an alphanumerical value.

More generally the expected result can correspond to an expected value of any specified program variable. In some implementations the test specification also indicates the amount of error to be tolerated when comparing the execution result to the expected result. Further the test specification may include a test input such as a selection of a graphics program variable along with a value to be assigned to the selected variable.

In the server implementation a client device provides a graphics program along with the corresponding test specification to the server. The test framework operating on the server generates test graphics program based on the original graphics program in accordance with the test specification and provides the test graphics program to the client device. The client device then executes the test graphics program on the graphics card.

To generate the graphics program the test framework may analyze the source code of the graphics program and automatically generate a modified version of the source as the test graphics program. In particular the test framework may generate new instructions e.g. to compare the execution result to the expected result encode the comparison result as color modify some of the original instructions to mock out variables and functions e.g. to replace references to global variables with references to temporary variables so as to assign other values to the global variables and retain some of the original instructions without modification.

The test framework in some implementations also provides logging capability to instructions in a programming language that does not include functions for recording intermediate values events etc. in a memory accessible to a general purpose processor. For example the test framework provides a function whose syntax conforms to a high level scripting language such as Javascript for specifying a variable in a GLSL shader program and the test framework automatically generates a logging instruction that causes the value of the selected variable to be output as color. The function in some implementations may define an assert for logging the actual value of a certain variable if this value is different from the specified expected value of the variable. In either case the test framework can automatically include the logging instruction in the test graphics program.

To log the selected variable the logging instruction may encode the value which may be a floating point value as a four channel pixel color. The test framework may also generate instructions fully or partially executable on a general purpose processor for retrieving the pixel color corresponding to the encoded value from the graphics card and decoding the pixel color to retrieve the value of the selected variable. The decoded value then can be output via a display device stored in the memory of a computing device that is accessible to the computing device rather than in the memory of the graphics card or otherwise provided to the user.

To simplify the process of defining test cases organizing the test cases into test suites selecting variables for logging etc. the test framework in some cases provides a declarative user interface. In particular the test framework may implement a set of one or several application programming interface API functions having syntax consistent with Javascript or another suitable programming language interpretable and or directly executable on a general purpose processor. Thus rather than modifying the source code of a shader program the user simply describes the test in a test specification program in a scripting language. The user may invoke the API to specify the graphics program to be tested select one or more variables on which the graphics program operates specify respective expected values for these variables specify respective margins of error to be tolerated etc. The term API in this application may refer to a single function or a set of functions. Thus the user may invoke one or multiple functions each receiving one or several parameters. Further in some implementations the test framework exposes a template for specifying the graphics programs the test cases etc.

Some of the techniques which the test framework implements also can be used to automatically test compatibility between a graphics card and a graphics program to be executed on the graphics card. Today many manufacturers of graphics cards provide different support for WebGL and other graphics content. Two client devices thus can render the same WebGL content differently. Moreover a client device equipped with a graphics card does not report the parameters of the graphics card e.g. manufacturer software version to a web server when requesting graphics content. As a result the web server cannot determine whether the graphics content will be properly rendered client device based on the request from the client device.

To assess the ability of a client device to render graphics content a web server of the present disclosure provides a compatibility test program to the client device which executes a series of one or more tests on the graphics card. In particular the compatibility test program may include test instructions that execute on the GPU of the graphics card as well as test processing instructions that execute on the general purpose processor of the client device. The test instructions generate test output in the form of pixel color for example and the test processing instructions retrieve the pixel color from the graphics card and process the test output. The test processing instructions may generate a notification on the client device and or the web server when one or more of the tests fail.

In one implementation the web server provides the compatibility test program along with the requested graphics content. In another implementation the web server provides the compatibility test program in response to the request for graphics content and provides the requested graphics content only if the tests pass. To avoid redundant testing the client device may provide to the web server an indication of whether the client device previously passed compatibility testing e.g. in a cookie . The web server accordingly may provide the compatibility test program to the client device in response to only the first request for graphics content or a certain type of graphics content depending on implementation.

A test framework illustrated in can operate on shaders and more generally on graphics programs that execute on GPUs. The test framework can execute on a single computing device or if desired on multiple devices in a distributed manner. In one implementation the test framework is implemented in a scripting language interpretable at runtime by a web browser or another implementation. In another implementation the test framework operates as a compiled component including instructions directly executable on a processor. The test framework in general can be implemented in any suitable manner.

In operation the test framework receives a graphics program along with a test specification that includes one or several input values or parameters and one or several expected values . The graphics program is executable on an actual or emulated graphics card and generally is not executable directly on a general purpose processor. However a user typically can create and edit the graphics program using the user interface of a computing device. The graphics program may be compilable so that the graphics program is transformed into a set of low level instructions specific to a GPU to be executed on a graphics card. The test framework automatically generates test results and in some cases log data .

Referring to an example computing device that implements a graphics program test framework may be a desktop computer a laptop computer a smartphone or any other suitable computing device. The computing device includes one or more processors such as a central processing unit CPU a persistent memory module e.g. a disk a flash memory unit a display device an input device a random access memory RAM and a network interface module . The computing device also includes a graphics card having a GPU and a memory which can communicate with the CPU via any suitable interface e.g. Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI etc. . Depending on the implementation the computing device also may include other components such as additional processors additional memory units multiple input devices e.g. a keyboard a pointing device various peripheral devices etc.

The components of the computing device generally may be provided in any suitable manner. For example the display device and the input device can be provided as parts of a touchscreen. As another example the RAM may be provided on the same chip as the CPU or on a separate chip. However for clarity the components are illustrated separately.

A shader testing framework which may be generally similar to the test framework of executes in the computing device to automatically unit test shader programs specified in the GLSL language for example using unit test specifications . The shader programs may include vertex shader programs and fragment shader programs . The shader programs may reside in a memory of the computing device e.g. in the persistent memory on a separate computing device in a cloud etc. As is known a shader program may include multiple functions and operate on various variables. In general each unit test tests the behavior of a particular shader program or for a certain vertex or fragment. Moreover in some cases developers can use the test network to test individual functions within shaders.

If desired the unit test specifications can be text files that conform to a certain predefined format. Alternatively a user can create the unit test specifications using an API compatible with JavaScript or another suitable scripting language. Each unit test specification may include inputs and expectations which may refer to uniforms textures attributes varying and global variables such as gl FragCoord gl FrontFacing gl PointCoord etc. Together a set of several unit test specifications can define a test suite. An example interface for defining the units tests is discussed in more detail below with reference to .

The framework may include or dynamically generate an encoder to encode values such as those selected via asserts intermediate results of executing a shader program the final result of testing a shader program cumulative results of testing etc. as a pixel or a set of pixels of a certain color. A decoder performs the reverse operation and converts pixel color to a numeric or alphanumeric value. The encoder may be implemented in GLSL code executable on the graphics card . For example the test framework may insert instances of the source code of the encoder which may be further modified when appropriate into the shader programs to generate modified shader programs which then render a green triangle if the test passed or a red triangle if the test failed. Suitable techniques for modifying shader programs as well as the components that may implement these techniques are discussed in more detail with reference to . Further the encoder may generate a triangle in which the color of the pixels encodes a value actually generated by the shader program being tested. In some implementations the encoder generates an indication of the actual value produced by the shader program only if the corresponding test fails.

The test network may dynamically generate a test harness in JavaScript for example to invoke the instructions of the shader program being tested as modified by the test network test the asserts being specified via the expectation descriptions cause the modified shader programs executing on the graphics card to output test results and asserts as color encoded values etc. The decoder which also may be implemented in JavaScript may then retrieve the color encoded values from the graphics card decode the retrieved values and generate a text based or otherwise user friendly representation of the color encoded values. To this end the decoder may use the readPixels WebGL function for example. The test framework may insert instances of the decoder into dynamically generated code that processes the results of executing modified shader programs.

It is noted that in some implementations a test framework similar to the test framework operates on a server that receives a shader program and a test specification from a client device via a network generates a modified shader program and provides the modified shader program to the client device for execution.

Referring still to in an example implementation the encoder encodes a binary test result or a non binary value as an array of 24 bits according to RGBA color specification. More specifically the encoder uses the bits for encoding a channel in each of the four colors as a respective six bit array thus using 4 6 24 bits to encode information. This technique allow the encoder to round errors when converting values between float and int data types. To retrieve float values form a shader a format similar to IEEE 754 may be used for example. In some cases certain indications can be encoded as binary values. For example an indication of whether a test result passed or failed can be encoded as a binary value. As another example an indication of whether a certain block of code was hit also can be encoded as a binary value. Alternatively for non binary values all 32 bits can be used.

The encoder can cause the color encoding a test result to be applied to each pixel enclosed within a triangle. For example the encoder can execute a simple vertex shader to generate the vertices of a triangle and a simple fragment shader to apply the color to all pixels inside the triangle. The decoder then can read any pixel within the triangle using the readPixels functions defined by WebGL or GLSL for example and convert the pixel color back to the value encoded by the encoder .

In some cases the modified shader code may produce multi component values e.g. if the amount of encoding available in a pixel is not sufficient . In these cases the test framework may make multiple round trips to the graphics card to retrieve all components of the value. In other words the test framework may read pixels from the corresponding buffer on the graphics card multiple times. For example to communicate the value of an entire variable of type mat4 to a developer 16 values need to be encoded by the modified shader program or the harness program and accordingly 16 extraction operations need to be made. As another example gl FragColor in a certain harness program may encode a four element expected value such as a vector . In this case the corresponding extraction code may be run four times to extract each element of gl FragColor.

The web browser application can be any suitable browser capable of initiating and processing requests for web content including graphics content. In some cases the web browser application receives shader programs that are already compiled into an instructions set supported by the graphics card . In other cases when a user develops source code for the graphics program in GLSL for example the graphics program compiler and linker compiles and links the GLSL code to generate instructions compatible with the graphics card .

The server includes a processing unit which may be generally similar to the CPU a memory and a network interface . A developer may use the browser application to provide the graphics program to the server . The server may implement several functions for generating a test specification and expose these functions e.g. as prototypes of functions that can be called in script to developers of graphics content. For example the server may store instructions that implement a variable assignment API for selecting a value within a graphics program and assigned a value to the variable a test declaration API for generating a unit test specification a graphics program specification API to specify the graphics program to be tested etc.

The developer may write a test specification program in a general purpose scripting language such as JavaScript or in a proprietary scripting format if desired. The test specification program may include calls to the APIs to select the graphics program describe a test to be performed on the graphics program specify inputs to the graphics program for executing the test etc. For example in one implementation the developer specifies the entire source code of the graphics program in the form of a string assigned to a variable of the appropriate type e.g. a character array . In operation the developer provides the test specification program and the graphics program which may be embedded in the test specification program to the server . In response the server generates a test graphics program to be executed on the graphics card .

In another configuration illustrated in the browser application executing on the client device requests content from a content server which can provide graphics content as well as non graphics content to client devices via the network . A client request processor operating in the content server is configured to automatically provide a compatibility test program to the client device in response to detecting that the client device is requesting a certain type of graphics content for the first time. An example method which the client request processor may implement is discussed in more detail with reference to and an operation of an example compatibility test program is discussed with reference to .

Next illustrates an example shader unit test framework and several relevant components in more detail. Similar to the test framework or discussed above the test framework receives source code that specifies shader programs expectation descriptions and input values . The test framework then tests the shader programs in accordance with the expectation descriptions and the input values using a graphics card which includes a GPU .

The test framework includes a shader unit test code generator configured to automatically modify shader programs being tested a GPU interface module to provide the modified shader programs to the graphics card via a shader compiler and linker a variable binding buffering module to analyze and provide the input values to the graphics card and a shader executor to cause the modified shader programs to execute on the graphics card .

The variable binding buffering module may include a numeric value analyzer and a shader variable object generator . In general the shader variable object generator may generate objects that provide interfaces for buffering and binding data e.g. between a JavaScript variable and a buffer in the graphics card . For numeric values such as vectors matrices floats and ints the numeric value analyzer may analyze the source code to determine which function should be used when buffering. To this end the numeric value analyzer may analyze at the variable type declaration analyze the qualifier while accounting for the fact that some of the varying have been rewritten as uniforms at this stage of processing the source code and determine the proper type such as float int vec2 mat3 etc. In view of this determination the binding buffering module may make appropriate calls to bind and buffer data. For example in response to detecting a variable that is a uniform mat3 the variable binding buffering module may buffer the corresponding data using uniformMatrix3f.

As illustrated in the GPU includes a module to store instructions of compiled shader programs and a memory to store various data buffers as well as a test result data buffer .

Once the execution of a shader program is complete a pixel retriever may retrieve the color encoded value in the test result data buffer via a readPixels call for example and provide the retrieved value to a decoder . In turn the decoder may generate a numeric or alphanumeric indication of the retrieved value. The decoder in some cases also may generate an accompanying text e.g. Unit test 4 of vertex shader MyVertexShader PASSED. . Moreover the decoder may automatically generate a coverage report i.e. a report that indicates which portions of the code were hit during execution. Thus if the GLSL code of a shader program includes various if then branches the decoder can provide information to identify which branches of the code were visited.

Next illustrates operation of a shader unit test code generator code generator that automatically generates a modified version of a shader program for testing the original shader program. The code generator may operate in the test network or for example. More particularly in a certain embodiment the shader unit test code generator of is implemented similar to the code generator .

The code generator may receive the source code of a shader program . The shader program may be provided in the GLSL language and include the main function declaration encompassing instructions to be executed by the shader program . For ease of illustration the shader program is depicted as operating only on global variables. However it will be understood that the shader program in general may operate on variables of any scope. It is also noted that the shader program may be a vertex shader or a fragment shader.

In addition to the source code the code generator may receive input values and expectation definitions as additional inputs. As discussed above the input values and expectation definitions may specify variables to be used by the program shader and the results expected to be produced by the program shader respectively.

Using the data and the code generator generates a modified source code . By way of example only illustrates that the modified source code includes a modified declaration of the main function. For example the modified declaration may be  TestMain . The code generator generates the body of the  TestMain function that is generally similar to the body of the original main function. More precisely the  TestMain function performs the original vertex or pixel transformation functions by executing instructions but some or all of the variables on which  TestMain operates are renamed to allow the corresponding test framework to use the variables for storing and transmitting test results.

The code generator also generates a new declaration of the main function. Generally speaking the new main function invokes the  TestMain function compares the result of executing the  TestMain function with the expected result specified via the input values and encodes the result of the comparison in an output variable. For example in case of a fragment shader the output value may be output via gl FragColor. In one implementation the code generator replaces references to gl FragColor and gl Position with replacement or mock variables such as  gl FragColor and  gl Position respectively. In this manner the variables gl FragColor and gl Position may be used to output the results of testing a fragment shader or a vertex shader respectively.

With continued reference to the code generator may automatically generate and insert into the modified source code value encoding or extraction instructions for outputting an actual value produced by a shader program in the event the test case fails. These instructions may be similar to the encoder discussed above. In an example embodiment of the code generator the extraction instructions encode a value of type float as a four channel color. Further the code generator may include an encoding function in the modified source code .

In general the code generator modifies the code for vertex shaders and fragment shaders in a similar manner. However because vertex shaders and fragment shaders operate at different stages in a graphics pipeline the code generator also may make modifications that are specific to the shader type. For example to allow developers to check and or retrieve values for gl FragCoord gl FrontFacing and gl PointCoord the code generator generates mock uniforms such as vec4 mock FragCoord for example and replaces all instances of the original variables in the code being tested with the corresponding mock variables. Further the code generator may automatically convert all varying variables declared in a fragment shader to uniforms. In this manner a value for a varying can be set without having to pass the value through a fragment shader.

Still further for the discard instruction the code generator may generate code to store a global Boolean variable bool testDiscarded. The code generator then replaces every occurrence of the discard instruction with the following snippet 

In addition to generating and inserting code to encode asserts and encode binary test results i.e. pass or fail the code generator can rewrite a shader program to generate indications of which blocks and or branches of the code have been hit. In an example implementation a block of code is defined as a section containing instructions that always execute sequentially. In GLSL a block of code effectively is every section enclosed in braces or ifdef directives. The code generator accordingly can insert instructions into each block of code with a corresponding numerical identifier of the block.

By way of a more specific example the code generator may define a global integer that stores code coverage state for a particular run. Code coverage then may be binary encoded i.e. each block of code may be assigned a bit that is set to one if the block of code is hit during a particular run or to zero if the block of code is not hit during the run. Even more specifically a modified shader may output asserts or debug values via a 32 bit buffer of which 24 bits may be used to encode information. Because a typical shader program includes less than 24 blocks a single integer is sufficient to reflect the test coverage. However if the code includes more than 24 blocks the code coverage code may be run multiple times each time for collecting information regarding different blocks of code.

To more clearly illustrate how a user may interact with a test framework or depicts an example shader program test template via which a user can specify shader source code inputs and expectation values. Generally speaking the test framework or can provide an easy to use efficient declarative user interface for developing test cases and test suites with multiple test cases. The test template may be developed in a scripting language using one or several APIs implemented by the corresponding test framework. In an embodiment a network server e.g. the server of or the server of provides the shader program test template to a developer upon request. In some situations the server may also automatically test results from one or several computing devices to generate project wide metrics for example.

The shader program test template includes an initialization section that contains code for including the necessary libraries adapters boostrapping code etc. The user can insert the source code for a vertex shader program into section and the source code for a fragment shader program into section . As one example the template accepts the GLSL source code as a set of strings provided in JavaScript.

The user can then define one or several test suite routines such as test suite routines and . In general a user can specify any desired number of test suites. In an example implementation5 each of the test suite routines and receives a description of the test suite as one parameter e.g. Fragment Shader Tests a reference to the source code as another parameter e.g. reference to the variable that stores the text strings of the GLSL code of the shader and the definition of individual test cases as another parameter.

Each of the test suite routines and includes one or several test case routines and each of which may receive a description of the test case as a parameter. Referring to the test case routine an input definition section may include one or several calls to a function that creates a variable associates the specified type assigns the specified value or values to the variable and specifies how the variable should be buffered. An expectation definition section may include one or several calls to a function that specifies a variable specifies an expected value for the variable and specifies the margin of error for the variable e.g. due to rounding off float values .

According to the method for each value being tested the source code of the shader program is modified to generate an appropriate output value. In particular a determination is made whether more expectation descriptions are available at block . If an expectation description is available the flow proceeds to block and the source code of the shader program is modified to cause the program to output a triangle with a certain color e.g. green if the test case passed and output a triangle with a different color e.g. red if the test case failed. More specifically as discussed above the source code may be modified to execute a comparison between the output of the shader code being tested and the corresponding expected value. The comparison may be executed within the modified main function.

Further in some implementations the source code is further modified to cause the modified code to output the actual value generated by the shader program being tested if the test failed block . The flow then proceeds to block to transition to the next expectation and returns to block to determine whether more expectations are available. The method completes after block and have been executed for every value being tested.

Next illustrates an example method for causing a graphics program to log the value of a selected variable that may be implemented in a test framework of the present disclosure. The method can execute on the processor of a computing device to analyze and modify a graphics program executable on a graphics card. At blocks and respectively a graphics program and a selection of a variable are received. For example as discussed above a developer can invoke one or several API functions for specifying a graphics program selecting a variable on which the graphics program operates etc. In some cases the selection of a variable at block corresponds to a call to an assert via which the developer of the graphics program confirms whether the selected variable acquired the expected value also specified at block .

In general the variable selected at block need not be the output of the specified graphics program. Rather the selected variable can be a variable used only internally by the graphics program or a variable used by several graphics programs e.g. a vertex shader and a fragment shader to pass intermediate values that are not ultimately output as color. The method thus can operate on variables which are not otherwise accessible outside the graphics card.

At block the type of the selected variable is analyzed in the source of the graphics program to determine how the selected variable should be output. In particular the method may determine how many are required to encode the selected variable. The method then proceeds to block to generate a logging instruction using the techniques discussed above for example. Once the modified graphics program including the logging instruction is executed the method analyzes the logged variable at block . For example an instruction to retrieve pixel color from a memory buffer of the graphics card can be executed to obtain a numeric value. If desired the obtained value can be further processed to generate a more detailed description of the retrieved value a text based indication of whether the assert passed or failed etc.

In one implementation the request also includes an indication of whether the client device previously passed compatibility testing. The indication can be included in a cookie for example. If it is determined at block that the client device already passed compatibility testing the flow proceeds directly to block . Otherwise if the client device is requesting graphics content or a particular type of graphics content from the server for the first time the flow proceeds to block where a compatibility test program is provided to the client device. A flow diagram of an example compatibility test program is discussed below with reference to .

Next an indication of whether the client device can properly support the required content is received at block . The client device generates the indication upon executing the compatibility test program provided at block on the graphics card of the client device. If it is determined that the client device properly supports graphics content block the requested content is provided to the client device at block . Otherwise the flow proceeds to block where an incompatibility indication is provided to the client device.

In other implementations a server can provide a compatibility test program to a client device along with the requested content. More generally a server can provide compatibility test programs to client devices in any suitable manner e.g. in response to an explicit request for compatibility testing upon updating the version of the programming language used to define the graphics content etc.

At block test instructions are provided to the graphics card for execution. For example a set of GLSL instructions that execute on the graphics card but not on the CPU are loaded into the graphics card and a command is issued to begin execution. Basic test instructions can simply render a triangle and fill the triangle with a certain color for example. In general however test instructions can be as complex as necessary to ascertain the ability of the graphics card to render graphics content. In any case the test instructions provided to the graphics card at block can affect the color of a certain preselected pixel.

Once the test instructions execute on the graphics card the color of the preselected pixel is retrieved block and converted to a numeric value block . Next at block the numeric value is compared to an expected value to determine whether the test instructions executed successfully. At block either a match indication or a mismatch indication is generated depending on whether the expected value matched the execution result. The indication can be provided to the user via the user interface of the client device and or to the server.

Further in some cases the blocks are repeated multiple times to execute a set of tests rather than a single test. For example the compatibility test program may require that a certain number of tests pass prior to determining that the client device is capable of supporting graphics content available at the server.

In view of the foregoing it is noted that the techniques of the present disclosure allow users to test shader programs directly on a graphics card without having to rely on an emulator or another specialized environment. In this manner issues related to specific graphics card can be efficiently and timely discovered and differences between graphics card can be ascertained. Moreover if it desirable to execute unit test cases on an emulator a browser such as Mozilla Firefox can be compiled with Mesa 3D graphics library for execution on an emulator. In this manner the test framework or discussed above can be utilized both on computing devices that includes a graphics card and on computing devices that do not include graphics cards.

By way of still further illustration example use of a graphics program test framework is discussed below with reference to the code segments below. Referring back to this example code can be used with the test template for example. In addition to instructions with a syntax that conforms to JavaScript the code below includes comments on lines that begin with two forward slashes .

An example GLSL vertex shader program and an example GLSL fragment shader program are assigned to respective variables as text strings 

An example test suite for a vertex shader is defined below. The code fragment below includes several example calls to functions for defining a test suite selecting variables specifying expected values for the variables etc. 

The following additional considerations apply to the foregoing discussion. Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter of the present disclosure.

Additionally certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code stored on a machine readable medium or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware and software modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware and or software modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware or software modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware or software modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules or software are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware or software modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware or software modules have access. For example one hardware or software module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware or software module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware and software modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods or routines described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as an SaaS. For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm or a routine is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms routines and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the description. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for testing graphics programs on a graphics card through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

