---

title: Local mobile memo for non-interrupting link noting
abstract: Systems, methods, routines and/or techniques for a local mobile memo for non-interrupting link noting are described. One or more embodiments may include a method that may include displaying to a user a page containing a link, receiving a first user input that indicates the link should be saved for potential later processing and saving the link to a local repository so that the link can be processed later. The saving may occur while the page continues to be displayed. The saving may occur without processing the link to perform the associated action. The method may include displaying a list (e.g., including the link) of one or more links saved in the repository, for example, in response to an event that indicates that the user may be interested in viewing links in the link repository.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09384290&OS=09384290&RS=09384290
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09384290
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121102
---
The present disclosure relates to saving links on mobile devices and more particularly to one or more systems methods routines and or techniques for a local mobile memo for non interrupting link noting.

Mobile devices such as smartphones have become more advanced. Some mobile devices incorporate a processor that runs computer code including code that implements an operating system OS . Some mobile devices are capable of running applications for example web browsers that display standard web pages as well as mobile optimized web pages. Some mobile devices include a screen for example a touchscreen that may span a substantial portion of an outside surface of the mobile device. A touchscreen may allow a user to interact with the mobile device using a pointer or a finger.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present invention as set forth in the remainder of the present application and with reference to the drawings.

The present disclosure describes one or more systems methods routines and or techniques for a local mobile memo for non interrupting link noting. One or more systems methods routines and or techniques may include an intelligent local memo with a link repository. One or more systems methods routines and or techniques may allow a user to save a link for example a link that is embedded in a page and or application that the user is currently viewing. One or more systems methods routines and or techniques may allow a user to save the link in the link repository of the local memo without interrupting what the user is doing on a current page and or application. The local memo may display an indication of saved links for example when the user exits the current page and or application.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present disclosure as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings. It is to be understood that the foregoing general descriptions are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the disclosure as claimed.

Mobile device screens have become larger over the years but the screens on various devices are still substantially smaller than many monitors for desktop computers. Because of the small screen size of various mobile devices various applications that are designed for mobile devices may be programmed to use most or all of the screen. In some situations it may not be feasible or desirable to split the screen between multiple applications at the same time. In the situations where a single application consumes the screen at any one time a user may be inconvenienced. For example the user may have to select one application at a time to focus on and the user may avoid actions that may take the user away from the current application. For example if a user is navigating a webpage e.g. a news webpage in a web browser the user may see an embedded link e.g. a URL or URI to a different news story that interests the user but the user may avoid taking an action that may activate the link because the user may know that taking such an action will cause a different window to consume the mobile device screen perhaps interrupting what the user is doing on the current screen e.g. reading the current news story . If the user chooses to avoid activating the embedded link the user may forget to return to that link once the user is finished with the current application and or screen. Effective productive and or efficient use of one or more applications and or effective productive and or efficient use of the screen real estate of mobile devices may be important.

The present disclosure describes one or more systems methods routines and or techniques for a local mobile memo for non interrupting link noting. One or more systems methods routines and or techniques may include an intelligent local memo with a link repository. One or more systems methods routines and or techniques may allow a user to save a link for example a link that is embedded in a page and or application that the user is currently viewing. One or more systems methods routines and or techniques may allow a user to save the link in the link repository of the local memo without interrupting what the user is doing on a current page and or application. The local memo may display an indication of saved links for example when the user exits the current page and or application.

Mobile device may include code related to one or more applications for example application indicated generally by part . Each application may be programmed to display one or more pages or frames on the screen of the mobile device . For example application may display a page also indicated generally by part . Referring to part may generally indicate other applications and or pages or frames that may be displayed on the mobile device . As one specific example application may be a web browser that displays a page part which may be a first web page and part may indicate a page that the web browser displays e.g. a second web page. As another specific example application may be a web browser that displays a page part and part may indicate a different application i.e. application for example a phone application. In some embodiments a page displayed by an application may take up fill or consume the entire screen of the mobile device . For example page of application may consume the entire screen of the mobile device . In this example according to various techniques a user may have to switch to a different application or a different page in order to see something other than what is displayed on page of application part . One or more systems methods routines and or techniques of the present disclosure may provide one or more solutions to address this inconvenience.

Mobile device may include code related to a local memo . Local memo may accept input from a user and may communicate with one or more applications for example application s etc. denoted generally by parts . Local memo may save one or more links for example links that are embedded in a page and or application that the user is currently viewing. Local memo may allow a user to save the one or more links without interrupting what the user is doing on a current page and or application. Local memo may remind the user of or otherwise indicate saved links for example when the user exits the current page and or application. Local memo may be implemented at various levels and or layers of the mobile phone architecture. For example local memo may be implemented at the operating system OS layer for example as a continuously running background process. The background process may listen for input from a user for example a finger swipe via a touchscreen and may communicate with one or more applications. As another example local memo may be implemented as an application e.g. at the native application layer for example as a continuously running background application. The background application may communicate with the OS to accept input from a user and may communicate with one or more other applications.

Local memo may include one or more settings and or configuration pages and or frames. A settings and or configuration page may allow a user and or administrator to configure the local memo to operate in a particular manner. A user may access and or navigate to a settings and or configuration page frame in a variety of ways. For example the user may access a settings and or configurations page in a manner similar to the way a user would access various settings related to the OS running on the mobile device. As another example the user may access a settings and or configuration page in a manner similar to the way a user would access various applications installed on the mobile device.

Local memo may include a number of pieces of code functions modules routines or the like for example link repository link list reminder and content ad targeting . Link repository may save store or note links and optionally additional information for example in response to input from a user. Link repository may allow a user to save one or more links into the link repository without interrupting what the user is doing on a current page and or application. It should be understood that term link may refer generally to any piece of information from a page or frame displayed by an application where the information may be used or processed to by an application or software program to perform a function or action. For example a link may refer to a Uniform Resource Locator URL or Uniform Resource Identifier URI or URI from a webpage where the URL or URI may be saved in the link repository and may be used by a web browsing application to navigate to the URL or URI. As another example a link may refer to a telephone number e.g. an active URL or URI or simple text where the telephone number may be saved in the link repository and may be used by a telephone application later to call the telephone number. As another example a link may refer to a street address e.g. an active URL or URI or simple text where the street address may be saved in the link repository and may be used by a maps application later to display an interactive map related to the street address. Various other examples of links will become apparent after referencing this disclosure.

In general a user of a mobile device e.g. mobile device while viewing a page generated by an application e.g. page of application indicated generally at part may perform some action e.g. a finger swipe with respect to the mobile device to cause the local memo and or the link repository to save one or more links e.g. link link etc. as shown in . The local memo and or the link repository may save these one or more links without interrupting the user e.g. without causing the screen of the mobile device to display a different page and or application. The local memo and or the link repository may communicate with one or more storage and or memory means in the mobile device to save and or recall information. For example local memo and or the link repository may communicate with volatile or non volatile memory persistent storage flash memory or the like.

Link repository may save store or note additional information along with a link for example contextual information. For example when a user indicates that the link repository should save a link the link repository may also analyze and or capture text i.e. snippets that surrounds the link as it appears in the current page and or application. The link repository may capture a few sentences and or lines of text that appear around the link for example before after above below left of and or right of the link. These snippets of text that surround the link may indicate information about the link for example the general content that the link points to or is associated with. As another example of contextual information the link repository may capture general information about the current page that the user is viewing for example information appearing elsewhere in the page and or information provided in keywords and or comments of the code used to generate the page. The link repository may capture general information from the frame or step of an application as displayed if applicable. Contextual information may be analyzed by one or more other pieces of code functions modules routines or the like in the local memo to determine information about the links that the user saved. For example a content ad targeting function may aid in formulating content requests that are related to keywords topics and the like that appear in the contextual information saved in the link repository .

As another example of additional information saved along with a link when a user indicates that the link repository should save a link the link repository may also save a reverse link which may be a link that refers back to the current webpage that the user is viewing. The reverse link may include a page URL or URI and or a shortcut to an application optionally with an indication of a particular page frame or step . The reverse link may allow a user when viewing saved links to determine the source of the link i.e. which application and or page the user was viewing when the user saved the link.

Link repository may save store or note links in response to user input for example one or more user actions with respect to the mobile device . Local memo and or link repository may utilize one or more user interface UI schemes to accept and or interpret user input. If the local memo is implemented at the operating system OS layer the local memo may communicate with one or more device drivers for example a driver that facilitates communication between the OS and the touchscreen. If the local memo is implemented as an application the local memo may communicate with the OS to accept input from a user. Local memo and or link repository may accept and interpret various user actions that may indicate among other things that a link should be saved. For example a user may swipe or gesture pointer s e.g. digital or physical or finger s across or within the screen of the mobile device for example where a swipe or gesture moves over or near a link that the user wants to save. An example of a swipe may be a right left up down or diagonal swipe for example that starts on or near the link and moves to the edge of the screen. shows one example of a swipe that may be used to store a link according to one or more embodiment of the present disclosure. As can be seen in a user may be viewing an application and or page on a mobile device where the application and or page includes a link e.g. Link . The user s finger may touch the screen of the mobile device at a first location near Link . The user s finger may then swipe across the screen ending at a second location e.g. location . The second location may be near the edge of the screen or off the edge of the screen.

It should be understood that shows just one example of a user actions and this disclosure contemplates several other user actions that may indicate among other things that a link should be saved. Another example of a swipe may include swiping multiple pointers or fingers concurrently for example a two finger pinch on or near a link. An example of a gesture may be a curve or sequence of swipes that moves around the screen surface such as an S for save. As another example of a user action a user may click on or touch a link to indicate to the local memo that the link should be saved. For example the user may click on or touch a link within a special area. As another example when a user clicks on or touches a link the user may be presented with options for example navigate to link activate link save link and or the like. As another example of a user action a user may click on or touch a link and then continue to touch the link to activate a dragging mode. The dragging mode may allow a user to drag a representation of the link into an area of the screen that may indicate that the link should be saved. As a specific example the user may touch and hold a link to activate dragging and a toolbar or bucket may appear and the user may drag the link into the toolbar or bucket to save the link. The user may then discontinue touching the screen and the toolbar or bucket may disappear. As another example of a user action a user may perform a gesture that does not include touching the mobile device and the mobile device may detected and interpreted the gesture. As a specific example a user may perform a gesture in the air with the user s hand and the mobile device may detect the gesture with an integrated camera. As another specific example a user may speak or otherwise cause a sound and the mobile device may detect the sound with an integrated microphone. Various other user actions for example that may indicate that a link should be saved will become apparent after referencing this disclosure.

Local memo may include one or more settings and or configuration pages and or frames. A settings and or configuration page may allow a user and or administrator to configure the local memo to recognize interpret and or respond to one or more particular user actions for example user actions that indicate that a link should be saved. In this respect a user may choose which actions cause a link to be saved.

Link repository may indicate or display one or more confirmation notices when a link is saved stored or noted. Local memo and or link repository may communicate with one or more user interface UI devices drivers and the like in the mobile device in order to indicate a confirmation notice. For example local memo and or link repository may communicate with the screen and or speakers included in the mobile device. As one example of a confirmation notice the local memo and or link repository may cause the screen of the mobile device to display a confirmation message for example as part of a box bubble logo or the like. shows one example of a confirmation notice according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. The confirmation notice may have been displayed in response to a link being saved e.g. Link of . In some embodiments the confirmation notice i.e. the confirmation message and or a box bubble logo or the like may display on the screen of the mobile device for a period of time and then disappear. In some embodiments the confirmation notice may fade away for example by becoming more transparent as time passes until the confirmation message has disappeared.

It should be understood that shows just one example of a confirmation notice and this disclosure contemplates several other types of confirmation notices that may indicate among other things that a link is being or was saved. In some embodiments a confirmation notice may linger or remain near a link that was saved such that it appears to a user that the confirmation notice is displayed near the link in the page that the user is viewing. For example an icon logo box bubble letter s or the like may linger or remain near the link that was saved for example to remind the user that the user saved the link. In this example the local memo and or link repository may communicate with the application that displays the page that the user is viewing. In this example the application that displays the page that the user is viewing may communicate with the local memo and or link repository for example such that the application can receive information from the local memo and or link repository that a link was saved and such that the application can displayed a confirmation notice near the link that was saved. In this regard an application may use and or implement an API application programming interface into the application to facilitate communication with the local memo and or link repository .

Referring to local memo may include a link list reminder . Link list reminder may display and or remind a user of links that were stored in the link repository . In some embodiments the link list reminder may be event driven for example being adapted to remind and or prompt a user of stored links in response to some event and or routine that occurs in the mobile device. Various events and or routines may cause and or trigger the link list reminder to display an indication regarding saved links. For example when a user indicates that the application and or page that the user is viewing should be closed and or exited the link list reminder may display an indication to the user regarding saved links. In some embodiments various time periods and or time events may cause and or trigger the link list reminder to display an indication regarding saved links. For example the link list reminder may detect that a period of time e.g. a configurable period of time has passed and may display an indication regarding saved links. As another example the link list reminder may detect that a period of time e.g. a configurable period of time has passed since one or more forms of user input have been detected and may display an indication regarding saved links. In this case a period of time without user input may indicate that the user is ready to view previously saved links. In some embodiments a comparison routine may cause and or trigger the link list reminder to display an indication regarding saved links. For example a comparison routine may compare a page that a user is viewing to information stored in the link repository regarding saved links and the link list reminder may display an indication regarding saved links for example if the content on the page the user is viewing is similar to information in the link repository. One example of an indication may include a message that displays on the screen of the mobile device that reads similar to the following It looks like you saved a link similar to what you are reading. Would you like to view it The comparison routine may perform this comparison on the same page or a different page than the page the user was on when the user saved the link. Other types of comparison routines are contemplated by this disclosure.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure the link list reminder may be user query driven for example being adapted to display an indication of stored links to a user in response to user input or a user query. Various types of user input may cause and or trigger the link list reminder to display an indication regarding saved links. For example the user may swipe or gesture pointer s e.g. digital or physical or finger s across or within the screen of the mobile device. Various other forms of user input may cause and or trigger the link list reminder to display an indication regarding saved links for example types of user input similar to those discussed above with regard to saving links in the link repository . In some embodiments the types of user input may be indicated in a settings and or configuration page of the local memo . In some embodiments the user may access an indication of saved links via a link repository management tool. The link management tool may be part of the local memo and the user may navigate to and or open the link repository management tool in various ways. For example the user may access the link repository management tool in a manner similar to the way a user would access various settings related to the OS running on the mobile device. As another example the user may access the link repository management tool in a manner similar to the way a user would access various applications installed on the mobile device. The link repository management tool may display various pieces of information related to information stored in the link repository and may allow a user to display an indication of saved links.

Link list reminder may display and or remind a user of links that were stored in the link repository for example in a manner that is event driven and or user query driven. Link list reminder may display an indication of links and optionally other information that is stored in the link repository . The indication of links and or other information stored in the link repository may be displayed in various forms. shows an illustration of one example of how a link list reminder may display an indication of links and or other information stored in a link repository according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. As one specific example the indication of may have been displayed in response to a user attempting to close or exit an application or page e.g. part .

Indication may include various components and or pieces of information. Indication may include one or more messages . The message may explain why the indication is being displayed what content the indication includes and or points to what options the user may take in relation to the indication . The example of asks the user whether the user would like to view any of the saved links. Another example message may include a query to the user regarding whether the user would like to see more information more options and or an expanded view or indication of information in the link repository. Indication may include a preview of information stored in the link repository. Preview may include a sampling of links and optionally other information stored in the link repository. Preview may be active such that the user may be able to activate one of the links in the preview without opening an expanded view. Indication may include an expansion button or option which may allow a user to expand the indication to display a more comprehensive view or indication of information stored in the link repository. An expanded view may display various pieces of information for example a portion of or all saved links that have not been revisited by the user. In some embodiments the expanded view may be adapted to be configurable for example a user may be able to select how information in the expanded view is displayed. For example a user could select to see all saved links and optionally contextual information during a time period for example during the last day week month etc. The expanded view may allow a user to sort order and or group the information in various ways for example by the time the link was saved by the content of the contextual information associated with the link and or other like schemes.

Link list reminder may cause one or more applications to perform function s with respect to one or more links e.g. in the indication or in the expanded view . For example if a user indicates that one of the links e.g. in the indication or in the expanded view should be activated and or navigated to an application may perform one or more functions with respect to the link and or the contextual information related to the link. For example a new page and or application may be launched and or displayed on the screen of the mobile device for example application page generally indicated as part as shown in . As a specific example a user may attempt to exit the current application page that the user was viewing and an indication of saved links may display. The user may then select or otherwise indicate that one of the links e.g. a URL or URI should be navigated to. In response a new web browser page may be launched and or displayed on the screen of the device and the page may display content requested and received from the URL or URI address.

Referring again to local memo may include one or more content and or ad advertisement targeting routines . Content ad targeting routine may analyze information in the link repository for example stored links and contextual information related to the links. Stored links and or contextual information may provide unique information e.g. real time information regarding the interests of the user that saved the links. Content ad targeting routine may communicate for example indirectly with one or more content servers for example similar to content servers of . Content ad targeting routine may include and or communicate with content code e.g. JavaScript code and or code from a software development kit SDK that is programmed to formulate content requests and communicate the content requests to one or more content servers. Content ad targeting routine may use information about user interests for example received by analyzing information in the link repository to formulate or aid in formulating content requests that are tailored to the specific interests of the user. For example the content request may be formulated to request content that is related to keywords phrases and the like that appear in the link repository. The content code and or content ad targeting routine may then communicate for example via a wireless module in the mobile device formulated content requests to the one or more content serves. The content code and or content ad targeting routine may receive content communicated form one or more content servers for example in response to one or more content requests. The content may be related to information stored in the link repository and may be uniquely tailored to the interests of the user.

In some embodiments the content servers may be advertising servers and may serve targeted ads that are related to specific advertising requests. In these embodiments the content ad targeting routine may analyze the link repository to formulate or aid in formulating ad requests that are related to information stored in the link repository. The content code and or content ad targeting routine may then receive one or more ads from the advertising servers where the ads are uniquely tailored to the interests of the user.

Content ad targeting routine and or content code may display targeted content e.g. targeted ads at a variety of places for example in a variety of applications windows pages etc. shows one example of how targeted content may be displayed. In the example of when the indication of saved links and or an expanded view is displayed to a user the indication or expanded view may include an area where targeted content is displayed. The content ad targeting routine may arrange and or format the content so that it associates with the links and or additional information that is displayed in the indication or expanded view. For example referring to content may be arranged and or formatted so it associates with Link Link Link etc. In this respect a user may choose to activate and or navigate to targeted content instead of or in addition to activating and or navigating to saved links.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure may be found in one or more methods for a local mobile memo for non interrupting link noting. With respect to the various methods described herein and depicted in associated figures it should be understood that in some embodiments one or more of the steps described and or depicted may be performed in a different order. Additionally in some embodiments a method may include more or less steps than are described and or depicted.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure describe one or more systems methods routines and or techniques for a local mobile memo for non interrupting link noting. In one or more embodiments a method may be executed on a data processing system computer mobile device smartphone or the like. The method may include displaying to a user a page containing a link. The link may be able to be processed by a software program to perform an associated action. The method may include receiving a first user input that indicates the link should be saved for potential later processing. The method may include saving the link to a local repository so that the link can be processed later. The saving may occur while the page continues to be displayed. The saving may occur without processing the link to perform the associated action. The method may include displaying a confirmation to the user that the link has been saved to the local repository. The method may include displaying a list e.g. including the link of one or more links saved in the repository. The displaying of the list may occur in response to an event that indicates that the user may be interested in viewing links in the link repository. The method may include saving contextual information related to the link to the local repository. The contextual information may include information that was located near the link as it displayed on the page. The method may include displaying the contextual information when the list of one or more links is displayed. The method may include receiving a second user input that selects the link from the list of one or more links and processing the link to perform the associated action.

The method may include retrieving content from a remote server that is related to one or more of the links and or one or more of the pieces of contextual information in the link repository and displaying the content on the first page. The method may include analyzing the link repository including the one or more links and the one or more pieces of contextual information. The method may include retrieving content from a remote server that is related to one or more of the links and or one or more of the pieces of contextual information in the link repository. The method may include displaying the content near the list of one or more links saved in the repository when the list is displayed.

In some embodiments the first user input includes swiping information generated by a touchscreen in the data processing system where the touchscreen generates the swiping information in response to the user swiping the user s finger or a pointer across the touchscreen. In some embodiments the link is a URL or URI and processing the link may cause a web browser to navigate to a target associated with the URL or URI. In some embodiments the event that indicates that the user may be interested in viewing links in the link repository may include the page closing. In some embodiments the event that indicates that the user may be interested in viewing links in the link repository may include a period of time having passed.

In one or more embodiments of the present disclosure a method may be executed on a data processing system computer mobile device smartphone or the like. The method may include displaying to a user a page containing one or more links and one or more pieces of contextual information related to the one or more links. Each of the one or more links may be able to be processed by a software program to perform an associated action. The method may include saving one or more of the links and one or more of the pieces of contextual information to a local repository. The saving may occur in response to user input and the saving may occur while the page continues to be displayed. The saving may occur without processing the links to perform the associated actions. The method may include analyzing one or more of the links and or one or more of the pieces of contextual information that were saved in the local repository. The method may include formulating a content request where the content request is related to one or more of the links and or one or more of the pieces of contextual information in the local repository. The method may include communicating the content request to a content server. The method may include receiving content from the content server where the content was communicated by the content server in response to the content request. The method may include displaying the content on the first page. The method may include formatting the content displayed on the first page such that parts of the content are displayed respectively near relevant links and or contextual information on the first page. In some embodiments the content request is an advertising request and the content server is an advertising server.

One or more embodiments of the present disclosure describe a data processing system that includes one or more memory units that store computer code and one or more processor units coupled to the one or more memory units. The one or more processor units may execute the computer code stored in the one or more memory units to adapt the data processing system to display to a user a page containing a link. The link may be able to be processed by a software program to perform an associated action. The data processing system may be further adapted to receive a first user input that indicates the link should be saved for potential later processing. The data processing system may be further adapted to save the link to a local repository so that the link can be processed later. The saving may occur while the page continues to be displayed and the saving may occur without processing the link to perform the associated action. The data processing system may be further adapted to display a confirmation to the user that the link has been saved to the local repository. The data processing system may be further adapted to display a list e.g. including the link of one or more links saved in the repository. The displaying may occur in response to an event that indicates that the user may be interested in viewing links in the link repository. In some embodiments the first user input includes swiping information generated by a touchscreen in the data processing system wherein the touchscreen generates the swiping information in response to the user swiping the user s finger or a pointer across the touchscreen. In some embodiments the event that indicates that the user may be interested in viewing links in the link repository may include the page closing.

In some embodiments the data processing system may be further adapted to save contextual information related to the link to the local repository. The contextual information may include information that was located near the link as it displayed on the page. The data processing system may be further adapted to display the contextual information when the list of one or more links is displayed. The data processing system may be further adapted to receive a second user input that selects the link from the list of one or more links and process the link to perform the associated action. The data processing system may be further adapted to analyze the link repository including the one or more links and the one or more pieces of contextual information. The data processing system may be further adapted to retrieve content from a remote server that is related to one or more of the links and or one or more of the pieces of contextual information in the link repository. The data processing system may be further adapted to display the content on the first page. The data processing system may be further adapted to analyze the link repository including the one or more links and the one or more pieces of contextual information. The data processing system may be further adapted to retrieve content from a remote server that is related to one or more of the links and or one or more of the pieces of contextual information in the link repository. The data processing system may be further adapted to display the content near the list of one or more links saved in the repository when the list is displayed.

The methods routines and solutions of the present disclosure including the example methods and routines illustrated in the flowcharts and block diagrams of the different depicted embodiments may be implemented as software executed by a data processing system that is programmed such that the data processing system is adapted to perform and or execute the methods routines techniques and solutions described herein. Each block or symbol in a block diagram or flowchart diagram referenced herein may represent a module segment or portion of computer usable or readable program code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing by one or more data processing systems the specified function or functions. In some alterative implementations of the present disclosure the function or functions illustrated in the blocks or symbols of a block diagram or flowchart may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example in some cases two blocks or symbols shown in succession may be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in a different order depending upon the functionality involved. Part or all of the computer code may be loaded into the memory of a data processing system before the data processing system executes the code.

Processor unit may serve to execute instructions for example a software program an application SDK code native OS code and the like that may be loaded into the data processing system for example into memory . Processor unit may be a set of one or more processors or may be a multiprocessor core depending on the particular implementation. Processor unit may be implemented using one or more heterogeneous processor systems in which a main processor is present with secondary processors on a single chip. As another illustrative example processor unit may be a symmetric multi processor system containing multiple processors of the same type.

Memory may be for example a random access memory or any other suitable volatile or nonvolatile storage device. Memory may include one or more layers of cache memory. Persistent storage may take various forms depending on the particular implementation. For example persistent storage may contain one or more components or devices. For example persistent storage may be a hard drive a solid state drive a flash memory or some combination of the above.

Instructions for an operating system may be located on persistent storage . In one specific embodiment the operating system may be some version of a number of known operating systems for mobile devices or smartphones e.g Android iOS etc. . Instructions for applications and or programs may also be located on persistent storage . These instructions may be loaded into memory for execution by processor unit . For example the methods and or processes of the different embodiments described in this disclosure may be performed by processor unit using computer implemented instructions which may be loaded into a memory such as memory . These instructions are referred to as program code computer usable program code or computer readable program code that may be read and executed by a processor in processor unit .

Display may comprise a mechanism to display information to a user for example via a LCD or LED screen or monitor or other type of display. It should be understood throughout this disclosure that the term display may be used in a flexible manner to refer to either a physical display such as a physical screen or to the image that a user sees on the screen of a physical device. Input output I O unit allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to data processing system . Input output devices can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Communications unit may provide for communications with other data processing systems or devices for example via one or more networks. Communications unit may be a network interface card. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of wired and or wireless communications links. In some embodiments the communications unit may include circuitry that communicates according to various wireless communication standards for example cellular standards WIFI standards Bluetooth standards and the like.

The different components illustrated for data processing system are not meant to provide architectural limitations to the manner in which different embodiments may be implemented. The different illustrative embodiments may be implemented in a data processing system including components in addition to or in place of those illustrated for data processing system . Other components shown in can be varied from the illustrative examples shown.

The description of the different advantageous embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and the description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. Further different advantageous embodiments may provide different advantages as compared to other advantageous embodiments. The embodiment or embodiments selected are chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the embodiments of the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

