---

title: Apparatus for secured distributed computing
abstract: An apparatus for distributed computing is disclosed. The apparatus includes a semiconductor memory, a biometric device for receiving biometric data, a connector for establishing communication between the apparatus and the host device, and a processor for performing distributed computing methods. The distributed computing method includes identifying a computing task for processing, authenticating user and device with a distributed computing network, receiving a unique security code having an end-of-session expiration, requesting that the computing task be executed over the distributed computing network, receiving a one-time task code, selecting a device to process the computing project from among a plurality of devices based upon device location and at least one associated operating state of the device, sending the identified computing task and the one-time task code to the selected device over the distributed computing network for processing and authentication, and receiving results of computing task from the selected device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08868636&OS=08868636&RS=08868636
owner: 
number: 08868636
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120604
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 079 765 filed Apr. 4 2011 incorporated herein by reference and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 402 151 filed Feb. 22 2012 incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates to distributed computing services and more particularly to accessing distributed computing services using a portable device.

The statements in this section merely provide background information related to the present disclosure and may not constitute prior art.

Known computing systems use shared servers to provide resources software and data to computers as requested by a client computer. In many applications remote off site computing resources are used to supplement on site computing resources. In a cloud computing system data and software applications may be run on a server permitting users to access the data and applications independent of user location. For example a cloud computing system may enable web based tools or applications that users can access and use through a web browser similar to a program installed locally on their own computer. Typical cloud computing providers deliver common business applications online that are accessed from another web service or software like a web browser while the software and data are stored on servers. Many cloud computing systems consist of services delivered through servers.

Distributed computing is presently utilized to process computing projects. Generally a distributed computing system includes a number of separate computers ready to perform computational tasks and provide computing capacity when necessary. Computers utilized in a distributed computing system are made available to take on defined computing tasks when the computer is not otherwise put to use. In addition to lending computing capacity as a member of the distributed computing system individual computers also require electrical power to process the requests. Current distributed computing systems and share and request computing resources independent of particular device operating states such as device power capacity or availability. In a mobile application this is particularly problematic as battery supply and capacity may be quite limited. Therefore it would be advantageous to provide distributed computing among devices based upon operating states of the particular devices.

Concentrated computing resources such as in a cloud computing system disadvantageously expose users to data and application loss in event of a malfunction or disruption in network access. Therefore it would be advantageous to combine aspects of a distributed computing system with aspects of a remote access system such as a cloud computing system to provide computing services including services based on user location.

Further communication and informational transmission over public and private networks expose users to security risks. Therefore there is a need to mitigate informational loss and public exposure of transmitted and stored data over networks.

An apparatus for distributed computing is disclosed. The apparatus includes a semiconductor memory a biometric device for receiving biometric data a connector for establishing communication between the apparatus and the host device and a processor for performing distributed computing methods. The distributed computing method includes identifying a computing task for processing authenticating user and device with a distributed computing network receiving a unique security code having an end of session expiration requesting that the computing task be executed over the distributed computing network receiving a one time task code selecting a device to process the computing project from among a plurality of devices based upon device location and at least one associated operating state of the device sending the identified computing task and the one time task code to the selected device over the distributed computing network for processing and authentication and receiving results of computing task from the selected device.

Certain embodiments of the invention include a feature of a unique communication protocol including security codes data location and application location corresponding to remote data and application storage.

This summary is provided merely to introduce certain concepts and not to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter.

Referring now to the drawings wherein the depictions are for the purpose of illustrating certain exemplary embodiments only and not for the purpose of limiting the same is a block diagram of an exemplary communication system including a server a plurality of devices a network a radio communication tower and communication satellite that have been constructed in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure. As shown in the server may be directly communicatively connected and communicatively connected via the network . The device is connected to the network via the radio communication tower . Components of the communication system are shown in as single elements. Such illustration is for ease of description and it should be recognized that the communication system may include multiple additional implementations of the components e.g. a device may be physically connected to the network during selected periods of operation. In embodiments described herein below the device is connected to the network via the communication satellite . The device may be any device configured to execute computing functions and access the distributed computing environment as described herein below such as a mobile phone desktop computer or other computing device.

The network is a series of points or nodes interconnected by communication paths and may be interconnected with other networks and contain sub networks. The most common topologies or general configurations of networks include bus star and ring topologies. Networks can also be characterized in terms of spatial distance as local area networks LANs metropolitan area networks MANs and wide area networks WANs . Various parts of the communication system may be implemented by mobile components and may not be permanently attached to the network . For example entities may interact with each other via a wireless connection using mobile components including components utilizing the radio communication towers . Embodiments of the present disclosure are usable with a number of networks such as the global internetwork of networks referred to as the Internet and its variants e.g. intranets virtual nets overlay networks and the like . Although the Internet will be used as the primary example in this disclosure the disclosure herein may be used with other systems also including a private network for example some point of sale POS systems or in store retail systems and therefore is not limited thereby.

The server may be one of more embodiments of a computer including high speed microcomputers minicomputers or mainframes. The server preferably executes database functions including storing and maintaining a database and processes requests from the workstation client and or device to extract data from or update a database as described herein below. The server may additionally provide processing functions for the workstation client and device .

The device may be any type of communications or mobile computing device including e.g. a cellular phone digital media player e.g. audio or audio video personal digital assistant PDA and a smart phone which is a combination mobile telephone and handheld computer having PDA functionality. PDA functionality can comprise one or more of personal information management database functions word processing spreadsheets voice memo recording location based services device backup and lock media playing Internet browsing etc. and is configured to synchronize publish subscribe download or otherwise communicate personal information or user data e.g. contacts e mail calendar notes to do list web browser favorites etc. from one or more applications with a computer e.g. desktop laptop server etc. . Device device is further configured to receive and operate additional applications provided to device after manufacture e.g. via wired or wireless download. A second device is shown in to illustrate satellite functionality with the radio communication tower and the communication system .

The radio communication tower may comprise any known point to multi point wireless communications protocol and platform including cellular e.g. 3G and 4G and broadband wireless systems including e.g. WiMax technologies and may communicate over a wide spectrum of radio frequencies. One skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the disclosure described herein may be readily applied to various base station and communications tower technologies and is therefore not limited thereby. In one embodiment the radio communication tower is configured to communicate with the communications satellite .

In one embodiment the communication satellite is configured to provide positioning data and time information to enable the device to resolve an approximate geographic location of the user at a known resolution level associated with position and accuracy. The communication satellite may additionally be configured to communicate with the radio communication tower or with elements within the network . In one embodiment the communication satellite is configured to send GPS information to the device . For certain embodiments of the device the communication satellite may be used to route and handle communicates among devices. As described herein below the communication satellite may contain the server and the resource management functions.

The central processing unit is preferably a general purpose microprocessor or central processing unit and has a set of control algorithms comprising resident program instructions and calibrations stored in the memory and executed to provide the desired functions. As one skilled in the art will recognize the central processing unit executes functions in accordance with any one of a number of operating systems including proprietary and open source system solutions. In one embodiment an application program interface API is preferably executed by the operating system for computer applications to make requests of the operating system or other computer applications. The description of the central processing unit is meant to be illustrative and not restrictive to the disclosure and those skilled in the art will appreciate that the disclosure may also be implemented on platforms and operating systems other than those mentioned.

The host processor module may be configured to execute various computer programs e.g. software firmware or other code such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for the device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the host processor module and the radio processor are shown and described as separate processors such an illustration is for ease of description and it should be recognized that the functions performed by the host processor module and the radio processor may be combined in one processor more than two processors and may be implemented as a dual or multi core chip with both host processor module and radio processor on a single chip. Alternatively a single processor or multiple processors may perform the functions of host processor module and radio processor such as a single unified processor that handles host and radio functions.

In various embodiments host processor module may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor or other processing device in alternative embodiments configured to provide processing or computing resources to device . For example host processor module may be responsible for executing various computer programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . Examples of application programs may include for example a telephone application voicemail application e mail application instant message TM application short message service SMS application multimedia message service MMS application and web browser application. The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between device and a user. The computer programs may be stored as firmware on a memory associated with processor may be loaded by a manufacturer during a process of manufacturing device and may be updated from time to time with new versions or software updates via wired or wireless communication.

System programs assist in the running of a computer system. System programs may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include for example an operating system a kernel device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries an application programming interface API a GUI and so forth. The device may utilize any suitable proprietary or open source operating system in accordance with the described embodiments.

The memory module is preferably coupled to the host processor module . In various embodiments the memory module may be configured to store one or more computer programs to be executed by the host processor module . The memory module may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Although the memory module is shown as being separate from the host processor module for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor module . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory module may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor module .

A user input device is preferably coupled to the host processor module . The user input device may include for example an alphanumeric numeric or QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The device also may include various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode a keypad and so forth.

The host processor module is preferably coupled to a display device . The display device may include any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the device such as a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

An I O interface is preferably coupled to the host processor module . The I O interface may include one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as the workstation client or a remote computer system such as the server . In one embodiment shown on a device in an external processing module may interface through the I O interface to provide distributed computing services as described herein below. The external processing module preferably includes a processing unit and a memory module configured to process distributed computing tasks.

Various audio video A V devices are preferably coupled to the host processor module . The A V devices support A V capability of the device including components such as a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a video codec a video player and so forth.

A power supply configured to supply and manage power to components of device is preferably coupled to the host processor module . In various exemplary embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As described herein above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the device . For example the radio processor may be configured to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may include or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP a media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. Memory may be coupled to the radio processor . Although memory is shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . Further the host processor module and the radio processor may share a single memory.

The device may include one or more transceivers coupled to the radio processor each transceiver may be configured to communicate using a different types of protocol communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. For example the transceiver may include a Wi Fi transceiver and a cellular or WAN transceiver configured to operate simultaneously. The transceiver may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although transceiver is shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The transceiver is preferably connected to an antenna for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown in the antenna may be coupled to the radio processor through transceiver . The radio communication tower is shown as an example of potential systems configured to receive and transmit signals from and to the antenna .

A SIM device may be coupled to radio processor . The SIM device may be implemented as a removable or non removable smart card configured to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM device also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

An I O interface may be coupled to the radio processor . The I O interface may include one or more I O devices to enable wired e.g. serial cable etc. and or wireless e.g. WiFi short range etc. communication between the device and one or more external computer systems.

The device includes location or position determination capabilities. Device may utilize one or more position determination techniques including for example GPS techniques Cell Global Identity CGI techniques CGI including timing advance TA techniques Enhanced Forward Link Trilateration EFLT techniques Time Difference of Arrival TDOA techniques Angle of Arrival AOA techniques Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFTL techniques Observed Time Difference of Arrival OTDOA Enhanced Observed Time Difference EOTD techniques Assisted GPS AGPS techniques hybrid techniques e.g. GPS CGI AGPS CGI GPS AFTL or AGPS AFTL for CDMA networks GPS EOTD or AGPS EOTD for GSM GPRS networks GPS OTDOA or AGPS OTDOA for UMTS networks etc. Position determination techniques may be based on signals from one or more nearby cellular towers such as radio communication tower one or more Wi Fi access points in which position is determined at least in part by collecting addresses of nearby wireless access points and comparing the addresses to a pre stored database which associates addresses to geographic position or other techniques. The device can communicate location information upon determination at various intervals upon occurrence of trigger events upon requests or the like. For example the device can retrieve location information at the request of one or more network nodes and or devices. By way of another example the server can use network elements to determine the location of the device as described herein above.

In various embodiments the device may include dedicated hardware circuits or structures or a combination of dedicated hardware and associated software to support position determination. For example the transceiver and the antenna may include GPS receiver or transceiver hardware and one or more associated antennas coupled to the radio processor to support position determination. Although the host processor module is described herein above as a single CPU multiple additional embodiments are contemplated by the disclosure including processing partitions an embodiment wherein the host processor module includes a master CPU and a sub processor module as shown in and an embodiment wherein the host processor module includes a first and a second processor module and respectively as shown in . The sub processor module and the second processor module are configured to process distributed computing tasks preferably exclusively.

Although the memory module is described herein above as an undivided component multiple additional embodiments are contemplated by the disclosure including an embodiment wherein the memory module includes a main memory module and sub memory module as shown in and an embodiment the memory module includes a first and a second memory module and respectively as shown in . The sub memory module and the second memory module are configured to process distributed computing tasks preferably exclusively.

The distributed computer workers and may be available to the distributed computing client . When not performing a task from the distributed computing client the distributed computer workers and of the devices and can be executing other software programs or the devices and can perform complex computing of tasks from other distributed computing clients. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the system is illustrative and the server may serve for multiple clients and the device may request services from multiple servers in other embodiments.

The distributed computing client can be a computing software application that distributes computing tasks and manages client data. The distributed computing client can be a custom software program or other software that accesses functionality via an interface such as an application programming interface or by other means. One ordinarily skilled in the art will appreciate the various combinations of client types that may access the functionality of the system. As one skilled in the art will readily recognize the distributed computing client may operate on multiple computing platforms in addition to mobile environments including for example desktop computing environments server application and laptop computer.

With an application programming interface API and or programming language of the distributed computing client functions can be defined representing a computing project to be executed by either a complex computing environment local to the device or remote on a worker. The local complex computing environment may be part of the distributed computing client or a device running on the device . The programming language includes mechanisms to define a job to be distributed to a complex computing environment and to communicate the job to the device on another device or alternatively on the device .

The distributed computer workers and can be a computing software application or functions of a software application that perform complex computing of tasks such as those tasks defined or created by the distributed computing client . The distributed computer workers and can be a distributed computing application module service software component or a session which includes support for complex computing of functions as defined by programming language of a distributed computing function. The distributed computer workers and can include all the functionality and software components of the distributed computing client or it can just include those software components it may need to perform complex computing of tasks it receives for execution. The distributed computer workers and may have all or a portion of the software components installed on the devices and or alternatively accessible on another system in the network . The distributed computer workers and are capable of performing complex computing of the task as if the distributed computing client was performing the complex computing in its own complex computing environment.

The distributed computing device includes an interface that enables the resource management module on the server to communicate with the distributed computing client on the device . The interface establishes the communication channel between the distributed computing client and the resource management module so that the distributed computing client is able to submit tasks to the resource management module through the communication channel. In addition the distributed computing device also receives a result from the execution of the task through the communication channel established by the interface between the distributed computing client and the resource management module . One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the interface may be provided in the distributed computing client .

The devices and include interfaces and that enable the resource management module on the server to interface with the distributed computer workers and on the devices and respectively. The interfaces and establish the communication channels between the resource management module and the distributed computer workers and so that the resource management module is able to distribute the task to the distributed computer workers and through the communication channels. In addition the resource management module may also receive the result from the execution of the tasks through the communication channels although in some embodiments the result may be directly returned to the device .

The resource monitor module monitors information associated with users of the distributed computing services such as device location and operating states of the device. Operating states of the devices can include information indicating whether the device is ON or OFF an internal power supply level available computational resources signal strength and connectivity to an external power source.

The resource monitor module monitors physical locations of the devices for use in distributing computing tasks and performing distributed computing services. The device determines the location using one or more of techniques described hereinabove and sends to the resource monitor module via the server . In one embodiment IP addresses cell tower and or identified network may be used as an additional method for determining device location. The resource monitor module preferably stores the location of the device along with an associated time stamp in the user database .

The resource monitor module additionally tracks and stores information associated with the physical location of the devices such as historical device reliability at the physical location historical successful completion of assigned computing tasks for devices used at the physical location and historical network disruption. The information may be indexed and utilized by an associated network used by the device . Cell tower information may be utilized in one embodiment as a replacement for determining a physical location. In one embodiment physical location is used to select worker devices and construct the distributed computing tree as described herein below and route user requests to appropriate devices. The RMS can keep resource ratings on particular devices track resources routes requests to the appropriate devices from users and contains rules for the data and application replication. Devices can also forward user requests to other devices containing all or some of the data of application the user is requesting.

The availability module identifies devices that are available for distributed computing projects and or data access and route user requests to some or all devices needed to satisfy a request. Devices can also forward to other devices. Operating states and physical location of devices proximity to the requesting device user participation preferences and past performance metrics are used by the availability module . In one embodiment the availability module determines a score associated with a worker or server device with respect to a requesting device to identify preferred devices for providing distributed computing services. The score is determined based upon operating states including e.g. resource availability and physical location of devices proximity to the requesting device user participation preferences and past performance metrics of potential worker devices. In one embodiment the score is used to construct a distributed computing tree by the distributed computing functions module .

Physical location of devices are used to select worker devices and assign computing tasks. Physical location is used to determine proximity to the requesting device user. Devices in closer proximity to the user are more likely to have the same network characteristics more likely to be in or move into a hot zone such as a wifi area thus increasing bandwidth and processing efficiency. In embodiments utilizing a score metric to select worker devices and construct distributed computing trees more desirable scores e.g. higher scores are assigned based on proximity to the requesting device while less desirable scores are assigned to devices operated further away.

User participation preferences may be selected by users of the distributing computing system. The user participation preferences are used by the availability module as participation enabling criteria. If any criterion is not met the user s device will be unavailable to process computing projects and or access data sent from other devices. The user participation preferences in one embodiment are selectable monitored operating states. For example one user participation preference may be based upon the battery power operating state. The user may select a predetermined battery power operating state for enabling processing of requested distributed computing processes.

For example one participation enabling criterion can be a minimum available threshold of available computational resources. If the user is utilizing computational resources so that less than the minimum available threshold remains then the device would be unavailable for distributed computing projects and or data access. Another participation enabling criterion involves available battery power. When battery power recedes below a predetermined threshold set by a user the user may select for the device to be unavailable for distributed computing projects and or data access. Another participation enabling criterion may be whether the device is connected to an external power supply. For example a user may select to only participate in the distributed computing environment when the mobile phone is connected to the external power supply. In one embodiment users may also limit participation in the distributed computing environment. For example users may set computational resource limits such that only a predetermined user selected percentage of total computational resources are used for distributed computing services.

The distributed computing functions module utilizes devices identified by the availability module as devices available for performing distributed computing tasks. The distributed computing functions module via the resource management module receives computational requests from a device via the distributed computing client for processing and distribution over the network utilizing a distributing computing tree. The distributed computing functions module assigns and manages the distributive computing process including dividing computing projects into computing tasks and sub tasks and monitoring responses from devices for compliance with predetermined fault parameters. The distributed computing functions module additionally tracks and manages device location in the distribution tree and tracks which device is performing master type computing function requests and the devices assigned worker type computing functions. The distributed computing functions module receives results of the requested task by way of the network after processing by the worker device.

The distributed computing functions module manages distributed computing process by serving as a master node. Available devices are assigned locations in the distributing computing tree. In operation the distributed computing functions module selects a particular device i.e. a worker device to process a computing project from among the available devices operating distributed computing services configured to access a distributed data set and connected to the network . The distributed computing functions module selects the device best suited to perform the computing project using criteria described herein above such as physical location of available devices and associated operating states of the devices. In one embodiment the distributed computing functions module utilizes past performance metrics to select devices. Location on a distributive computing tree may additionally be utilized by the distributed computing functions module to assign computing projects.

Another enabling criterion the distributed computing functions module may use to select a worker device may be based upon historical reliability and performance of a device to perform requested computing tasks. The resource manager determines a device resource rating based upon historical network reliability associated with the device network disruption and historical completion of assigned computing tasks. Additional criteria can include metrics associated with a time or historical average time the device is plugged in for power usage purposes in the computing environment and whether the device has an open and real time connection open with the server . In one embodiment if the rating is less than a predetermined threshold the device is not selected to process the computing task.

The data management module manages user and system data including tracking the devices that store data for users of the distributed computing services. The data management module is configured to access and modify data stored in the user database . In one embodiment the data management module interfaces with the distributed computing functions module to perform master node distributed database management. For split data sets and unanimous data structures the data management module stores and manages data location and associated device. Redundancy and backup mechanisms are contemplated by this disclosure including those managed from the server such as using the user database and database redundancy replicated over multiple devices for user data applications and application data for example.

User data and applications may be secured using one of multiple techniques. Preferably server firewalls will prevent data and applications from access by unauthorized users via system firmware in the device or other means. In one embodiment user data and applications are indexed by ESN and device specific encryption. In one embodiment each device configured to operate in the distributed computing environment includes an encryption chip configured to encrypt the data when stored in the database and decrypt it when the data is needed for the system to do its computing of the application. Encryption techniques may additionally be utilized when storing and transferring data and applications secured and stored over multiple devices.

The application management module manages application and computing functions associated therewith. Applications and associated computing functions may be stored in the application database and distributed similar to data in the system. Computing functions of the applications may be replicated over multiple devices for additional subsequent replication and backup. The application management module stores information identifying particular devices that store computing functions associated with the applications.

Functions of the server and resource management module may in one embodiment be virtualized by designating one or multiple roaming devices to perform functions of the resource management module . In this embodiment applications and data are replicated to multiple devices for redundancy backup and for computational efficiency. In this embodiment the multiple devices may act as master node for the distributed computing functions and to manage and track data and applications.

The control scheme is configured in one exemplary implementation to provide distributed computing services to participating devices such as the device or a desktop configuration. In operation a device requests that a distributed computing project be processed by another device by sending a request to the server . The computing project may include computing processing data uploading and or data downloading. The request from the device may originate from an executed application or other computing function configured for distributed computing services such as an internet browser. In one embodiment there is a time based initiation and confirmation on communications to the resource management module to authenticate device users operating in the distributed computing environment. The server identifies computing tasks for processing which are portions of a computing project . For example the computing project may request a file be downloaded and delivered to a requesting device. One task of the computing project may include downloading a first portion of the file from a first identified device. As described herein above application and user data may reside on one or more devices including the server .

The resource management module monitors physical location of participating devices and operating states . The resource management module identifies available devices to process the computing tasks . Availability may be dependent upon enabling criteria such as having a sufficient computing function or application for processing the computing task. The resource management module determines a scoring metric for each of the available devices to determine which devices are best positioned to process the available task . The scoring metric is preferably based upon physical location of the available devices and at least one operating state associated with the corresponding device. In one embodiment the scoring metric is based upon historical performance metrics associated with a device and historical performance metrics associated with physical locations. Availability and storage of user data and application information is additionally factored into the scoring metric.

The resource management module selects from among a plurality of available devices associated with a highest scoring metric . Alternatively the devices may be selected as described herein above using device location and at least one associated operating state of the device. The resource management module sends the computing task to the selected devices and monitors responses from the selected device for compliance with predetermined fault parameters . In an embodiment wherein devices may be configured to sub divide tasks to devices proximately located using e.g. peer to peer communication capabilities devices assigned tasks may further distribute and divide computing tasks. After processing the task the server receives results of computing task from the selected device and the resource management module incorporates the results into the computing project .

In one exemplary application a requesting device uploads a web site or computer program via the distributed computing services. The server receives the web site or computer program and distributes computing functions and data associated with the web site or computer program to participating devices. Application locations are managed by the application management module and associated data is stored in the application database . In one embodiment the server provides a web site configured to receive user content data and applications for replication and distribution throughout the distributed computing environment. In operation users may access the web site requesting resources provided by participants of the distributed computing environment. In one embodiment applications and associated computing functions upload to the distributed computing environment are accessible only by participating users of the distributed computing environment.

A web site including user defined content such as web pages and associated data could reside on multiple devices computing devices and or communications satellite . In operation users requesting web page access would receive content delivered via the devices to the requesting device. When users request web pages the server via the resource management module requests the associated content from a device storing the data. The device storing the data returns the data to the requesting device via the network . The request is routed to the appropriate device s through the resource management server or other devices in the distributed computing network. Further the server can direct requesting devices to the worker devices for direct communication and computing processing. For example if a user with their device which is a part of the distributed computing environment were at a gas station configured to participate in the distributed computing environment the server could directly point the user to the participating device at the gas station to perform computing functions such as pay for fuel track fueling statistics account administration etc.

As described herein above applications can be installed on the devices and associated data stored. As shown on a first device in data stored in a database on the device can be unanimous. The second device includes distributed data stored in the second database . The distributed data as described herein above is distributed among many devices in the distributed computing environment. A third device includes a third exemplary database for split data sets. The fourth device includes a fourth exemplary database including quarantined data for prohibiting unauthorized access. A fifth device includes a second CPU module and a second memory module for performing distributed computing services.

In operation the devices respond to user requests for applications web sites pages and or data. User requests for an application can be routed to the correct devices by the resource management server and or the devices themselves. For example the third device is configured to send computing and data requests to neighboring device such as the fourth device shown in . The fourth device may process the request send the request to a second device or route the request to the server . Multiple routing from the resource management module or device to device routing could be used if a device is not available or the device where the original user request was routed only contains a portion of the application or data needed to fulfill the user request. In one embodiment of the distributed computing environment delay tolerant network functionalities are utilized to transmit and receive requested data. The delay tolerant network transmits packetized data over multiple hops or network nodes. In the delay tolerant network a complete end to end path of a transmission does not have to be active at a given moment for transmission to occur. Rather than relying on the ability to rapidly transmit packets back and forth across a data path a delay tolerant network opportunistically moves an entire semantic chunk of data e.g. a file one hop at a time as nodes become available in a store and forward manner. For example data may travel in a chain or path that the user request follows going from device to device accessing the portions of the application or data that is needed to fulfill the user s request from an application.

In another networking embodiment for increased speed and high availability request s and for application and data access the resource management module could also utilize multicast networking. Multicast networking is the use of multiple paths and multiple options to fulfill a user request with multiple devices. If one path should fail or experience latency there would be another path to another device that could fulfill the user request of an application or data. If the user is requesting access or a download of data the same path would exist as described. The data would be transferred directly or from one device to another along a path being stored on the receiving device until the next device has fully received all the data. By holding on to the data this ensures that the data request reaches the destination as it goes from a first device to a second device such as the device. In a preferred embodiment the transmission of information from device to device is encrypted and requires an authentication key that would change with each interaction between devices. This could be managed internally on the devices or through the resource management module . Preferably data is authenticated for each hop between devices ensuring data integrity during the transmission between devices.

Data stored on each device is preferably encrypted when stored on the device to prevent unauthorized access. In one embodiment data and application information transferred to a first device for subsequent transfer to second device may be stored on the first device and managed by the resource management module i.e. a replication of the application and data. The stored data and application information may then be accessible to other devices and users as appropriate. The physical location of the device and data or application on the device for routing and access purposes is managed by the resource management module or internally on the device.

In one embodiment each interaction between devices and or the resource management module requires an authentication key that preferably changes with each interaction. Each device in the mobile computing environment also has its own encryption key specific to each device. The system could also do a one time authentication when the device first accesses the distributed computing environment. The device may be configured to require a password that a user may enter on the device when accessing user specific data and application information. Another security measure could be that the applications and data can only be accessed when logged into a predetermined network such a wireless carrier s network. Devices may be configured to require additional user authentication such as a fingerprint voice recognition or retinal authentication.

In one exemplary embodiment initiation of a users request or linking from device to device could employ QR codes or other known identification method. In one exemplary application a QR code at a gas station may be utilized to identify a gas pump and associated financial institution. A device equipped with camera capabilities may be utilized to visual capture the QR code on the gas pump. The user s device contains the user s financial information. The distributed computing environment routes a payment request through nodes which may include obtaining authorization from a bank and the merchants bank then to a financial institution associated with the gas station to deposit funds for payment on the gas. Data may additionally be routed back to the device and gas station to complete the transaction and or authenticate the charges.

In one embodiment a user may access the distributed mobile computing environment using a terminal device. The terminal device may utilize a projector configured to display user input information to enable a user to input selected information to the server . In this embodiment a user may type on a screen or touch the screen to activate and manipulate objects and information such as moving a file from one folder to another. The terminal device may be utilized in one embodiment by passcode delivered via user input or via a hardware application such as a flash drive or a unique device configured to plug into a configured terminal device. For example a key chain configured with the unique device may be configured to plug in to this terminal device with only keyboard and screen . Security features may be added such as fingerprint authentication. Once enable a unique authentication code is generated for that session only which can never be duplicated or used again . This authentication codes permits access to the distributed computing environment and associated features as described herein above.

A first device is an external computing module configured to communicate with a mobile device for example via a USB connection. One skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the first device may be connected to any one of a number of computing devices including mobile and stationary computing devices. In one embodiment the device includes the distributed computing client a memory module and a processor. In one embodiment the device includes a user authentication device . The user authentication device may be a fingerprint scanner an iris scanner or any biosecurity authentication device. The device may include a tangible computer readable medium configured to store instructions related to or requested by the distributed computing client executable by a digital processing apparatus. The mobile device is selectively communicatively connected to the resource management module as described herein above.

When a user of the mobile device executes a function that requires data retrieval the mobile device communicates with the device the resource management module and a plurality of computing device such as the exemplary devices . Once the mobile device determines that remote data is required or desired by a user the mobile device requests authentication of the user by the resource management module . Authentication of the user is made by the resource management module using information obtained by the device such as username password fingerprint or thumbprint voice recognition and or retina scan. Information transmitted to the resource management module is preferably encrypted.

Upon authentication the resource management module returns a one time user session OTUS access code to the device via the mobile device . Upon receiving the OTUS the user is able to request and retrieve data over the distributed network. The data request is validated using the OTUS. The resource management module returns a one time code OTC for accessing data stored over the network on any number of computing devices and returns a location code corresponding to a device address for locating the device on the distributed network. In one embodiment the resource management module communicates the OTC to devices that have data associated with the user s data retrieval request prior to sending to the mobile device . In one embodiment the OTC can be assigned on a rolling or hopping basis wherein the computing devices are assigned an OTC associated with a particular device prior to the mobile device requesting the OTC from the resource management module . Upon receiving the OTC from the mobile device the devices authenticate the request by comparing the OTC from the mobile device to the OTC from the resource management module . If authenticated the devices execute the request and send the data. Data may be sent through the resource management module . After using the OTC to retrieve a batch of data the OTC code is no longer useable. After ending a session by logging off or upon expiration of a predetermined time period the OTUS expires requiring a user to re login and authenticate with the resource management module to issue a new OTUS.

In one exemplary situation a user is operating a remote executed application over the distributed network. The application may require access to remote stored data stored over the distributed network. As described herein above the user acquires an OTUS and sends a request to the resource management module . The resource management module returns an OTC to the mobile device and sends the OTC to the devices having stored data associated with the user s request. Upon appropriate handshaking of the OTC codes data is retrieved by the devices and transmitted to the mobile device preferably encrypted. The process is similarly executed for user requests and routines desiring data manipulation such as new data storage. New data locations are stored on the device along with the resource management module as described herein above.

If a user requests that data be erased an OTC is returned by the resource management module with locations to erase data among device s the resource management module may delete data and data locational information and device s can delete it directly. The request is transmitted through the resource management module or transmitted directly to device to save or erase data. Upon successful execution of the request the device s notify the resource management module regarding status of the request e.g. success or failure. In one embodiment after a user logs off data associated with a user is synchronized over the network for redundancy and backup purposes. The resource management module preferably calculates devices and locations where backup data can reside and saves it there preferably on one or more devices satellites. The resource management module is additionally configured to delete copies or backups of the data saved in the server .

Communications between devices within the distributed network preferably include a communication protocol having transmission code correspond to the OTUS the OTC a device location data location on the device and any required application access security keys. In one embodiment a unique user ID and or device ID such as a MAC address is included in the communication protocol. In one exemplary embodiment the first 16 bits of a transmission correspond to the OTUS the next 16 bits correspond to the OTC the next 16 bits correspond to the device location and the following 16 bits correspond to data location on the device. Null strings may be sent to indicate beginning and ending transmissions and to indicate application access security keys.

Referring now to there is shown a block diagram of functional components of the external processing module coupled to an exemplary host device . The external processing module in general includes an integrated circuit memory and a biometric scanner system . The integrated circuit may be implemented as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC but may be implemented as other types of integrated circuits. Some portion of the functions performed by ASIC may also be implemented in software. The memory may be any of a variety of semiconductor non volatile memories such as for example a flash memory system.

The biometric scanner system includes an authentication coprocessor and a biometric scanner . The coprocessor and scanner cooperate to accept and authenticate biometric data as explained in greater detail hereinafter. In embodiments of the invention the biometric scanner system is of the type to accept fingerprints and or thumbprints. However it is understood that biometric scanner system may be of the type to accept other unique personal identifier data including but not limited to a retina scanner and a voice print identification device.

In embodiments of the invention scanner may be a silicon based capacitive fingerprint thumbprint sensor. In general scanner is comprised of a two dimensional array of capacitive sensing cells each containing an active capacitive feedback circuit whose effective feedback capacitance is modulated by the presence of live skin close to the surface of the sensor. When live skin is brought in close proximity to a sensor cell the skin interferes with electric field lines within the cell and reduces the effective capacitance. When the skin is on the sensor surface fingerprint ridge the feedback capacitance is minimized while when the skin is far from the sensor surface fingerprint valley the feedback capacitance is maximized.

This difference in capacitance presence or absence of skin can be measured for each cell in the two dimensional array to capture the entire print image. The output of the sensor array may be passed through an analog signal conditioning block providing the capability to adjust sensor gain and offset before the signal is converted through an on chip A D converter into an 8 bit digital signal for encryption and storage as explained hereinafter. It is understood that the above method of obtaining biometric data is by way of example only and those of skill in the art would appreciate other devices and methods may be used for obtaining a digital signal of biometric data.

In embodiments of the device all storage of scanned biometric data and comparison against input biometric data are performed within the biometric scanner system . In particular authentication coprocessor may have associated ROM having software for executing initialization of biometric scanner system and comparison of biometric data within the biometric scanner. The authentication coprocessor may also have non volatile memory for storing encrypted reference pattern s of biometric data as explained hereinafter. Non volatile memory may be a flash memory similar to flash memory described above. In alternative embodiments the non volatile memory may be omitted and the encrypted biometric data reference pattern s may be stored in a reserved area within flash memory . The coprocessor may further include RAM for temporarily storing the biometric data reference pattern s and scanned biometric data during a comparison for verification of a user. In one embodiment the storage of scanned biometric data is performed in the distributed computing environment.

Once device is coupled to a host initialization or pass through firmware on ROM initializes the coprocessor and the coprocessor communicates with host preferably via universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART and universal serial bus USB device interface on ASIC . UART is a known interface component that handles asynchronous serial communication between the biometric scanner system and ASIC . Embodiments of the present invention use a USB connection to the host device. The host may include a USB host controller and a USB port for receiving a USB connector of the device as explained hereinafter.

The disclosure is not limited to USB connections and other connections are contemplated by the disclosure herein. Moreover it is understood that ASIC may include additional known components in alternative embodiments of the device. Further still while the storage and comparison of entered and stored biometric data has been described above as being performed by coprocessor it is understood that these operations may be carried out by processor on ASIC or within host device in alternative embodiments. In embodiments power for the device is received from the host via the USB connection. However the device may include an independent onboard power supply in alternative embodiments.

An embodiment of the operation of the biometric scanner device to allow only authorized access to memory will now be described with reference to the flowchart of . The firmware in ROM checks to see whether the device has been connected to the USB port of the host device. Upon being coupled to a host platform portable device undergoes an initialization procedure step . In embodiments the initialization procedure involves establishing communication with the host platform via the USB device interface and ensuring the host platform is aware that device has been coupled thereto.

The authentication coprocessor next determines whether a user registration is necessary. This may occur where device is being used for the first time and no reference pattern s of biometric data are stored in non volatile memory . In the event it is determined in step that no reference patterns are stored pass through communications between the authentication processor and host are carried out to perform the enrollment process. The host preferably displays instructions to guide the user through the registration process and the user is prompted to place a finger or other applicable biometric indicia on the scanner . This obtained biometric data is to be stored as the reference pattern for use in future comparisons with scanned user biometric data when access to the memory is sought. The reference pattern is then encrypted for additional security. Known cryptographic or hashing algorithms may used to encrypt the reference pattern. The encrypted reference pattern is then stored in non volatile memory .

Once the registration process is completed the graphical user interface may then indicate the successful completion. In the event the authentication coprocessor indicates that there are one or more stored reference patterns the software scans a user s biometric data to ensure that the user is authorized for access to the information on the memory .

The user is prompted in step to place his or her finger or other biometric indicia on the scanner and the scanned image is digitized and loaded into RAM . If an unsatisfactory image is obtained the user may be prompted to try again. Preferably the number of retries is user configurable. Assuming a satisfactory image is obtained the stored reference patterns s are then read from non volatile memory and loaded into RAM decrypted and compared against the scanned data. If an appropriate match is found the host display indicates a successful scan and access to the data within the memory is granted and a one time user session OTUS code is received step .

In embodiments when user authentication fails access to the memory is blocked and the appropriate message is can be displayed by the host device . Blocking of the memory can be done by various methods including shutting down or disabling the ASIC controller or the flash interface associated with the memory or configuring the controller to refuse read and write commands. It can also be accomplished by the host device . In embodiments the user may be given the option of repeating step . Preferably the number of retries is user configurable.

In one embodiment in the event of a failed authentication the user may be provided with an option to bypass the fingerprint authentication and provide a password to gain access. If the bypass password is correctly entered user authentication is deemed to be successful and access to the data within memory is granted and a one time user access code may be received. If the bypass password is not properly entered user verification remains a failure and access is denied. The amount of password entry retries may be user configurable. It should also be appreciated that if added security is desired a password requirement can be implemented in addition to the fingerprint authentication even for normal routine authentication within the scope of the present invention.

After proper authentication and receipt of the one time user access code the user may access the memory and the distributed computing system. During operation the user may request access to distributed computing resources step by e.g. requesting execution of a process storage of data in the distributed computing environment and or request transmission access of data stored in the distributed computing environment. The user transmits the OTUS and sends a request to the resource management module . The resource management module returns a one time task code OTC to the device step . The device then requests that the host device send the OTC to distributed computing devices having stored data associated with the user s request or available computing resources to process the user s request step . The devices authenticate the device using the OTC data including the request is retrieved by the distributed computing devices and transmitted to the device via the host device preferably encrypted step . The process is similarly executed for user requests and routines desiring data manipulation such as new data storage.

The disclosure has described certain preferred embodiments and modifications thereto. Further modifications and alterations may occur to others upon reading and understanding the specification. Therefore it is intended that the disclosure not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this disclosure but that the disclosure will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

