---

title: Process of making tri-arc filaments
abstract: A spinneret having tri-arc holes may be used to produce tri-arc filaments. In some instances, tri-arc holes have a Y-shape with three prongs and each prong having an arc at the end of the prong that tapers from the end of the arc to a connection point of an adjacent arc, and tri-arc filaments have a generally-Y shape cross-section with bulbous or arcing tips. Further, tri-arc filaments may be useful in a plurality of applications including, but not limited to, filters, filters comprising particulate additives, and smoking device filters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08790556&OS=08790556&RS=08790556
owner: Celanese Acetate LLC
number: 08790556
owner_city: Irving
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120725
---
The present invention relates to a spinneret having tri arc holes and tri arc filaments produced therefrom including the methods thereof and articles made therefrom.

In relation to smoking devices increasing the filtration efficacy may be achieved in at least two ways. First by increasing the surface area of cellulose acetate filaments within the smoking device filters. For example many smoking device filters now utilize cellulose acetate filaments having a Y shaped cross section rather than a substantially circular cross section e.g. a crenulated cross section to enhance the surface area. Additionally smaller diameter i.e. lower denier per filament dpf cellulose acetate filaments have been used as a way to increase surface area. However as the cross sectional shape and diameter of the cellulose acetate filaments are changed the firmness and stiffness of the smoking device filters produced therefrom may change which provides for a different feel to the consumer. Generally any change to the feel taste or draw strength of smoking devices are not readily accepted by consumers.

A second avenue being pursued to increase the filtration efficacy in smoking devices is by adding increasing amounts of additives that absorb or react with components of smoke. For example carbon or activated carbon has been used in smoking device filters to reduce vapor phase constituents of the smoke. Commonly the carbon in granular form is sprinkled onto plasticized cellulose acetate tow as the tow is being gathered into the formation of a continuous filter rod. Therefore the granulated carbon is being held in place only by the plasticizer on the cellulose acetate filaments. However at moderate to higher concentrations particulates may not be fully immobilized which may lead to particulates escaping the filter area and being inhaled by the consumer.

Therefore cellulose acetate filaments that increase surface area and enhance additive immobilization may be of use to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The present invention relates to a spinneret having tri arc holes and tri arc filaments produced therefrom including the methods thereof and articles made therefrom.

One embodiment of the present invention provides for a spinneret comprising a plurality of tri arc holes having a Y shape with three prongs and each prong having an arc at the end of the prong that tapers from the end of the arc to a connection point of an adjacent arc.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides for a spinneret comprising a plurality of multi arc holes having a Y shape with at least two prongs and each prong having an arc at the end of the prong that tapers from the end of the arc to a connection point of an adjacent arc.

Yet another embodiment of the present invention provides for a system comprising a dope reservoir and a spinneret in fluid communication with the dope reservoir the spinneret having a plurality of tri arc holes.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides for a filament comprising a polymer and having a tri arc cross section having a generally Y shape cross section having bulbous or arcing tips.

One embodiment of the present invention provides for a filament comprising a polymer and having a multi arc cross section having a cross sectional shape with at least two prongs having bulbous or arcing tips.

Yet another embodiment of the present invention provides for a method comprising providing a dope comprising a polymer and a solvent and spinning a plurality of tri arc filaments from the dope through a spinneret having a plurality of tri arc holes the tri arc filaments having a generally Y shape cross section having bulbous or arcing tips.

One embodiment of the present invention provides for a method comprising providing a dope comprising a polymer and a solvent and spinning a plurality of multi arc filaments from the dope through a spinneret having a plurality of multi arc holes the multi arc filaments having a cross sectional shape with at least two prongs having bulbous or arcing tips.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides for a filter comprising a plurality of tri arc filaments having a generally Y shape cross section having bulbous or arcing tips.

Yet another embodiment of the present invention provides for a method comprising providing a bale of crimped tow band that comprises tri arc filaments having a generally Y shape cross section having bulbous or arcing tips and placing the crimped tow band in an apparatus so as to form a filter rod.

One embodiment of the present invention provides for a smoking device comprising a smokeable substance and a filter in fluid communication with the smokeable substance the filter comprising a plurality of tri arc filaments having a generally Y shape cross section having bulbous or arcing tips.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides for a smoking device comprising a filter comprising a plurality of tri arc filaments having a generally Y shape cross section having bulbous or arcing tips and a housing capable of maintaining a smokeable substance in fluid communication with the filter.

One embodiment of the present invention provides for a pack of filters comprising a pack comprising at least one filter having a plurality of tri arc filaments having a generally Y shape cross section having bulbous or arcing tips.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides for a pack of smoking devices comprising a pack comprising at least one smoking device that comprises a filter comprising a plurality of tri arc filaments having a generally Y shape cross section having bulbous or arcing tips.

Yet another embodiment of the present invention provides for a carton of smoking device packs comprising a carton comprising at least one pack the pack comprising at least one smoking device that comprises a filter that comprises a filter comprising a plurality of tri arc filaments having a generally Y shape cross section having bulbous or arcing tips.

One embodiment of the present invention provides for a method of smoking a smoking device the method comprising heating or lighting a smoking device to form smoke wherein the smoking device comprises at least one filter section comprising a plurality of tri arc filaments having a generally Y shape cross section having bulbous or arcing tips and drawing the smoke through the smoking device.

The features and advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the description of the preferred embodiments that follows.

The present invention relates to a spinneret having tri arc holes and tri arc filaments produced therefrom including the methods relating thereto and articles made therefrom.

As used herein the term tri arc hole refers to a Y shape with three prongs and each prong having an arc at the end of the prong that tapers from the end of the arc to a connection point of an adjacent arc. provide illustrations of nonlimiting examples of different tri arc hole configurations.

As used herein the term tri arc filament refers to a generally Y shape cross section i.e. a three tip filament having bulbous or arcing tips. provide illustrations of nonlimiting examples of tri arc filaments having bulbous tips. provide illustration of nonlimiting examples of tri arc filaments having arcing tips. It should be noted that while the illustrations provide substantially similar tips it is within the scope of this invention that the tips at each end be of different sizes and or shapes.

The present invention provides tri arc filaments that may advantageously have higher surface area than their Y shaped filament counterparts. Further the bulbous tips of the tri arc filaments may provide a type of hook or grip that enhances immobilization of particulate and particulate like additives in articles made therefrom.

It should also be noted that the filaments and processes described herein relate to dope spinning wet or dry spinning which is distinct from spinning filaments from a polymer melt. For example when forming filaments from a dope as the filaments are being spun and drawn down the solvent evaporates leaving behind the filament composition e.g. polymer and additives . When the solvent evaporates the size and shape of the filament changes from the shape of the die from which they are spun. In dope spinning processes the parameters of solvent evaporation inter alia translate to the size shape and mechanical properties of the resultant filaments. In polymer melt processes e.g. via spunbond or meltblown processes the polymer is melted extruded and cooled so as to form the filament. These processes generally provide for filaments to be produced having the same or substantially the same shape and size as the die from which they are spun. Therefore the knowledge of polymer melt spinning processes does not necessarily translate to the processes for dope spinning.

Within the scope of the present invention includes potential modifications to the spinneret and resultant filaments produced therefrom. provide various spinneret hole design modifications and provide various filament cross sections that may be produced from said hold designs. By way of nonlimiting example provides a straight hole with arcs at the two ends which may produce bi lobal filaments illustrated in . By way of nonlimiting example provides a four prong hole with arcs at each end which may produce tetra lobal filaments illustrated in B. For simplicity as used herein the terms tri arc holes and tri arc filaments will be used in describing embodiments of the present invention. However in some embodiments other hole cross sections e.g. bi arc and tetra arc may be interchanged with tri arc holes and accordingly other filament cross sections e.g. bi arc and tetra arc may be interchanged with tri arc filaments. As used herein the term multi arc in reference to either holes or filaments refers to holes or filaments with at least two arcs thereby encompassing at least bi arc tri arc tetra arc and so on.

It should be noted that when about is provided below in reference to a number in a numerical list the term about modifies each number of the numerical list. It should be noted that in some numerical listings of ranges some lower limits listed may be greater than some upper limits listed. One skilled in the art will recognize that the selected subset will require the selection of an upper limit in excess of the selected lower limit.

Generally the production of filaments may involve spinning filaments from a dope. Further the filaments may then be further processed into tow bands for transportation storage and or further use. Generally the production of a bale of tow bands may involve spinning filaments from a dope forming a tow band from the filaments crimping the tow band and baling the crimped tow band. Within said production of bales optional steps may include but are not limited to warming the filaments after spinning applying a finish or additive to the filaments and or tow band prior to crimping and conditioning the crimped tow band. It should be noted that bales may vary in size and shape as needed for further processing.

It should also be noted that spinning filaments from a dope is distinct from spinning filaments from a polymer melt. For example when forming filaments from a dope as the filaments are being spun and drawn down the solvent evaporates leaving behind the filament composition e.g. polymer and additives . When the solvent evaporates the size and shape of the filament changes from the shape of the die from which they are spun. In dope spinning processes the parameters of solvent evaporation inter alia translate to the size shape and mechanical properties of the resultant filaments. In polymer melt processes e.g. via spunbond or meltblown processes the polymer is melted extruded and cooled so as to form the filament. These processes generally provide for filaments to be produced having the same or substantially the same shape and size as the die from which they are spun. Therefore the knowledge of polymer melt spinning processes do not necessarily translate to the processes for dope spinning.

In some embodiments a spinneret of the present invention may comprise a plurality of tri arc holes. As used herein the terms holes when used in conjunction with a spinneret design generally refers to openings through which the dope is extruded.

The tri arc holes may be characterized by a plurality of dimensions including but not limited to the radius R the arc distance C the inter arc distance L the inter arc angle or any combination thereof. As shown in a shape of tri arc hole can be characterized by a four circle approximation where the tri arc hole is superimposed with four circles . One circle provides the circular equivalent of the tri arc hole and the remaining three circles overlap the circular equivalent of the tri arc hole so as to form the three prongs and approximate the tapering therebetween. The points where the circular equivalent of the tri arc hole and the three additional circles cross are referred to as crossing points as shown in . From this four circle approximation at least some of the dimensions of the tri arc hole may be measured as shown in . It should be noted that the four circle approximation may be adjusted to oblong shapes as needed to accommodate the tri arc hole cross section.

As used herein the radius R of the tri arc holes is the distance from the center of the hole to the edge of the arc. In some embodiments R may range from a lower limit of about 25 microns 50 microns 100 microns or 250 microns to an upper limit of about 500 microns 400 microns 300 microns or 250 microns wherein R may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

In some embodiments the ratio of the inter arc distance to the radius L R may range from a lower limit of about 0.5 0.6 or 0.7 to an upper limit of about 1.5 1.2 or 1 wherein L R may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

In some embodiments the arc distance C may be greater than or equal to the inter arc distance L . In some embodiments the inter arc distance L may be greater than or equal to the arc distance C . In some embodiments the ratio of the arc distance to the inter arc distance C L may range from a lower limit of about 0.2 0.5 or 1 to an upper limit of about 3 2 or 1 wherein C L may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

In some embodiments the inter arc angle a may range from a lower limit of about 45 60 75 or 90 to an upper limit of about 180 165 or 150 wherein the inter arc angle may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

It should be noted that one skilled in the art should be able to modify the dimensions from above to achieve the desired shapes of the bi arc holes tetra arc holes and the like. By way of nonlimiting example C L for a bi arc hole may range from about 0.2 to about 2.

In some embodiments a spinneret of the present invention may comprise at least two different cross sectional shaped holes with at least one being a tri arc hole. In some embodiments a spinneret of the present invention may comprise at least two different size holes whether the holes be tri arc or a mixture of tri arc and another cross sectional shape. Examples of other cross sectional shapes for spinneret holes may include but are not limited to circular substantially circular ovular substantially ovular crescent multi lobal polygonal e.g. like tripods tetrapods stars triangles squares trapezoids pentagons hexagons and so on with sides of even lengths or varying lengths polygonal with rounded corners and any hybrid thereof.

In some embodiments holes may be tapered e.g. countersinks with capillary exits. By way of nonlimiting example a tri arc hole may comprise a countersink and a capillary exit where the capillary exit as the tri arc hole shape as described herein and countersink may or may not have a similar tri arc hole shape e.g. a tapering that begins from circular and meets the capillary in the tri arch hole shape . Tapering may be at a constant angle or at more than one angle. In some embodiments tri arc holes may be tapered for a constant accelerated entry i.e. a smooth transition from one angle to another. In some embodiments holes within a single spinneret may have different tapering angles.

The spinneret design and or spinning parameters may affect the rate at which the solvent evaporates from the filament which may affect inter alia the size cross sectional shape strength and processability of the filaments produced. One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand the influence of the spinneret design and or parameters on the filaments produced therefrom. By way of nonlimiting example for the production of filaments with a higher denier per filament dpf described further herein it may be advantageous to have a spinneret with holes spaced further apart as compared to lower dpf filaments. Further for the production of higher dpf filaments it may be advantageous to design the spinneret with hole placement in a donut configuration which may assist with proper drying of the filaments during spending. As used herein donut configuration refers to any shape circular ovular polygonal and the like having a void in the middle wherein the void does not have holes for extrusion.

In some embodiments a spinneret of the present invention may have a cup diameter of about 16 cm or less. As used herein the term cup refers to the reservoir which holds or is integral to the plate of the spinneret comprising the holes which may be concave convex or flat. In some embodiments a spinneret of the present invention may have a cup diameter ranging from a lower limit of about 1 cm 3 cm or about 5 cm to an upper limit of about 16 cm 13 cm 10 cm or 8 cm wherein the cup diameter may range from any upper limit to any lower limit and encompass any subset therebetween. Nonlimiting examples of suitable cups may be constructed of metal alloys may be plated ceramics glass polymers composites and the like any hybrid thereof or any combination thereof. One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand that the thickness of the plate of the spinneret may depend on inter alia the size of the cup and the material that the top and or plate are constructed from.

In some embodiments the distance between tri arc holes of the plate may range from a lower limit of about 1 mm or 2 mm to an upper limit of about 5 mm or 3 mm wherein the distance between tri arc holes may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand that the distance between tri arc holes may be greater than 5 mm or less than 1 mm so long as the distance between holes provides the necessary space for solvent evaporation. By way of nonlimiting example the distance between tri arc holes may be about 1.8 mm 0.070 in .

In some embodiments filaments of the present invention may have a tri arc cross section. In some embodiments tri arc filaments of the present invention may have a denier per filament dpf suitable for use in smoking articles. In some embodiments tri arc filaments of the present invention may range from a lower limit of about 1 dpf 2 dpf 3 dpf 4 dpf 5 dpf 7 dpf 10 dpf 11 dpf 12 dpf or 13 dpf to an upper limit of about 30 dpf 25 dpf 20 dpf 15 dpf 10 dpf 7 dpf 5 dpf 4 dpf or 3 dpf wherein the dpf of the filaments may range from any upper limit to any lower limit and encompass any subset therebetween. In some embodiments tri arc filaments of the present invention may be high dpf filaments e.g. about 10 dpf or greater. In some embodiments tri arc filaments of the present invention may be about 11 dpf or greater. In some embodiments tri arc filaments of the present invention may be about 12 dpf or greater. In some embodiments tri arc filaments of the present invention may range from about 2 dpf to about 7 dpf or more preferably about 3 dpf to about 5 dpf.

The tri arc filaments may be characterized by a plurality of dimensions including but not limited to the radius R the arc distance C the inter arc distance L or any combination thereof. As shown in a shape of tri arc filaments can be characterized by a four circle approximation as was similarly done for tri arc holes above where the tri arc filament is superimposed with four circles . One circle provides the circular equivalent of the tri arc filament and the remaining three circles overlap the circular equivalent of the tri arc filament so as to form Y shaped nature of the filament. The points where the circular equivalent of the tri arc filament and the three additional circles cross are referred to as crossing points as shown in . From this four circle approximation at least some of the dimensions of the tri arc filament may be measured as shown in . It should be noted that the four circle approximation may be adjusted to oblong shapes as needed to accommodate the tri arc filament cross section.

In some embodiments the radius R of the tri arc filaments which is dependent inter alia on the die radius R may range from a lower limit of about 10 microns 25 microns 50 microns 100 microns or 250 microns to an upper limit of about 500 microns 400 microns 300 microns or 250 microns wherein R may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

In some embodiments the ratio of the arc distance to the inter arc distance C L may range from a lower limit of about 0.2 0.5 or 1 to an upper limit of about 3 2 or 1 wherein C L may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

It should be noted that one skilled in the art should be able to modify the dimensions from above to achieve the desired shapes of the bi arc filaments tetra arc filaments and the like. By way of nonlimiting example C L for a bi arc filament may range from about 0.2 to about 2 depending on inter alia the dimensions of the corresponding bi arc hole the dope composition and the spinning parameters like drawdown ratio and temperature.

Filaments of the present invention may be produced by any method known to one skilled in the art. In some embodiments filaments of the present invention may be produced by spinning a dope through a spinneret. As used herein the term dope refers to a polymer solution and or suspension from which filaments are produced. In some embodiments a dope may comprise polymers and solvents. In some embodiments a dope for use in conjunction with the present invention may comprise polymers solvents and additives. It should be noted that additives are further detailed herein. In some embodiments the polymer may be at a concentration in the dope ranging from about 20 to about 40 percent by weight. In some embodiments the dope may be heated to a temperature ranging from about 40 C. to about 100 C.

Suitable polymers for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to cellulose acetates cellulose diacetates cellulose triacetates cellulose propionates cellulose butyrates cellulose acetate propionates cellulose acetate butyrates cellulose propionate butyrates starch acetates rayon viscose and the like any derivative thereof any copolymer thereof and any combination thereof. In some embodiments suitable cellulose acetates may have a degree of substitution less than about 3 acetyl groups per glucose unit preferably in the range of about 2.2 to about 2.8 and most preferably in the range of about 2.4 to about 2.6.

Suitable solvents for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to water acetone methylethyl ketone methylene chloride dioxane dimethyl formamide methanol ethanol glacial acetic acid supercritical CO any suitable solvent capable of dissolving the aforementioned polymers or any combination thereof. By way of nonlimiting example a solvent for cellulose acetate may be an acetone water mixture.

In some embodiments the spinneret comprising tri arc holes may be a component of a system. Said system may in some embodiments comprise a dope reservoir and at least one tri arc spinneret in fluid communication with the dope reservoir. Optional other elements may include but are not limited to filtration elements heating elements heat exchangers e.g. hot water steam pipes pumps mixers or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments the spinning parameters for use in conjunction with the present invention may include extruding filaments at a drawdown ratio i.e. the fiber exit speed to take up speed ratio ranging from about 0.6 to about 1.6.

It should be understood by one skilled in the art that extruding does not imply a single method or action for producing the filaments and could be interchanged with at least spinning expelling and the like.

In some embodiments producing tri arc filaments of the present invention may involve heating the filaments to a temperature at or above about the evaporation temperature of the solvent to assist in removal of the solvent. Heating may be in the form of direct heat indirect heat or any combination thereof. Further heating may involve heaters heated enclosures e.g. cabinets or tunnels heated surfaces e.g. hot shoes microwaves irradiation sources that cause additives in the filaments e.g. nanoparticles to produce heat or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments producing tri arc filaments of the present invention may involve treating filaments to achieve surface functionality on the filaments. In some embodiments filaments of the present invention may comprise a surface functionality including but not limited to biodegradability sites e.g. defect sites to increase surface area to enhance biodegradability chemical handles e.g. carboxylic acid groups for subsequent functionalization active particle binding sites e.g. sulfide sites binding gold particles or chelating groups for binding iron oxide particles sulfur moieties or any combination thereof. One skilled in the art should understand the plurality of methods and mechanisms to achieve surface functionalities. Some embodiments may involved dipping spraying ionizing functionalizing acidizing hydrolyzing exposing to a plasma exposing to an ionized gas or any combination thereof to achieve surface functionalities. In some embodiments suitable chemicals to impart a surface functionality may be any chemical or collection of chemicals capable of reacting with cellulose acetate including but not limited to acids e.g. sulfuric acid nitric acid acetic acid hydrofluoric acid hydrochloric acid and the like reducing agents e.g. LiAlH NaBH H Pt and the like Grignard reagents e.g. CHMgBr and the like trans esterification reagent amines e.g. R NHlike CHNH or any combination thereof. Exposure to plasmas and or ionized gases may react with the surface produce defects in the surface or any combination thereof. Said defects may increase the surface area of the filaments which may yield higher loading and or higher filtration efficacy in the final filter products.

In some embodiments producing tri arc filaments of the present invention may involve applying a finish to the filaments. Suitable finishes for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to at least one of the following oils e.g. mineral oils or liquid petroleum derivatives water additives or any combination thereof. Examples of suitable mineral oils may include but are not limited to water white i.e. clear mineral oil having a viscosity of 80 95 SUS Sabolt Universal Seconds measured at 38 C. 100 F. . Examples of suitable emulsifiers may include but are not limited to sorbitan monolaurate e.g. SPAN 20 available from Uniqema Wilmington Del. and or poly ethylene oxide sorbitan monolaurate e.g. TWEEN 20 available from Uniqema Wilmington Del. . The water may be de mineralized water de ionized water or otherwise appropriately filtered and treated water.

In some embodiments of the present invention a finish may be applied to filaments of the present invention as a neat finish or as a finish emulsion in water. As used herein the term neat finish refers to a finish formulation without the addition of excess water. It should be noted that finish formulations may comprise water. In some embodiments finish may be applied neat to filaments of the present invention followed by applying water separately.

In some embodiments of the present invention a finish emulsion may comprise less than about 98 water less than about 95 less than about 92 or less than about 85 . In some embodiments it may be advantageous in later steps to have filaments having a lower weight percentage of moisture e.g. about 5 to 25 w w of the tow band of which water of the finish can be a contributor. The water content of the finish emulsion may be at least one parameter that may assist in achieving said weight percentage of moisture in the filaments. Therefore in some embodiments a finish emulsion may comprise less than about 92 water less than about 85 water or less than about 75 water.

In some embodiments tri arc filaments of the present invention may have higher water retention characteristics than Y shaped filaments of a corresponding total denier. In some embodiments tri arc filaments of the present invention may have higher water retention characteristics than Y shaped filaments of a corresponding total denier that ranges from a lower limit of about 5 higher 10 higher or 20 higher to an upper limit of about 40 higher 30 higher or 25 higher wherein the percent increase in water retention characteristics may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

Some embodiments of the present invention may include forming tow bands from a plurality of tri arc filaments of the present invention. In some embodiments a tow band comprising a plurality of tri arc filaments of the present invention may be about 200 000 total denier or less. In some embodiments a tow band comprising a plurality of tri arc filaments of the present invention may be about 100 000 total denier or less. In some embodiments a tow band comprising a plurality of tri arc filaments of the present invention may be about 20 000 total denier or less. In some embodiments tow bands comprising a plurality of tri arc filaments of the present invention may have a total denier ranging from a lower limit of about 1 000 total denier 5 000 total denier 10 000 total denier 20 000 total denier or 50 000 total denier to an upper limit of about 200 000 total denier 150 000 total denier 100 000 total denier 50 000 total denier 20 000 total denier 10 000 total denier or 9 000 total denier and wherein the total denier may range from any upper limit to any lower limit and encompass any subset therebetween. In some embodiments tow bands comprising a plurality of high dpf tri arc filaments e.g. 10 dpf or higher of the present invention may advantageously have a total denier ranging from a lower limit of about 1 000 total denier 1 500 total denier 2 500 total denier or 5 000 total denier to an upper limit of about 20 000 total denier 15 000 total denier 10 000 total denier or 9 000 total denier and wherein the total denier may range from any upper limit to any lower limit and encompass any subset therebetween. In some embodiments tow bands comprising a plurality of about 3 dpf to about 5 dpf tri arc filaments of the present invention may advantageously have a total denier ranging from about 20 000 total denier to about 40 000 total denier.

In some embodiments of the present invention a tow band may comprise more than one type of filament where at least some of the filaments are tri arc filaments of the present invention. In some embodiments the more than one type of filament may vary based on dpf cross sectional shape composition treatment prior to forming the tow band or any combination thereof. Examples of suitable additional filaments may include but are not limited to cellulose acetate filaments filaments of any of the compositions described above e.g. filaments comprising cellulose diacetates cellulose triacetates cellulose propionates cellulose butyrates cellulose acetate propionates cellulose acetate butyrates cellulose propionate butyrates starch acetates acrylonitriles vinyl chlorides vinyl esters vinyl ethers or any combination thereof carbon filaments activated carbon filaments natural fibers synthetic filaments or any combination thereof. Examples of other filament cross section may include but are not limited to circular substantially circular crenulated ovular substantially ovular polygonal substantially polygonal dog bone Y X K C multi lobe other than tri arc and any hybrid thereof.

Some embodiments of the present invention may include crimping tow bands comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention to form a crimped tow band. Crimping tow bands comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention may involve using any suitable crimping technique known to those skilled in the art. These techniques may include a variety of apparatuses including but not limited to a stuffer box or a gear. Nonlimiting examples of crimping apparatuses and the mechanisms by which they work can be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 610 852 and 7 585 441 the relevant disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Suitable stuffer box crimpers may have smooth crimper nip rolls threaded or grooved crimper nip rolls textured crimper nip rolls upper flaps lower flaps or any combination thereof.

The configuration of the crimp of the tow bands comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention may play a role in the processability of the final bale. Examples of crimp configurations may include but are not limited to lateral substantially lateral vertical substantially vertical some degree between lateral and vertical random or any combination thereof. As used herein the term lateral when describing crimp orientation refers to crimp or fiber bends substantially in the plane of the tow band see . As used herein the term vertical when describing a crimp orientation refers to crimp projecting substantially outside of the plane of the tow band and substantially perpendicular to the plane of the tow band see . It should be noted that the terms lateral and vertical refer to general overall crimp orientation and may have deviation from said configuration by about 30 degrees. As used herein substantially modifying lateral or vertical should be taken to mean within a deviation from said configuration of about 45 degrees.

In some embodiments a crimped tow band comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention may have filaments with a first crimp configuration and filaments with a second crimp configuration.

In some embodiments a crimped tow band comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention may have filaments with at least a substantially vertical crimp configuration near the edges and filaments with at least a substantially lateral crimp configuration near the center. In some embodiments a crimped tow band comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention may have filaments with a vertical crimp configuration near the edges and filaments with a lateral crimp configuration near the center.

The configuration of the crimp may be important for the processability of the final bale in subsequent processing steps. By way of nonlimiting example a lateral and or substantially lateral crimp configuration may provide better cohesion of tri arc filaments and optionally additional filaments with a higher dpf in a low total denier tow band as compared to a vertical and or substantially vertical crimp configuration unless further steps are taken to enhance cohesion.

The processing parameters to achieve lateral crimping cohesion additives and additional processing parameters e.g. heat that may be used in conjunction with the production of high dpf low total denier tow band comprising tri arc filaments can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 288 204 entitled High Denier Per Filament and Low Total Denier Tow Bands and Ser. No. 13 288 261 entitled Products of High Denier Per Filament and Low Total Denier Tow Bands both filed Nov. 3 2011 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Further some embodiments may involve heating the tow bands comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention before after and or during crimping. While said heating may be used in conjunction with any crimp configuration it may be advantageous to use said heating with a vertical and or substantially vertical crimp configuration. Said heating may involve exposing the filaments of the tow band to steam aerosolized compounds e.g. plasticizers liquids heated fluids direct heat sources indirect heat sources irradiation sources that causes additives in the filaments e.g. nanoparticles to produce heat or any combination thereof.

Some embodiments may include conditioning the crimped tow band comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention. In some embodiments conditioning may be used to achieve a crimped tow band having a residual acetone content of about 1 or less w w of the crimped tow band. Conditioning may be used to achieve a crimped tow band having a residual water content of about 8 or less w w of the crimped tow band. In some embodiments Conditioning may in some embodiments involve exposing the filaments of the crimped tow band to steam aerosolized compounds e.g. plasticizers liquids heated fluids direct heat sources indirect heat sources irradiation sources that causes additives in the filaments e.g. nanoparticles to produce heat or any combination thereof.

Some embodiments of the present invention may include baling the crimped tow band comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention to produce a bale comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention. In some embodiments baling may involve placing e.g. laying depositing or arranging the crimped tow band comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention in a can in a pattern. It should be noted that can is used generically to refer to a container that may be in any shape preferably square or rectangle and of any material. As used herein the term pattern refers to any design which may or may not change during placing. In some embodiments of the present invention the pattern may be substantially zig zag having a periodicity of about 0.5 cycles ft to about 6 cycles ft. In some embodiments placing may involve puddling the crimped tow band with a puddling index of about 10 m m to about 40 m m. As used herein the term puddling refers to allowing the tow band to lay at least partially on itself so as to place a greater actual length of tow band than linear distance on which it is placed. As used herein the term puddling index refers to the length of tow band per linear distance on which it is placed.

In some embodiments of the present invention baling may involve compressing the crimped tow band comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention that has been placed in a suitable container. In some embodiments baling may involve packaging the compressed crimped tow band comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention. In some embodiments the packaging may include at least one component like wrapping materials vacuum ports for releasing and or pulling vacuum securing elements or any combination thereof. Suitable wrapping materials may include but are not limited to air permeable materials air impermeable materials films e.g. polymeric films polyethylene films plastic wrap heat shrinkable films cardboard wood woven materials i.e. fabric composed of two sets of yarns interlaced with each other to form the fabric non woven materials i.e. assemblies of textile fibers held together by mechanical or chemical means in a random web or mat e.g. fused thermoplastic fibers foil materials e.g. metallic materials and the like or any combination thereof. Suitable securing elements may include but are not limited to VELCRO pins hooks straps e.g. woven non woven fabric and or metallic adhesives tapes melt bondings and the like or any combination thereof. In some embodiments at least a portion of the packaging including any component thereof may be reusable.

In some embodiments bales comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention may have dimensions ranging from about 30 inches 76 cm to about 60 inches 152 cm in height about 46 inches 117 cm to about 56 inches 142 cm in length and about 35 inches 89 cm to about 45 inches 114 cm in width. In some embodiments bales may range in weight from 900 pounds 408 kg to 2100 pounds 953 kg . In some embodiments bales comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention may have a density greater than about 300 kg m 18.8 lb ft .

In some embodiments tri arc filaments of the present invention may comprise additives. Some embodiments of the present invention may involve applying additives to the tri arc filaments of the present invention during any step outlined above or between any steps outlined above. Examples of suitable places to incorporate additives with tri arc filaments of the present invention may include but are not limited to in the dope in the finish in the conditioning or any combination thereof. Further additives may be applied to the tri arc filaments of the present invention at any point before forming the tow band to the tri arc filaments during and or after forming the tow band to the tri arc filaments during and or after crimping the tow band to the tri arc filaments during and or after conditioning or any combination thereof.

Suitable additives for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to active particles active compounds ion exchange resins zeolites nanoparticles ceramic particles softening agents plasticizers pigments dyes flavorants aromas controlled release vesicles microcapsules binders adhesives tackifiers surface modification agents lubricating agents emulsifiers vitamins peroxides biocides antifungals antimicrobials antistatic agents flame retardants antifoaming agents degradation agents conductivity modifying agents stabilizing agents or any combination thereof. In some embodiments achieving tri arc filaments that comprise an additive may be by including the additives in the dope by applying the additives to the tri arc filaments before after and or during formation of a tow band by applying the additives to the tri arc filaments before after and or during crimping the tow band by applying the additives to the tri arc filaments before after and or during conditioning the crimped tow band and any combination thereof. It should be noted that applying includes but is not limited to dipping immersing submerging soaking rinsing washing painting coating showering drizzling spraying placing dusting sprinkling affixing and any combination thereof. Further it should be noted that applying includes but is not limited to surface treatments infusion treatments where the additive incorporates at least partially into the tri arc filament and any combination thereof.

One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand the concentration of the additive will depend at least on the composition of the additive the size of the additive the purpose of the additive the point in the process in which the additive is included and the size of the tri arc filament. By way of nonlimiting example additives may be present in the dope in an amount ranging from about 0.01 to about 10 by weight of the polymer. By way of another nonlimiting example additives that comprise particulates may be included such that the tri arc filament comprises about 0.01 to about 10 by volume of the tri arc filament as part of the tri arc filaments and or on the surface of the tri arc filaments.

Suitable active particles for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to nano scaled carbon particles carbon nanotubes having at least one wall carbon nanohorns bamboo like carbon nanostructures fullerenes fullerene aggregates graphene few layer graphene oxidized graphene iron oxide nanoparticles nanoparticles metal nanoparticles gold nanoparticles silver nanoparticles metal oxide nanoparticles an alumina nanoparticle a magnetic nanoparticle paramagnetic nanoparticle a superparamagnetic nanoparticle a gadolinium oxide nanoparticle a hematite nanoparticle a magnetite nanoparticle a gado nanotube an endofullerene Gd C a core shell nanoparticle an onionated nanoparticle a nanoshell an onionated iron oxide nanoparticle activated carbon an ion exchange resin a desiccant a silicate a molecular sieve a silica gel activated alumina a zeolite perlite sepiolite Fuller s Earth magnesium silicate a metal oxide iron oxide activated carbon and any combination thereof.

Suitable active particles for use in conjunction with the present invention may have at least one dimension of about less than one nanometer such as graphene to as large as a particle having a diameter of about 5000 microns. In some embodiments active particles may range from a lower size limit in at least one dimension of about 0.1 nanometers 0.5 nanometers 1 nanometer 10 nanometers 100 nanometers 500 nanometers 1 micron 5 microns 10 microns 50 microns 100 microns 150 microns 200 microns and 250 microns. In some embodiments the active particles may range from an upper size limit in at least one dimension of about 5000 microns 2000 microns 1000 microns 900 microns 700 microns 500 microns 400 microns 300 microns 250 microns 200 microns 150 microns 100 microns 50 microns 10 microns and 500 nanometers. Any combination of lower limits and upper limits above may be suitable for use in the present invention wherein the selected maximum size is greater than the selected minimum size. In some embodiments the active particles for use in conjunction with the present invention may be a mixture of particle sizes ranging from the above lower and upper limits. In some embodiments the size of the active particles may be polymodal.

Suitable active compounds for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to malic acid potassium carbonate citric acid tartaric acid lactic acid ascorbic acid polyethyleneimine cyclodextrin sodium hydroxide sulphamic acid sodium sulphamate polyvinyl acetate carboxylated acrylate and any combination thereof.

Suitable ion exchange resins for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to polymers with a backbone such as styrene divinyl benezene DVB copolymer acrylates methacrylates phenol formaldehyde condensates and epichlorohydrin amine condensates a plurality of electrically charged functional groups attached to the polymer backbone and any combination thereof.

Suitable zeolites for use in conjunction with the present invention may include crystalline aluminosilicates having pores e.g. channels or cavities of uniform molecular sized dimensions. Suitable zeolites for use in conjunction with the present invention may include natural and synthetic materials. Suitable zeolites may include but are not limited to zeolite BETA Na AlSiO tetragonal zeolite ZSM 5 Na AlSiO 16HO with n

Suitable nanoparticles for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to nano scaled carbon particles like carbon nanotubes of any number of walls carbon nanohorns bamboo like carbon nanostructures fullerenes and fullerene aggregates and graphene including few layer graphene and oxidized graphene metal nanoparticles like gold and silver metal oxide nanoparticles like alumina silica and titania magnetic paramagnetic and superparamagnetic nanoparticles like gadolinium oxide various crystal structures of iron oxide like hematite and magnetite about 12 nm FeO gado nanotubes and endofullerenes like Gd C and core shell and onionated nanoparticles like gold and silver nanoshells onionated iron oxide and other nanoparticles or microparticles with an outer shell of any of said materials or any combination of the foregoing including activated carbon . It should be noted that nanoparticles may include nanorods nanospheres nanorices nanowires nanostars like nanotripods and nanotetrapods hollow nanostructures hybrid nanostructures that are two or more nanoparticles connected as one and non nano particles with nano coatings or nano thick walls. It should be further noted that nanoparticles for use in conjunction with the present invention may include the functionalized derivatives of nanoparticles including but not limited to nanoparticles that have been functionalized covalently and or non covalently e.g. pi stacking physisorption ionic association van der Waals association and the like. Suitable functional groups may include but are not limited to moieties comprising amines 1 2 or 3 amides carboxylic acids aldehydes ketones ethers esters peroxides silyls organosilanes hydrocarbons aromatic hydrocarbons and any combination thereof polymers chelating agents like ethylenediamine tetraacetate diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid triglycollamic acid and a structure comprising a pyrrole ring and any combination thereof. Functional groups may enhance removal of smoke components and or enhance incorporation of nanoparticles into or onto the tri arc filaments of the present invention.

Suitable softening agents and or plasticizers for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to water glycerol triacetate triacetin triethyl citrate dimethoxy ethyl phthalate dimethyl phthalate diethyl phthalate methyl phthalyl ethyl glycolate o phenyl phenyl bis phenyl phosphate 1 4 butanediol diacetate diacetate dipropionate ester of triethylene glycol dibutyrate ester of triethylene glycol dimethoxyethyl phthalate triethyl citrate triacetyl glycerin and the like any derivative thereof and any combination thereof. One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand the concentration of plasticizers to use as an additive to the filaments. By way of non limiting example the plasticizer may be added to the dope in an amount sufficient to prevent rupture or bursting of the filament surface upon sudden thermal discharge of the adsorbed solvent.

As used herein pigments refer to compounds and or particles that impart color and are incorporated throughout the filaments. Suitable pigments for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to titanium dioxide silicon dioxide tartrazine E102 phthalocyanine blue phthalocyanine green quinacridones perylene tetracarboxylic acid di imides dioxazines perinones disazo pigments anthraquinone pigments carbon black metal powders iron oxide ultramarine calcium carbonate kaolin clay aluminum hydroxide barium sulfate zinc oxide aluminum oxide or any combination thereof.

As used herein dyes refer to compounds and or particles that impart color and are a surface treatment of the filaments. Suitable dyes may include but are not limited to CARTASOL dyes cationic dyes available from Clariant Services in liquid and or granular form e.g. CARTASOL Brilliant Yellow K 6G liquid CARTASOL Yellow K 4GL liquid CARTASOL Yellow K GL liquid CARTASOL Orange K 3GL liquid CARTASOL Scarlet K 2GL liquid CARTASOL Red K 3BN liquid CARTASOL Blue K 5R liquid CARTASOL Blue K RL liquid CARTASOL Turquoise K RL liquid granules CARTASOL Brown K BL liquid FASTUSOL dyes an auxochrome available from BASF e.g. Yellow 3GL Fastusol C Blue 74L .

Suitable flavorants for use in conjunction with the present invention may be any flavorant suitable for use in smoking device filters including those that impart a taste and or a flavor to the smoke stream. Suitable flavorants for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to organic material or naturally flavored particles carriers for natural flavors carriers for artificial flavors and any combination thereof. Organic materials or naturally flavored particles include but are not limited to tobacco cloves e.g. ground cloves and clove flowers cocoa mint peppermint spearmint vanilla cinnamon and the like. Natural and artificial flavors may include but are not limited to menthol cloves cherry chocolate orange mint mango vanilla cinnamon tobacco licorice citrus fruit flavors banana strawberry grape cherry spice flavors ginger black tea green tea and the like. Such flavors may be provided by menthol anethole licorice anisole limonene citrus eugenol clove tea leaves gamma octalactone vanillin ethyl vanillin methyl salicylate linalool bergamot oil geranium oil lemon oil ginger oil phenylacetic acid solanone megastigmatrienone 2 heptanone benzylalcohol cis 3 hexenyl acetate valeric acid valeric aldehyde ester terpene sesquiterpene nootkatone maltol damascenone pyrazine lactone iso valeric acid and the like or any combination thereof. In some embodiments more than one flavorant may be used including any combination of the flavorants provided herein. These flavorants may be placed in the tobacco column or in a section of a filter. Additionally in some embodiments the tri arc filaments of the present invention may comprise a flavorant. In some embodiments with smoking articles the amount of flavorant to include will depend on the desired level of flavor in the smoke taking into account all filter sections the length of the smoking device the type of smoking device the diameter of the smoking device as well as other factors known to those of skill in the art.

Suitable aromas for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to methyl formate methyl acetate methyl butyrate ethyl acetate ethyl butyrate isoamyl acetate pentyl butyrate pentyl pentanoate octyl acetate myrcene geraniol nerol citral citronellal citronellol linalool nerolidol limonene camphor terpineol alpha ionone thujone benzaldehyde eugenol cinnamaldehyde ethyl maltol vanilla anisole anethole estragole thymol furaneol methanol or any combination thereof. Further a suitable aroma additive for use in conjunction with the present invention is a deodorant additive.

As used herein microcapsules refer to porous microparticles spherical or otherwise having exterior surface pores and having diameters of less than about 1 micron to about 1000 microns. In some embodiments microcapsules may comprise any of the additives described herein singularly or in combination provided the additives are suitably sized to fit within the inner contents and maintain operability of the microcapsule. Suitable microcapsules for use in conjunction with the present invention may be those formed by any suitable technique which may include but is not limited to those described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 064 949 entitled Cellulose Ester Microparticles and Processes for Making the Same and U.S. Pat. No. 5 047 180 entitled Process for Making Cellulose Ester Microparticles the relevant disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Suitable microcapsules for use in conjunction with the present invention may be formed of any suitable materials which may include but are not limited to gelatins celluloses modified celluloses methylcellulose hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose chlorophyllin polyvinylalcohol polyvinyl pyrrolidone and the like or any combination thereof.

Suitable binders for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to polyolefins polyesters polyamides or nylons polyacrylics polystyrenes polyvinyls polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE polyether ether ketone PEEK any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof and any combination thereof. Non fibrous plasticized cellulose derivatives may also be suitable for use as binder particles in the present invention. Examples of suitable polyolefins may include but are not limited to polyethylene polypropylene polybutylene polymethylpentene and the like any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof and any combination thereof. Examples of suitable polyethylenes may include but are not limited to ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene very high molecular weight polyethylene high molecular weight polyethylene low density polyethylene linear low density polyethylene high density polyethylene and the like any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof and any combination thereof. Examples of suitable polyesters may include but are not limited to polyethylene terephthalate polybutylene terephthalate polycyclohexylene dimethylene terephthalate polytrimethylene terephthalate and the like any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof and any combination thereof. Examples of suitable polyacrylics may include but are not limited to polymethyl methacrylate and the like any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof and any combination thereof. Examples of suitable polystyrenes may include but are not limited to polystyrene acrylonitrile butadiene styrene styrene acrylonitrile styrene butadiene styrene maleic anhydride and the like any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof and any combination thereof. Examples of suitable polyvinyls may include but are not limited to ethylene vinyl acetate ethylene vinyl alcohol polyvinyl chloride and the like any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof and any combination thereof. Examples of suitable cellulosics may include but are not limited to cellulose acetate cellulose acetate butyrate plasticized cellulosics cellulose propionate ethyl cellulose and the like any copolymer thereof any derivative thereof and any combination thereof. In some embodiments binder particles may comprise any copolymer any derivative or any combination of the above listed binders. Further binder particles may be impregnated with and or coated with any combination of additives disclosed herein.

Suitable tackifiers for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to methylcellulose ethylcellulose hydroxyethylcellulose carboxy methylcellulose carboxy ethylcellulose water soluble cellulose acetate amides diamines polyesters polycarbonates silyl modified polyamide compounds polycarbamates urethanes natural resins shellacs acrylic acid polymers 2 ethylhexylacrylate acrylic acid ester polymers acrylic acid derivative polymers acrylic acid homopolymers anacrylic acid ester homopolymers poly methyl acrylate poly butyl acrylate poly 2 ethylhexyl acrylate acrylic acid ester co polymers methacrylic acid derivative polymers methacrylic acid homopolymers methacrylic acid ester homopolymers poly methyl methacrylate poly butyl methacrylate poly 2 ethylhexyl methacrylate acrylamido methyl propane sulfonate polymers acrylamido methyl propane sulfonate derivative polymers acrylamido methyl propane sulfonate co polymers acrylic acid acrylamido methyl propane sulfonate co polymers benzyl coco di hydroxyethyl quaternary amines p T amyl phenols condensed with formaldehyde dialkyl amino alkyl meth acrylates acrylamides N dialkyl amino alkyl acrylamide methacrylamides hydroxy alkyl meth acrylates methacrylic acids acrylic acids hydroxyethyl acrylates and the like any derivative thereof or any combination thereof.

Suitable lubricating agents for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to ethoxylated fatty acids e.g. the reaction product of ethylene oxide with pelargonic acid to form poly ethylene glycol PEG monopelargonate the reaction product of ethylene oxide with coconut fatty acids to form PEG monolaurate and the like or any combination thereof. The lubricant agents may also be selected from non water soluble materials such as synthetic hydrocarbon oils alkyl esters e.g. tridecyl stearate which is the reaction product of tridecyl alcohol and stearic acid polyol esters e.g. trimethylol propane tripelargonate and pentaerythritol tetrapelargonate and the like or any combination thereof.

Suitable emulsifiers for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to sorbitan monolaurate e.g. SPAN 20 available from Uniqema Wilmington Del. and poly ethylene oxide sorbitan monolaurate e.g. TWEEN 20 available from Uniqema Wilmington Del. .

Suitable vitamins for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to vitamin A vitamin B1 vitamin B2 vitamin C vitamin D vitamin E or any combination thereof.

Suitable antimicrobials for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to anti microbial metal ions chlorhexidine chlorhexidine salt triclosan polymoxin tetracycline amino glycoside e.g. gentamicin rifampicin bacitracin erythromycin neomycin chloramphenicol miconazole quinolone penicillin nonoxynol 9 fusidic acid cephalosporin mupirocin metronidazolea secropin protegrin bacteriolcin defensin nitrofurazone mafenide acyclovir vanocmycin clindamycin lincomycin sulfonamide norfloxacin pefloxacin nalidizic acid oxalic acid enoxacin acid ciprofloxacin polyhexamethylene biguanide PHMB PHMB derivatives e.g. biodegradable biguanides like polyethylene hexaniethylene biguanide PEHMB clilorhexidine gluconate chlorohexidine hydrochloride ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA EDTA derivatives e.g. disodium EDTA or tetrasodium EDTA and the like and any combination thereof.

Suitable antistatic agents for use in conjunction with the present invention may comprise any suitable anionic cationic amphoteric or nonionic antistatic agent. Anionic antistatic agents may generally include but are not limited to alkali sulfates alkali phosphates phosphate esters of alcohols phosphate esters of ethoxylated alcohols or any combination thereof. Examples may include but are not limited to alkali neutralized phosphate ester e.g. TRYFAC 5559 or TRYFRAC 5576 available from Henkel Corporation Mauldin S.C. . Cationic antistatic agents may generally include but are not limited to quaternary ammonium salts and imidazolines which possess a positive charge. Examples of nonionics include the poly oxyalkylene derivatives e.g. ethoxylated fatty acids like EMEREST 2650 an ethoxylated fatty acid available from Henkel Corporation Mauldin S.C. ethoxylated fatty alcohols like TRYCOL 5964 an ethoxylated lauryl alcohol available from Henkel Corporation Mauldin S.C. ethoxylated fatty amines like TRYMEEN 6606 an ethoxylated tallow amine available from Henkel Corporation Mauldin S.C. alkanolamides like EMID 6545 an oleic diethanolamine available from Henkel Corporation Mauldin S.C. or any combination thereof. Anionic and cationic materials tend to be more effective antistats.

In some embodiments of the present invention a bale of crimped tow band comprising tri arc filaments may be used to form filter rods filters filter sections or any combination thereof that are suitable for use with smoking devices. For simplicity the term filter like composition will be used herein to describe filter rods filters and filter sections. Examples of suitable tow bands comprising tri arc filaments may be those according to the various embodiments disclosed herein. In some embodiments a bale of tow band crimped or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments may be used in producing filter like compositions. In some embodiments a bale may comprise more than one tow band where at least one tow band comprises comprising tri arc filaments.

In some embodiments of the present invention filter like compositions may include feeding a tow band crimped or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments from a bale into an apparatus capable of producing filter like compositions or most preferably producing filter like compositions. In some embodiments of the present invention producing a filter rod comprising tri arc filaments may include several steps including but not limited to at least one of the following blooming the tow band comprising tri arc filaments from the bale into a bloomed tow band comprising tri arc filaments optionally treating the bloomed tow band comprising tri arc filaments with an additive channeling the bloomed tow band comprising tri arc filaments yielding a continuous tow cable comprising tri arc filaments wrapping a continuous tow cable comprising tri arc filaments with a paper yielding a wrapped tow rod comprising tri arc filaments adhering the paper of a wrapped tow rod comprising tri arc filaments yielding a filter rod length comprising tri arc filaments cutting the filter rod length comprising tri arc filaments into filter like compositions comprising tri arc filaments or any combination thereof. In some embodiments producing filters and or filter sections comprising tri arc filaments may involve cutting filter rod lengths or filter rods comprising tri arc filaments. In some embodiments producing filter sections comprising tri arc filaments may involve cutting filter rod lengths filter rods or filters comprising tri arc filaments.

In some embodiments wrapped tow rods filter rod lengths and or filter like compositions comprising tri arc filaments may have a circumference ranging from a lower limit of about 5 mm 6 mm 7 mm 8 mm 9 mm 10 mm 11 mm 12 mm 13 mm 14 mm 15 mm 16 mm 17 mm 18 mm 19 mm 20 mm 21 mm 22 mm 23 mm 24 mm 25 mm or 26 mm to an upper limit of about 60 mm 50 mm 40 mm 30 mm 29 mm 28 mm 27 mm 26 mm 25 mm 24 mm 23 mm 22 mm 21 mm 20 mm 19 mm 18 mm 17 mm or 16 mm wherein the circumference may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

In some embodiments of the present invention filter rod lengths and or filter like compositions comprising tri arc filaments may have any cross sectional shape including but not limited to circular substantially circular ovular substantially ovular polygonal including those with rounded corners or any hybrid thereof.

Some embodiments of the present invention for producing filter like compositions comprising tri arc filaments may involve treating the bloomed tow band comprising tri arc filaments at least once with additives. In some embodiments treating may occur while the bloomed tow band comprising tri arc filaments has a large edge to edge width and or while channeling the bloomed tow band comprising tri arc filaments. It may be advantageous but not required that when the additive is in a particulate form said treating occurs during channeling. It should be noted that treating may be done by any method including but not limited to applying dipping immersing submerging soaking rinsing washing painting coating showering drizzling spraying placing dusting sprinkling affixing or any combination thereof.

Suitable additives may be those delineated above including but not limited to active particles active compounds ion exchange resins zeolites nanoparticles ceramic particles softening agents plasticizers pigments dyes flavorants aromas controlled release vesicles microcapsules binders adhesives tackifiers surface modification agents lubricating agents emulsifiers vitamins peroxides biocides antifungals antimicrobials antistatic agents flame retardants antifoaming agents degradation agents conductivity modifying agents stabilizing agents and any combination thereof.

In some embodiments of the present invention additives e.g. active particles and or active compounds may be capable of reducing and or removing a smoke stream component from a smoke stream. One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand that a smoke stream may be interchanged with a fluid stream for other filter applications. Examples of smoke stream components may include but are not limited to acetaldehyde acetamide acetone acrolein acrylamide acrylonitrile aflatoxin B 1 4 aminobiphenyl 1 aminonaphthalene 2 aminonaphthalene ammonia ammonium salts anabasine anatabine 0 anisidine arsenic A a C benz a anthracene benz b fluoroanthene benz j aceanthrylene benz k fluoroanthene benzene benzo b furan benzo a pyrene benzo c phenanthrene beryllium 1 3 butadiene butyraldehyde cadmium caffeic acid carbon monoxide catechol chlorinated dioxins furans chromium chrysene cobalt coumarin a cresol crotonaldehyde cyclopenta c d pyrene dibenz a h acridine dibenz a j acridine dibenz a h anthracene dibenzo c g carbazole dibenzo a e pyrene dibenzo a h pyrene dibenzo a i pyrene dibenzo a l pyrene 2 6 dimethylaniline ethyl carbamate urethane ethylbenzene ethylene oxide eugenol formaldehyde furan glu P 1 glu P 2 hydrazine hydrogen cyanide hydroquinone indeno 1 2 3 cd pyrene IQ isoprene lead MeA C mercury methyl ethyl ketone 5 methylchrysene 4 methylnitrosamino 1 3 pyridyI 1 butanone NNK 4 methylnitrosamino 1 3 pyridyl 1 butanol NNAL naphthalene nickel nicotine nitrate nitric oxide a nitrogen oxide nitrite nitrobenzene nitromethane 2 nitropropane N nitrosoanabasine NAB N nitrosodiethanolamine NDELA N nitrosodiethylamine N nitrosodimethylamine NDMA N nitrosoethylmethylamine N nitrosomorpholine NMOR N nitrosonornicotine NNN N nitrosopiperidine NPIP N nitrosopyrrolidine NPYR N nitrososarcosine NSAR phenol PhIP polonium 210 radio isotope propionaldehyde propylene oxide pyridine quinoline resorcinol selenium styrene tar 2 toluidine toluene Trp P 1 Trp P 2 uranium 235 radio isotope uranium 238 radio isotope vinyl acetate vinyl chloride or any combination thereof. In some embodiments of the present invention additives may be capable of reducing and or removing a component from a fluid stream. Suitable components may include but are not limited to dust particulates pollen mold bacteria ozone and the like or any combination thereof.

Suitable papers for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to tipping papers plug wrap papers tipping base papers wood based papers paper containing flaxs flax papers functionalized papers special marking papers colorized papers high porosity papers corrugated papers high surface strength papers or any combination thereof. One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should recognize that the paper may be substituted with any known sheet material. In some embodiments papers for use in conjunction with the present invention may comprise additives sizings printability agents or any combination thereof.

Some embodiments of the present invention may involve adhering the paper of a wrapped tow rod comprising tri arc filaments yielding a filter rod length comprising tri arc filaments. Adhering may be achieved with any known adhesive capable of adhesively securing the paper wrapped about the tow rod.

Some embodiments of the present invention may involve cutting the filter rod length comprising tri arc filaments into filter like compositions comprising tri arc filaments. Cutting may involve any known method and or apparatus of cutting. The length of a filter rod comprising tri arc filaments may range from a lower limit of about 50 mm 75 mm or 100 mm to an upper limit of about 150 mm 140 mm 130 mm 120 mm 110 mm or 100 mm and wherein the length may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. The length of a filter comprising tri arc filaments may range from a lower limit of about 20 mm 25 mm or 30 mm to an upper limit of about 50 mm 45 mm or 40 mm and wherein the length may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween. The length of a filter section comprising tri arc filaments may range from a lower limit of about 3 mm 4 mm or 5 mm to an upper limit of about 20 mm 15 mm 14 mm 13 mm 12 mm 11 mm or 10 mm and wherein the length may range from any lower limit to any upper limit and encompass any subset therebetween.

In some embodiments of the present invention filter like compositions comprising tri arc filaments may be characterized by the draw characteristic. One measure of draw characteristics is the encapsulated pressure drop. As used herein the term encapsulated pressure drop or EPD refers to the static pressure difference between the two ends of a specimen when it is traversed by an air flow under steady conditions when the volume flow is 17.5 ml sec at the output end when the specimen is completely encapsulated in a measuring device so that no air can pass through the wrapping. EPD has been measured herein under the CORESTA Cooperation Centre for Scientific Research Relative to Tobacco Recommended Method No. 41 dated June 2007. Higher EPD values translate to the smoker having to draw on a smoking device with greater force.

Some embodiments of the present invention may involve connecting at least two filter sections with at least one filter section comprising tri arc filaments. Some embodiments may involve connecting at least two filter sections comprising tri arc filaments in fluid communication with each other. Connecting may include but is not limited to joining attaching combining associating coupling or the like. In some embodiments connecting may be end to end along the longitudinal axis of the filter sections with at least one filter section comprising tri arc filaments. In some embodiments connecting at least two filter sections at least one of which comprises tri arc filaments may form a sectioned filter and or a sectioned filter rod comprising tri arc filaments. Some embodiments may involve providing at least two filter sections at least one of which comprises tri arc filaments in respective containers e.g. hoppers crates boxes drums bags or cartons before connecting. Some embodiments may comprise feeding the at least two filter sections into a row wherein the sections are alternated. Some embodiments may involve wrapping the at least two filter sections at least one of which comprises tri arc filaments with a paper to form a segmented filter and or a segmented filter rod comprising tri arc filaments. Some embodiments may involve transporting the segmented filter and or the segmented filter rod comprising tri arc filaments for storage or use.

In some embodiments a filter comprising tri arc filaments may be a sectioned filter comprising tri arc filaments. In some embodiments sectioned filters comprising tri arc filaments may comprise at least one first section that comprises tri arc filaments and at least one second filter section different from the first section that may or may not comprise tri arc filaments. Suitable second filter sections for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to cavities porous masses polypropylene polyethylene polyolefin tow polypropylene tow polyethylene terephthalate polybutylene terephthalate random oriented acetate papers corrugated papers concentric filters carbon on tow silica magnesium silicate zeolites molecular sieves salts catalysts sodium chloride nylon flavorants tobacco capsules cellulose cellulosic derivatives cellulose acetate catalytic converters iodine pentoxide coarse powders carbon particles carbon fibers fibers glass beads nanoparticles void chambers baffled void chambers or any combination thereof. It should be noted that first and second are used for clarity in the description and do not imply any order or positional relationship. In some embodiments the first filter section and the second filter section may be different filter sections described herein e.g. different additives different additive concentrations different EPD different total denier different dpf or any combination thereof. In some embodiments the first and second filter sections may comprise substantially the same components e.g. tri arc cellulose acetate filaments activated carbon additives and menthol flavorants in microcapsules but have different EPD values.

In some embodiments of the present invention filter like compositions sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments may comprise at least one cavity. In some embodiments a cavity may be between two filter sections. The cavity may be filled with a variety of substances including but not limited to additives including any described herein that are appropriately sized granulated carbon flavorants catalysts molecular sieves zeolites or any combination thereof. The cavity may contain a capsule e.g. a polymeric capsule that itself contains a flavorant or catalyst. In some embodiments said capsule may completely or partially fill the cavity. The cavity in some embodiments may also contain a molecular sieve that reacts with selected components in the smoke to remove or reduce the concentration of the components without adversely affecting desirable flavor constituents of the smoke. In some embodiments the cavity may include tobacco as an additional flavorant. In some embodiments a sectioned filter comprising tri arc filaments of the present invention may comprise first and second filter sections that are substantially the same or the same where between the sections a cavity resides where the cavity may or may not hold a capsule. It should be noted that a cavity insufficiently filled with a chosen substance may lack sufficient interaction between the components of the mainstream smoke and the substance in the cavity.

In some embodiments of the present invention filter like compositions sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments may have a circumference less than about 17 mm and an encapsulated pressure drop EPD of about 4.5 mm water mm length or less about 3.5 mm water mm length or less about 2.5 mm water mm length or less or about 2 mm water mm length or less.

In some embodiments of the present invention filter like compositions sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments may have a circumference less than about 26 mm and an encapsulated pressure drop EPD of about 4.5 mm water mm length or less about 3.5 mm water mm length or less about 2.5 mm water mm length or less or about 2 mm water mm length or less.

Because of the tri arc cross section of filaments of the present invention the tri arc filaments may be able to accommodate more additives in filter like compositions and maintain encapsulated pressure drops desirable to smokers. In some embodiments of the present invention filter like compositions sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments may have a circumference of about 17 mm or less and an effective amount of an additive to achieve an EPD of about 3.5 to about 20 mm water mm length or less wherein without the additive the filter like composition may have an EPD of about 3 mm water mm length or less. In some embodiments filter like compositions sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments may have a circumference of about 17 mm or less and an effective amount of an additive to achieve an EPD of about 2.5 to about 20 mm water mm length or less wherein without the additive the filter like composition may have an EPD of about 2 mm water mm length or less.

In some embodiments of the present invention filter like compositions sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments may have a circumference of about 26 mm or less and an effective amount of an additive to achieve an EPD of about 3.5 to about 20 mm water mm length or less wherein without the additive the filter like composition may have an EPD of about 3 mm water mm length or less. In some embodiments filter like compositions sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments may have a circumference of about 26 mm or less and an effective amount of an additive to achieve an EPD of about 2.5 to about 20 mm water mm length or less wherein without the additive the filter like composition may have an EPD of about 2 mm water mm length or less.

Some embodiments of the present invention may involve operably connecting filter like compositions sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments to a smokeable substance. Some embodiments may involve connecting filter like compositions sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments to a smokeable substance such that filter like compositions are in fluid communication with the smokeable substance.

In some embodiments of the present invention filter like compositions sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments to a smokeable substance may be in fluid communication with a smokeable substance. In some embodiments a smoking device may comprise a filter like composition sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments to a smokeable substance in fluid communication with a smokeable substance. In some embodiments of the present invention a smoking device may comprise a housing operably capable of maintaining a filter like composition sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments in fluid communication with a smokeable substance. In some embodiments a filter like composition sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments may be removable replaceable and or disposable from the housing.

As used herein the term smokeable substance refers to a material capable of producing smoke when burned or heated. Suitable smokeable substances may include but are not limited to tobaccos e.g. bright leaf tobacco Oriental tobacco Turkish tobacco Cavendish tobacco corojo tobacco criollo tobacco Perique tobacco shade tobacco white burley tobacco flue cured tobacco Burley tobacco Maryland tobacco Virginia tobacco teas herbs carbonized or pyrolyzed components inorganic filler components or any combination thereof. Tobacco may have the form of tobacco laminae in cut filler form processed tobacco stems reconstituted tobacco filler volume expanded tobacco filler and the like. Tobacco and other grown smokeable substances may be grown in the United States or may be grown in a jurisdiction outside the United States.

In some embodiments a smokeable substance may be in a column format e.g. a tobacco column. As used herein the term tobacco column refers to the blend of tobacco and optionally other ingredients and flavorants that may be combined to produce a tobacco based smokeable article such as a cigarette or cigar. In some embodiments the tobacco column may comprise ingredients selected from the group consisting of tobacco sugar such as sucrose brown sugar invert sugar or high fructose corn syrup propylene glycol glycerol cocoa cocoa products carob bean gums carob bean extracts and any combination thereof. In still other embodiments the tobacco column may further comprise flavorants aromas menthol licorice extract diammonium phosphate ammonium hydroxide and any combination thereof. In some embodiments tobacco columns may comprise additives including those described herein. In some embodiments tobacco columns may comprise at least one bendable element.

Suitable housings for use in conjunction with the present invention may include but are not limited to cigarette cigarette holder cigars cigar holders pipes water pipes hookahs electronic smoking devices roll your own cigarettes roll your own cigars papers or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments of the present invention filter like compositions sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments may be degradable over time either naturally or in the presence of a catalyst. As used herein the term degradable refers to the ability to decompose when exposed to an outdoor environment i.e. exposed to rain dew or other sources of water . The degree of degradation is at a minimum sufficient to convert the cellulose acetate into cellulose and at a maximum sufficient to convert the cellulose acetate into glucose. In some embodiments degradation may occur over at least 1 month about 6 months or less about 2 years or less or about 5 years or less. One skilled in the art with the benefit of this disclosure should understand that the environmental condition e.g. exposure to light and relative humidity and the additives e.g. catalysts of the filter like compositions will affect the rate of degradation.

In some embodiments of the present invention the filter like compositions sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments may be recyclable.

In some embodiments of the present invention a pack of filters may comprise filter like compositions sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments according to any embodiment described herein. Packs may be a hinge lid pack a slide and shell pack a hard cup pack a soft cup pack or any other suitable pack container. In some embodiments packs may have an outer wrapping such as a polypropylene wrapper and optionally a tear tab. In some embodiments the filter like compositions sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments may be sealed as a bundle inside a pack. A bundle may contain any number of filter like compositions sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments e.g. 10 or more. However a bundle may include a single filter like composition sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments such as those for individual sale or those comprising a specific spice like vanilla clove or cinnamon.

In some embodiments a pack of smoking devices may comprise at least one smoking device having a filter like composition sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments according to any embodiment described herein. Packs may be a hinge lid pack a slide and shell pack a hard cup pack a soft cup pack or any other suitable pack container. In some embodiments of the present invention the smoking devices may be sealed as a bundle inside a pack. A bundle may contain a number of smoking devices e.g. 10 or more. However a bundle may include a single smoking device in some embodiments such as a cigar or a smoking device comprising a specific spice like vanilla clove or cinnamon.

In some embodiments the present invention provides a carton of smoking device packs that includes at least one pack of smoking devices that includes at least one smoking device having a filter like composition sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments according to any embodiment described herein. In some embodiments the carton e.g. a container has the physical integrity to contain the weight from the packs of cigarettes.

Because it is expected that a consumer will smoke a smoking device that includes a filter like composition sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments according to any embodiment described herein the present invention also provides methods of smoking such a smoking device. For example in one embodiment the present invention provides a method of smoking a smoking device comprising heating or lighting a smoking device to form smoke the smoking device comprising a filter like composition sectioned or otherwise comprising tri arc filaments according to any embodiment described herein and drawing the smoke through the smoking device wherein the filter like composition reduces the presence of at least one component in the smoke stream. In some embodiments the smoking device is a cigarette. In other embodiments the smoking device is a cigar a pipe a water pipe a hookah an electronic smoking device a smokeless smoking device a roll your own cigarette a roll your own cigar or another smoking device.

To facilitate a better understanding of the present invention the following representative examples of preferred embodiments are given. In no way should the following examples be read to limit or to define the scope of the invention.

Two spinnerets with tri arc holes were produced by hand with a die punch having a tri arc hole shape where Spinneret A has a radius R of 40 microns and Spinneret B has tri arc holes with a radius R of 40 microns.

Tri arc filaments were spun from a dope comprising cellulose acetate and acetone at a speed of 365 m min a dope temperature of 72 C. an air temperature of 80 C. and an elongation of about 28 30 . The total denier of the produced tri arc filaments ranged from about 5.7 dpf to about 6.9 dpf. Y shaped cellulose acetate filaments with a similar dpf were used as a control.

The filaments of the various samples tri arc A filaments tri arc B filaments and Y shaped filaments were used to produce individual knit samples and tested for water retention characteristics. First the knit samples were weighed submerged in deionized water for 30 seconds allowed to drip dry for 60 seconds and re weighed. Water retention as reported by wet weight divided by dry weight was then calculated. The Y shaped filaments had a water retention of about 3.4 the tri arc A filaments of about 3.7 about 9 greater than the Y shaped filaments and the tri arc B filaments of about 4.5 about 32 greater than the Y shaped filaments . Without being limited by theory it is believed that the higher void space between the tips of the filaments the bulbous tip ends that may hinder water escape and the higher surface area of the tri arc B filaments provided for at least in part the higher water retention characteristics.

Tri arc filaments having about 16 18 denier per filament were prepared with two spinnerets having different tri arc holes having a radius R of about 60 70 microns. Spinneret C with tri arc C holes had an inter arc angle of about 60 and spinneret D with tri arc D holes having an inter arc angle of about 120 . For both a dope comprising acetone and cellulose acetate was spun using the respective spinneret a draw down speed of about 350 m min a dope temperature of 72 C. an air temperature of 85 C. and an elongation of about 29 37 .

Tri arc filaments having about 6 8 denier per filament were prepared with two spinnerets having different tri arc holes having a radius R of about 25 40 microns. Spinneret E with tri arc E holes had an inter arc angle of about 60 and spinneret F with tri arc F holes having an inter arc angle of about 120 . For both a dope comprising acetone and cellulose acetate was spun using the respective spinneret a draw down speed of about 365 m min a dope temperature of 72 C. an air temperature of 80 C. and an elongation of about 28 44 .

Tri arc filaments having about 18 22 denier per filament were prepared with spinnerets C and D from Example 2. Spinneret C was used to produce tri arc filaments G and spinneret D was used to produce tri arc filaments H. For both a dope comprising acetone and cellulose acetate was spun using the respective spinneret a draw down speed of about 350 m min a dope temperature of 72 C. an air temperature of 85 C. and an elongation of about 38 41 .

Comparing the tri arc filaments an inter arc angle of about 60 A C E and G to the tri arc filaments with an inter arc angle of about 120 B D F and H it appears generally that the 120 samples have a more distinct bulb at the end that does not transition as smoothly into the filament as the 60 samples. Further the bulbs at the end of the tips of the 120 samples generally tend to have more arcing characteristic.

Additionally comparing samples with the same arc angle it appears that higher denier per filament samples retain a more uniform tri arc shape.

Therefore the present invention is well adapted to attain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those that are inherent therein. The particular embodiments disclosed above are illustrative only as the present invention may be modified and practiced in different but equivalent manners apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings herein. Furthermore no limitations are intended to the details of construction or design herein shown other than as described in the claims below. It is therefore evident that the particular illustrative embodiments disclosed above may be altered combined or modified and all such variations are considered within the scope and spirit of the present invention. The invention illustratively disclosed herein suitably may be practiced in the absence of any element that is not specifically disclosed herein and or any optional element disclosed herein. While compositions and methods are described in terms of comprising containing or including various components or steps the compositions and methods can also consist essentially of or consist of the various components and steps. All numbers and ranges disclosed above may vary by some amount. Whenever a numerical range with a lower limit and an upper limit is disclosed any number and any included range falling within the range is specifically disclosed. In particular every range of values of the form from about a to about b or equivalently from approximately a to b or equivalently from approximately a b disclosed herein is to be understood to set forth every number and range encompassed within the broader range of values. Also the terms in the claims have their plain ordinary meaning unless otherwise explicitly and clearly defined by the patentee. Moreover the indefinite articles a or an as used in the claims are defined herein to mean one or more than one of the element that it introduces. If there is any conflict in the usages of a word or term in this specification and one or more patent or other documents that may be incorporated herein by reference the definitions that are consistent with this specification should be adopted.

