---

title: Communications system
abstract: Methods and systems for integrated communications are provided. In one embodiment, a request to initiate a call via a channel is received. A call participant set associated with the channel is identified. A sequence of communications associated with the call is received. The sequence of communications includes at least a real-time media data type and a posted data type. The sequence of communications is transmitted to the call. Other methods and systems are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09210143&OS=09210143&RS=09210143
owner: Talko Inc.
number: 09210143
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120516
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 486 531 entitled COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on May 16 2011 the entire disclosures of all of which applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to communications systems and more particularly relates to multi data type communications systems.

A variety of communications systems and mechanisms are frequently used in both business related and personal interactions. The communications systems that are available can often shape the way people interact with one another. Communication and expression may often have to be forced through an ineffective communication medium. At times the restrictions provided by the modality of communication such as audio only text only two party only synchronous only or asynchronous only etc. can place limitations and restrictions on the expression of ideas. The result may be that individuals may be left with an incomplete or inadequate ability for expression communication or interaction.

According to a first implementation a method may include receiving a request for authentication of a user. An authentication communication may be generated via a third party application associated with the user. The method may also include transmitting the authentication communication to an authentication system.

One or more of the following features may be included. The request for authentication may include a request for authentication associated with the third party application. The third party application may include one or more of an email communication application an SMS communication application an instant messaging application and a social networking application.

Generating the authentication communication may include transmitting an authentication request to the third party application. Generating the authentication communication may include pre populating a communication content including a user identification. Generating the authentication communication may include pre populating a communication content including an authentication code. Generating the authentication communication may include pre populating a communication recipient. Generating the authentication communication may include receiving a user credential associated with a communication application. The method may further include authenticating the user.

According to another implementation a computer program product includes a computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored on it. When executed by a processor the instructions may cause the processor to perform operations including receiving a request for authentication of a user. Instructions may also be included for generating an authentication communication via a third party application associated with the user. Instructions may further be included for transmitting the authentication communication to an authentication system.

According to another implementation a method may include receiving a request to initiate a communication with a third party. A plurality of notification options may be provided. A selection of one of the plurality of notification options may be received. A notification may be transmitted to the third party based on at least in part the selected one of the plurality of notification options.

One or more of the following features may be included. The method may also include receiving context information associated with the third party. Providing the plurality of notification options may further include providing the context information associated with the third party. The context information may include one or more of a location and a trajectory information. The context information may include an activity information associated with a communication device associated with the third party.

The plurality of notification options may include one or more predefined dialog options. The one or more predefined dialog options may include a suggested communication modality. The one or more predefined dialog options may include a status request.

The method may also include receiving a reply to the notification from the third party. The method may also include initiating communication with the third party based on at least in part the reply to the notification.

According to another implementation a computer program product includes a computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored on it. When executed by a processor the instructions may cause the processor to perform operations including receiving a request to initiate a communication with a third party. A plurality of notification options may be provided. A selection of one of the plurality of notification options may be received. A notification may be transmitted to the third party based on at least in part the selected one of the plurality of notification options.

According to another implementation a method may include receiving a request to initiate a call via a channel. A call participant set associated with the channel may be identified. A sequence of communications associated with the call may be transmitted. The sequence of communications may include at least a real time media data type and a posted data type. The sequence of communications may be transmitted to the call.

One or more of the following features may be included. Identifying the call participant set associated with the channel may include accessing a predefined channel participant set associated with the channel. Identifying the call participant set associated with the channel may include defining a channel participant set based on at least in part an implicit association of individuals.

Receiving the sequence of communications may include receiving the sequence of communications as real time packetized data transmissions. The real time media data type may include real time audio data. The real time audio data may include voice over IP data. The real time audio data may include a burst audio transmission. The posted media data type may include one or more of video images text web data location data.

Transmitting the sequence of communications to the call may include transmitting the sequence of communications to each member of the call participant set. Transmitting the sequence of communications to each member of the call participant set may include synchronously transmitting the sequence of communications to at least a portion of the call participant set. Transmitting the sequence of communication to each member of the call participant set may include asynchronously transmitting the sequence of communications to at least a portion of the call participant set.

The method may also include recording the sequence of communications associated with the call. Recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may include defining an association between each of the communications of the sequence of communications and the call. Recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may include defining an association between the call and the channel. Recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may include defining an association between each member of the call participant set and the channel. Recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may include defining an access control associated with the call.

According to another implementation a computer program product includes a computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored on it. When executed by a processor the instructions may cause the processor to perform operations including receiving a request to initiate a call via a channel. The instructions may also cause the processor to identify a call participant set associated with the channel. The instructions may also cause the processor to receiver a sequence of communications associated with the call. The sequence of communications may include at least a real time media data type and a posted data type. The instructions may also cause the processor to transmit the sequence of communications to the call.

One or more of the following features may be included. Identifying the call participant set associated with the channel may include accessing a predefined channel participant set associated with the channel. Identifying the call participant set associated with the channel may include defining a channel participant set based on at least in part an implicit association of individuals.

Receiving the sequence of communications may include receiving the sequence of communications as real time packetized data transmissions. The real time media data type may include real time audio data. The real time audio data may include voice over IP data. The real time audio data may include a burst audio transmission. The posted media data type may include one or more of video images text web data location data.

Transmitting the sequence of communications to the call may include transmitting the sequence of communications to each member of the call participant set. Transmitting the sequence of communications to each member of the call participant set may include synchronously transmitting the sequence of communications to at least a portion of the call participant set. Transmitting the sequence of communication to each member of the call participant set may include asynchronously transmitting the sequence of communications to at least a portion of the call participant set.

Instructions may also be included for recording the sequence of communications associated with the call. Recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may include defining an association between each of the communications of the sequence of communications and the call. Recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may include defining an association between the call and the channel. Recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may include defining an association between each member of the call participant set and the channel. Recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may include defining an access control associated with the call.

According to another implementation a computing system includes a processor and a memory coupled with the processor. The processor and memory may be configured to perform operations including receiving a request to initiate a call via a channel. The processor and memory may be configured to identify a call participant set associated with the channel. The processor and memory may also be configured to receive a sequence of communications associated with the call. The sequence of communications may include at least a real time media data type and a posted data type. The processor and memory may further be configured for transmitting the sequence of communications to the call.

One or more of the following features may be included. Identifying the call participant set associated with the channel may include accessing a predefined channel participant set associated with the channel. Identifying the call participant set associated with the channel may include defining a channel participant set based on at least in part an implicit association of individuals.

Receiving the sequence of communications may include receiving the sequence of communications as real time packetized data transmissions. The real time media data type may include real time audio data. The real time audio data may include voice over IP data. The real time audio data may include a burst audio transmission. The posted media data type may include one or more of video images text web data location data.

Transmitting the sequence of communications to the call may include transmitting the sequence of communications to each member of the call participant set. Transmitting the sequence of communications to each member of the call participant set may include synchronously transmitting the sequence of communications to at least a portion of the call participant set. Transmitting the sequence of communication to each member of the call participant set may include asynchronously transmitting the sequence of communications to at least a portion of the call participant set.

The processor and memory may be further configured for recording the sequence of communications associated with the call. Recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may include defining an association between each of the communications of the sequence of communications and the call. Recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may include defining an association between the call and the channel. Recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may include defining an association between each member of the call participant set and the channel. Recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may include defining an access control associated with the call.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium also herein referred to as a computer readable medium and or a storage device associated with a computing device or client electronic device may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any non transitory medium that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages and or in scripting languages such as JavaScript programming language or the Groovy programming language. Furthermore various application programming interfaces APIs and or application development frameworks such as the Dojo or Grails development frameworks may be used in writing the computer program. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Referring to there is shown communication process through which may collectively and or generally be referred to as communication process that may reside on and may be executed by one or more client electronic devices e.g. client electronic devices etc. and or by server computer . The one or more client electronic devices and or server computer may be connected to network e.g. the Internet a local area network a private government network or other network . Examples of client electronic devices may include mobile computing devices e.g. smart phones tablet computing devices data enabled cellular telephones network connected personal digital assistants or the like personal computing devices e.g. notebook computer desk top computers gaming consoles and the like network connected television devices and or set top boxes networked camera devices networked embedded computing devices as well as various additional alternative network connectable computing devices. Examples of server computer may include but are not limited to a personal computer a server computer a series of server computers a mini computer a mainframe computer cloud computing services that may include virtualized instances of server computers and the like.

As will be described in greater detail below communication process may generally provide an integrated communication system that may allow concurrent interactions between small and or large groups of users via multiple data and or media types. Various different types of information ideas and subject matter may be best communicated and shared in different modalities. As such communication process may allow for rich interactions between users through the concurrent exchange sharing and or consumption of audio messages and conversations video content text based information pictures and the like. Communication process may allow multiple different data and media types to be exchanged between users and consumed by the users by providing an integrated user experience.

The instruction sets and subroutines of concept development process which may include one or more software modules and which may be stored on storage device e.g. one or more of storage devices coupled to one or more of client electronic devices and or server computer may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory modules not shown incorporated into client electronic devices and or server computer . Storage devices may include but is not limited to a hard disk drive a solid state drive a tape drive an optical drive a RAID array a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a flash memory device or the like.

Each client electronic devices may execute an appropriate operating system for example Mac OS iOS Android OS Windows or other suitable operating system. Mac OS is a trademark of Apple Inc. in the United States other countries or both iOS is a trademark of Cisco Systems Inc. Android is a trademark of Google Inc. in the United States other countries or both Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United Sates other countries or both. Additionally client electronic devices may allow for various data capture and rendering functionality such as audio capture audio streaming and audio playback video capture video streaming and video playback text input and text display and image capture and image display. Various different client electronic devices may further provide additional alternative functionality including but not limited to sensor functionality including but not limited to location e.g. via GPS data acquisition or the like .

Further while not shown client electronic devices may execute various applications including but not limited to web browser applications e.g. Safari Chrome Internet Explorer Safari is a trademark of Apple Inc. in the United States other countries or both Chrome is a trademark of Google Inc. in the United States other countries or both Internet Explorer is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United Sates other countries or both text messaging applications instant messaging application audio video and or image capture and editing application social networking application e.g. Facebook application LinkedIn application etc. . Various additional alternative applications may similarly be executed by one or more of client devices . Communication process may be a stand alone application and or may be a module and or component of one or more additional applications executed by client electronic devices . Additionally alternatively communication process may interact with one or more applications executed by client electronic devices .

In some embodiments server computer may be an internet connected server or a series of servers running a network operating system examples of which may include but are not limited to Microsoft Windows Server Novell NetWare or Red Hat Linux for example. Microsoft and Windows are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both Novell and NetWare are registered trademarks of Novell Corporation in the United States other countries or both Red Hat is a registered trademark of Red Hat Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States other countries or both. In some embodiments server computer may execute a web server application examples of which may include but are not limited to Microsoft IIS Novell Webserver or Apache HTTP Server Apache Tomcat application server that allows for HTTP i.e. HyperText Transfer Protocol access to server computer via network Webserver is a trademark of Novell Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Apache and Tomcat are registered trademarks of Apache Software Foundation in the United States other countries or both . In some embodiments the server computer be implemented as cloud services such as Amazon Web Services and or Microsoft Windows Azure. Network may be connected to one or more secondary networks e.g. network examples of which may include but are not limited to a local area network a wide area network or an intranet for example.

In some embodiments server computer may execute various applications in addition to communication process . For example server computer may execute data storage systems including but not limited to database systems. Server computer may also execute for example a Voice over IP system and or unified telephony system e.g. which may be provided by the Asterisk open source platform sponsored by Digium Inc. FreeSWITCH open source telephony platform or other suitable communication application and or platform. Various additional and or alternative applications may be executed by server computer .

Consistent with various embodiments communication process may include a client side process executed by one or more of client electronic devices . Further in some embodiments communication process may include a server side process executed by server computer . For example as a server side process one or more users e.g. users may access the server side process e.g. communication process via a web browser or other suitable application e.g. which may include an application that may provide functionality in addition to accessing server side communication process . Additionally in some embodiments communication process may include a hybrid server client process with some of the functionality of communication process executed by one or more of client electronic devices and some of the functionality of communication process executed by server computer . In various hybrid embodiments one or more of client side communication processes may include stand alone communication applications and or may include modules or features of other applications and or may otherwise integrate with and or interact with one or more other applications e.g. which may provide functionality in addition to functionality provided by one or more of communication applications and or .

Users may access communication process via the client electronic device executing communication process e.g. smart phone executing communication process smart phone executing communication process notebook computer executing communication process . Using communication process one or more of users may interact with one another using a variety of data types in a contemporaneous manner allowing for a rich and dynamic exchange of ideas and information between the users.

The various client electronic devices may be directly or indirectly coupled to network or network . For example smart phone is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between smart phone and wireless access point i.e. WAP which is shown directly coupled to network . WAP may be for example an IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g Wi Fi and or Bluetooth device that is capable of establishing wireless communication channel between smart phone and WAP . Smart phone is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between smart phone and cellular network bridge which is shown directly coupled to network . Notebook computer is shown coupled to network e.g. which may further be coupled to network and or server computer via connection via a hardwired connection.

As is known in the art all of the IEEE 802.11x specifications may use Ethernet protocol and carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance i.e. CSMA CA for path sharing. The various 802.11x specifications may use phase shift keying i.e. PSK modulation or complementary code keying i.e. CCK modulation for example. As is known in the art Bluetooth is a telecommunications industry specification that allows e.g. mobile phones computers and personal digital assistants to be interconnected using a short range wireless connection.

One or more example embodiments may be described that may illustrate particular features and or aspects of the disclosure. For the purpose of description reference may be made to communication process executed by smart phone and or in connection with user . It will be understood however that such reference is intended only for the purpose of explanation and should not be construed as a limitation on the present disclosure. Other instantiations of the communication process client electronic devices and or users may be equally utilized.

Referring also to according to one aspect communication process may facilitate user registration or enrollment with an application or system that may utilize authentication and or verification of a user identity. In some embodiments communication process may allow a user to register or enroll with the application using an existing third party application associated with the user for the purpose of authenticating and or verifying the identity of the user without requiring that the user leave navigate away from an enrollment user interface. For example in general communication process may receive a request for authentication of a user. Communication process may generate an authentication communication via a third party application associated with the user. Communication process may further transmit the authentication communication to an authentication system.

For example and referring also to user may wish to enroll or register with third party communication system e.g. that may in some embodiments be provided at least in part by and or in connection with communication process . Communication process alone and or in conjunction with one or more additional applications may provide registration user interface . Registration user interface may for example allow user to register and or otherwise enroll through a third party system provided by communication process . It will be appreciated that the registration and authentication functionality provided by communication process may be implemented in conjunction with applications and or systems with which the user may have already authenticated their identity e.g. which may thereby provide a facile authentication process.

As discussed above communication process may receive a request for authentication of the user. The request for authentication may include a request for authentication associated with a third party application associated with the user i.e. the user may identify how he wishes to be identified for the purpose of authentication . For example user may wish to register as a new user of the communication system. As shown registration user interface may allow user to select a mode of authentication that is to be used for the purpose of registering for the application and for the purpose of authenticating the user and or verifying an identity of the user. For example user may utilize an existing telephone number email address social networking identification or the like for the purpose of authenticating his identity for the communication system.

As shown in an example embodiment registration user interface may include selection options e.g. buttons that may allow user to select a third party application that user wishes to use for authenticating his identity with the system. As shown buttons may identify various third party applications namely email sms and social network that may be utilized for authenticating user . While user interface is shown including three options namely email sms and social network such options are intended for the purpose of illustration and not of limitation as other options e.g. having associated third party applications may equally be utilized including but not limited to other authentication systems messaging systems such as instant messaging systems and the like. In an embodiment in response to user selecting a button e.g. via touch input that may be received by communication process via a touch screen associated with smart phone communication process may receive a request for authentication of the user. The request for authentication of the user may include a request for authentication associated with a third party application e.g. email in the illustrated example associated with user .

Upon receiving the request for authentication of the user e.g. based upon at least in part selection of a third party application associated with the user communication process may generate an authentication communication via the selected third party application associated with the user. In an embodiment communication process may interact with directly and or indirectly the selected third party application associated with the user for the purpose of generating the authentication communication.

Referring also to communication process may generate the authentication communication via the third party application associated with the user e.g. an email application in the foregoing example using an embedded send form for the communication application. Communication process may generate the authentication communication using the embedded send form for example as a pop up window with the registration user interface by issuing a request to launch the communication application associated with the user.

As shown in in some embodiments generating the authentication communication may include pre populating a communication content including a destination address and an authentication code. For example communication process may pre populate one or more fields of the communication within send form . In the illustrated example communication process may pre populate to field and subject field of send form . In various embodiments to field may be pre addressed for example with an email address or SMS phone number associated with an address associated with an authentication system associated with communication process . For example using the pre addressed to field the third party communications service associated with the third party communication application may transmit e.g. and ultimately deliver the message to communication process .

In various embodiments from field may be populated based upon one or more account settings of the communication application i.e. email application in the example embodiment associated with the user. In some embodiments the selected third party application associated with the user may include more than one user account. For example an email application associated with smart phone may include more than one email account that may be accessed via the email application. According to an example embodiments the from field may be pre populated e.g. by an operating system or the email application etc. based on a default account e.g. that may be defined in one or more preferences associated with smart phone and or the email application executed by smart phone . In such an embodiment communication application may generate an authentication communication via the selected third party application based on the identified default account e.g. the from field may be pre populated based on default account information e.g. from a device operating system or the like . In some embodiments communication process may allow user to select a desired account for the purpose of generating the authentication communication. While not shown in some embodiments user may for example select the pre populated from field which may result in communication process alone and or in conjunction with the email application or other third party application rendering various user interfaces e.g. popup menus or the like that may allow user to select a desired account for authentication.

Further communication process may pre populate body of the communication included within send form . In some embodiments pre populating body may include generating an authentication code e.g. which may be used by an authentication system for authenticating user . In some embodiments pre populating the subject field may include generating such authentication code. Consistent with the foregoing example communication process may generate the authentication communication including the necessary information for authenticating user with the communication system or other system with which user may register based upon user selecting the communication application via which authentication is desired. Further it may not be necessary for user to navigate away from user interface provided by communication process . Accordingly in some embodiments a registration and or authentication process for registering for an application and or system may be simplified and may be more user friendly. 

Communication process may further transmit the authentication communication to an authentication system. For example in connection with the generated authentication communication e.g. which may be included within send form communication process may allow the user e.g. user in the above described embodiment to affirm his intent to register e.g. by selecting register now button . In response to user selecting register now button communication process may instruct the mutually trusted third party communication system to itself transmit and attempt to deliver the authentication communication. Pre addressing of the to field i.e. pre populating to field may cause the message to ultimately be delivered e.g. through a network connected server into communication process . Upon receipt of this message authentication code may be used to verify and correlate this received authentication message. Accordingly in response to receipt of the message and correlation of the received authentication code included within the message communication process e.g. communication process executed by server computer may authenticate the user. As is known in the art the authentication system e.g. which may include communication process and or another authentication system and or process may then utilize a variety of standard techniques that may verify that the incoming communication e.g. generated at least in part by communication process is authentic and is not a spoofed communication and or address.

In some embodiments generating the authentication communication may include receiving a user credential associated with a third party application. For example while not shown in some embodiments a user may wish to use a third party authentication application for the purpose of registration and or authentication. For example the user may wish to use the authentication system associated with a third party social networking system for the purpose of registration and or authentication. In such an embodiment communication process may prompt the user for one of a set of third party authentication systems that the user wishes to use for registration and or authentication which may then require the user to enter login credentials e.g. username and password associated with that social networking system. Communication process may call upon the social networking system e.g. by transmitting an authentication request to the social networking system which would itself receive the user credentials e.g. which may be input via an appropriate user interface and may provide authentication based on the successful authentication with that third party system.

According to some embodiments a communication system and method consistent with the present disclosure may provide a platform that may enable rich and multi faceted interaction between by way of multiparty communications systems and polysynchronous communications systems that may seamlessly integrate and facilitate real time and asynchronous modalities. The interaction may be about more than just voice or images but rather may include an integration of many data types and modalities that may provide a user experience that may be about sharing and observing in a manner that may leverage all the various capacities and functionalities of modern computing devices such as smart phones and the like. The different data types and modalities may be utilized across different contexts to provide highly meaningful and interactive experiences.

In an aspect of the present disclosure a communication system may provide a signaling functionality and features that may decrease the transaction costs associated with individuals connecting with one another. As used herein signaling may generally encompass interactions that may occur as a precursor to the actual substance of a communication. In some embodiments signaling may include interactions and activities by which a communication may be initiated and or established between individuals. According to an implementation communication process may receive a request from a user i.e. a caller to initiate a communication with a third party i.e. one or more callees . Communication process may provide a plurality of notification options. Communication process may receive a selection of one of the plurality of notification options. Communication process may further transmit a notification to the third party based on at least in part the selected one of the plurality of notification options.

For example in an embodiment communication process may receive a request to initiate a communication. In some embodiments the request by the caller to initiate a communication with one or more callees may include at least at one level an identification of the individual or individuals with whom the caller may wish to communicate and an indication that the caller may wish to initiate the communication. For example and referring to according to some embodiments a communication process e.g. communication process associated executed by smart phone associated with user alone and or in conjunction with one or more additional applications may provide contacts list user interfaced . Contacts list user interface may include a listing of one or more individuals who may utilize e.g. may be registered with a cooperating communication system. In such an embodiment communication process may receive the request to initiate a communication in response to the caller e.g. user selecting an individual e.g. user who may therefore be a callee from within contacts list user interface . In various embodiments user may simply select e.g. via a touch screen interface or other suitable selecting device the individual with whom user as the caller wishes to initiate a communication.

According to various additional alternative embodiments communication process may interact with one or more additional applications and or utilize one or more additional alternative interfaces through which communication process may receive the request to initiate a communication. For example in an embodiment communication process may interact with a calendaring application executed by a computing device executing communication process e.g. a calendaring application executed by smart phone which may execute communication application . In an embodiment the caller e.g. user may select an individual who may be listed as an invitee of a meeting included within the calendaring application. In response to a suitable user input e.g. a touch and swipe input or long touch input or other suitable user input communication process may alone and or in conjunction with the calendaring application render a menu option to initiate a communication with the selected individual. Upon user selecting the menu option to initiate a communication with the selected individual communication process may receive a request to initiate a communication with the selected individual. Communication process may receive a request to initiate a communication with a selected individual in a similar manner in response to user interactions with various additional and or alternative applications such as social networking applications email applications mapping application e.g. which may include an indication of a location of various individuals or other suitable applications.

In some embodiments in response to receiving a request to initiate a communication with an individual communication process may receive context information associated with the individual with whom the user has indicated an intent to communicate. In some embodiments communication process may receive the context information in response to e.g. contacts list user interface or another interface from which a callee may be selected being invoked. That is in an embodiment communication process may receive context information associated with one or more callees and or potential callees based on an interface from which a callee may be selected being invoked. According to various embodiments the context information may provide to various degrees status awareness information and or cues regarding the callee i.e. the individual with whom a desire to communication has been received . For example the context information may include information that may provide indicators and or cues as to the individual s availability status and likely capacity and or willingness to participate in a communication and or a format of communication in which the individual may be capable of participating. These contextual cues may be set explicitly by the callee e.g. in a communication application associated executed by a client device associated with the callee and or may be automatically derived by the communication application from the client device s operating system the client device s hardware sensors and or application programs services etc. associated with the client device associated with the callee. The contextual cues may include a callee s general or specific current or recent location direction and velocity or that of their communication device.

For example context information may include one or more of a location of the individual i.e. the callee and a trajectory information associated with the individual e.g. as may be provided by a GPS receiver compass and accelerometer associated with a device associated with the individual e.g. smart phone associated with user proximity to a cellular transceiver or WiFi access point etc. Location information may include absolute and or relative location information e.g. the individual is at their home the individual is close to you etc. . Similarly the trajectory information may indicate for example movement of the individual and information such as specific or general speed and direction of movement. Location and or trajectory context information may indicate for example that the individual is currently traveling at driving speeds in a generally northeast direction etc. The context of the individual currently traveling at driving speeds may be leveraged for example relative to a data type that may be used for communication with the individual. For example text based communication may not be a desirable communication format for an individual who may be driving etc.

In some embodiments the context information may include sensor information associated with a client device associated with the third party callee e.g. smart phone associated with user . For example the sensor information may indicate that the device has been in darkness plugged in and in a motionless state e.g. based on accelerometers or other sensors associated with the device for the last seven hours. In combination with additional information such as time of day information etc. the activity information may provide context information suggesting that the individual may not be using the communication device may be asleep etc.

In some embodiments context information may be received based on information associated with other applications of the individual. For example a telephone application associated with the individual e.g. telephone functionality associated with smart phone utilized by user may provide context information such as the individual currently engaged in using the device s microphone and speaker in a PSTN call. A meeting scheduled in a calendaring application associated with the individual may provide context information such as the individual currently be engaged in a meeting e.g. and may also provide context information regarding the meeting such as the meeting being a teleconference and or webconference etc. . Various additional and or alternative applications associate with the individual may also provide context information associated with the individual.

In various embodiments the context information may be processed and or understood in an integrated manner. For example rather than existing as individual and separate information the various context information may be interpreted together to provide richer context associated with the individual. For example context information indicating that the individual is traveling at driving speeds is engaged in a phone conversation and is currently scheduled to be in a meeting may be interpreted as the individual being engaged in a teleconference while traveling in a vehicle. Such context information may allow the user wishing to initiate a communication with the individual to evaluate if the individual should be interrupted with a communication e.g. the user may evaluate the urgency of the communication and or how the individual should be interrupted with the communication.

According to various embodiments the context information may be received in a format and or way that may be sensitive to the privacy of the individual with whom the context information is associated. For example the context information may be received having a level of granularity or specificity that may be privacy sensitive. For example location and or trajectory information may indicate that the individual is traveling at driving speeds rather than identifying the exact speed and location of the individual. Various other types of context information may be received in a privacy sensitive format.

Accordingly to various embodiments the privacy sensitivity of the context information may vary for example based on system wide and or individual user level settings. For example a user may establish varying levels of privacy sensitivity associated with various other users. For example an individual may desire a high degree of privacy in their context information that may be received by casual acquaintances. However the same individual may desire a lower degree of privacy in their context information that may be received by intimately close friends and family. Accordingly in some embodiments the individual may set privacy settings associated with context information and with users that may receive the context information. In some embodiments a default high level of privacy sensitivity may be associated with context information. The default privacy sensitivity may be altered by the individual for various individual and or groups of users. Various additional and or alternative mechanisms for managing privacy sensitivity associated with context information may similarly be implemented.

In an embodiment communication process may receive the context information directly from a device associated with the individual e.g. smart phone associated with user etc. . In some embodiments communication process may receive the context information regarding the individual in response to a request for context information transmitted by communication process to the device associated with the individual. In some embodiments a device associated with an individual may intermittently transmit context information to a server e.g. server which may maintain the context information. For example the device associated with the individual may intermittently e.g. a predefined intervals transmit context information to server computer . In some embodiments the device associated with the individual may for example transmit context information to server computer in response to a change in the context associated with the individual e.g. a change in motion state the indication of a present meeting in a calendaring application associated with the individual etc. . Consistent with such an embodiment communication process may receive the context information from server . In some embodiments e.g. in which energy conservation may be desirable devices may not transmit context information to communication process until communication process indicates e.g. in real time and or near real time that such information is actually required. For example communication process may received the callee context in response to communication process receiving a request to initiate a communications with that specific callee. Various additional alternative implementations may similarly be implemented.

Communication process may provide a plurality of callee notification options. In some embodiments the plurality of notification options may for example give the caller the option of silently or quietly alerting the callee e.g. by selecting alert button from within contacts list user interface or alternatively giving the caller the option to loudly ring the callee s phone or play a specific ringtone e.g. by selecting ring button from within contacts list user interface . In some embodiments providing the plurality of communication options may include providing context information associated with the callee i.e. the third party or individual with whom the user wishes to communicate . Communication process may provide the context information associated with the individual according to various suitable manners. For example in some embodiments communication process may provide context information associated with one or more callees and or potential callees herein collectively referred to as callees in the form of one or more icons e.g. driving icon and or walking icon associated with respective callees in contacts list user interface . In other examples communication process may simply display the context information e.g. user is traveling at driving speeds on a display associated with smart phone and or announcing the information e.g. via a text to speech engine etc. Further various types of context information may be otherwise provided . For example location context information may be provided via a map display interface. For example in the example embodiment in which user e.g. the individual with whom user wishes to initiate a communication is traveling at driving speeds communication process alone and or in conjunction with another application such as a mapping application may render a map showing a current and or recent location of user and may further indicate that user is driving. Various additional and or alternative mechanisms for providing the context information may similarly be utilized. As discussed above in some embodiments communication process may provide the context information prior to providing the plurality of notification options.

According to an embodiment the plurality of notification options may include one or more predefined or customized dialog options enabling a lightweight pre call dialog to be carried out between the caller and callee. For example the dialog options may include basic exchanges e.g. that may be used to determine if the individual is available to engage with the caller e.g. a status request and or to determine if the individual has a preferred communication modality or format e.g. based on a context or situation of the individual. For example communication process may provide the plurality of notification options including the one or more dialog options as caller selectable items. For example as shown in communication process may provide join me in this call button . In response to the caller selecting button communication process alone and or in conjunction with another application may generate dialog user interface shown in . Dialog user interface may include one or more predefined dialog options that may be for example selectable options e.g. just saying hi option you available option and need to talk now option within dialog user interface . While dialog menu is shown including three dialog options this is intended only of illustrative purposes and the number and nature of the dialog options may vary depending upon design criteria and user need. Additionally dialog user interface may include input field e.g. which may allow user to input a free form dialog. Further in some embodiments the dialog options included within dialog menu may be customized e.g. by the user by an application developer a system administrator or other individual. Further while is shown including only a single dialog menu more than one dialog menu may be included. In some embodiments various dialog menus may be included having dialog options relating to various signaling aspects e.g. status and or availability of the individual preferred communication modality importance etc. 

Communication process may receive a selection of one of the plurality of communication options. For example the caller e.g. user may select one or more of the notification options e.g. one or more of the dialog options included within dialog user interface e.g. using a touch selection gesture or other suitable selection mechanism. Further communication process may transmit a notification to the third party i.e. the callee or individual with whom the user wishes to communicate based on at least in part the selected one of the plurality of notification options.

Communication process may further receive a reply to the notification from the third party. For example in response to user selecting a dialog option e.g. you available from within dialog user interface communication process e.g. communication process and or communication process may transmit the notification to the callee e.g. user . Referring to the notification may be received by a device associated with the callee e.g. smart phone associated with user . The dialog option may be displayed e.g. in user interface on the device associated with the individual e.g. smart phone for example by a corresponding communication process e.g. communication process executed by smart phone and or another suitable application. In an embodiment user interface may include one or more response dialog options which may include one or more selectable response options e.g. can t talk now give me a minute I ll call you right back and text me . User may select an appropriate response from within response user interface e.g. by touching the desired response etc. While response user interface has been shown including four options the number and nature of the options included within response user interface is intended only for the purpose of illustration. The number and nature of responses included within the response menu may vary according to design criteria and or user need and may additionally alternatively be customizable e.g. by the user by a system administrator by an application developer or by another individual . Further in some embodiments the individual may be enabled to enter a free form response e.g. via input field and or otherwise responds to the dialog option received from the user.

In response to the callee e.g. user selecting and or otherwise entering a reply to the dialog option transmitted by communication process as part of the notification communication process may receive the reply from the individual. For example as shown in user may have selected the reply option text me from within reply user interface . Accordingly user interface e.g. which may be rendered on smart phone at least in part by communication process may display the received reply from the individual.

Communication process may initiate the communication with the individual. For example user may select the reply from the individual e.g. user in the present example and or may select an initiation option e.g. alert button and or ring button . In response to user selecting the reply and or an initiation option within user interface e.g. via a touch selection input etc. communication process may initiate the communication. In the illustrated embodiment in which the reply indicated that the individual desired a text based communication communication process may initiate the communication with user with the user interface defaults configured to favor text based communication at least as an initial communication modality. Of course other embodiments may include communications of different modalities e.g. based on at least in part a response to the third party user preference or the like.

While the foregoing example has included only a single dialog exchange from the user to the individual with whom the user wishes to communicate and a single reply back from the individual the example exchange is only intended for the purpose of illustration and not of limitation. In various embodiments multiple back and forth dialog exchanges may occur prior to initiation of the communication. Further and as generally presented one or more subsequent sets of dialog and or responses may be based at least in part by a previous dialog and or response. For example response dialogs may be based on at least in part the received dialogs such that the response dialog options may be appropriate for responding to the received dialog.

As generally discussed above according to some aspects the communication process herein may provide a platform or system for enabling communications between people. In general the communication process may in some embodiments provide a single application that may allow for integrated and contemporaneous exchanges of a wide variety of data types and or media types in a single call. As used herein a call may generally refer to sequence of interactions that may be linked together by a generally common time wise attribute e.g. with the interactions being temporally ordered and related that the interactions may constitute a single conversation or related group of interactions. Further the sequence of interactions that make up a call may be generally related in terms of the participants in the call. For example while a portion of the participants may change during the course of the call e.g. by virtue of participants joining and or leaving the call the call may include a participant attribute. That is the call may be identified at least in part based on who is participating in the call. Accordingly the participants may be an attribute of the call. In some embodiments the communication process herein may provide an application and or system that may provide a real time media channel between a set of call participants that may allow simultaneous use of and seamless transitions between multiple different data types and or media types during course of a single call.

Referring also to in an embodiment communication process may receive a request to initiate a call via a channel. Communication process may also identify a call participant set associated with the channel. Communication process may receive a sequence of communications associated with the call. The sequence of communications may include real time media data types e.g. synchronous data types and asynchronously posted data types. Further communication process may transmit the sequence of communications into the call.

Communication process may receive a request to initiate a call via a channel and may identify a call participant set associated with the channel. Consistent with the present disclosure in general a call may include set of interactions between members of a communication system facilitated by communication process . The set of interactions that give rise to the call may include the call being initiated in the context of a channel. A channel may include a set of one or more calls having a common default participant set who may be automatically offered participation in every call initiated within the channel. Accordingly the participant set of members participating in the interactions may be an attribute of the call. Communication process may identify default call participant set as including a participant set associated with a channel. That is by default the call participant set may include the channel participant set. In some embodiments and as discussed in greater detail below the channel participant set may be modified for the purpose of a given call either by adding or removing individuals from the call. The call participant set may include the individuals that may actually participant in the call.

In an example embodiment communication process may receive the request to initiate a call in response to an input from a user e.g. user operating smart phone . The input from user may include for example a selection of a channel from within a contacts list associated with communication process e.g. a contacts list that communication process executed on smart phone may interact with either locally or via a network such as network . In some embodiments the channel may be implicitly selected by virtue of which channel within which the call is being initiated and by extension the list of members of or subscribers to that channel. For example the communication process may allow a channel s membership to be configured manually by users or may be configured to automatically synchronize with sets of individuals that may be managed externally such as a Facebook group participants in a common meeting e.g. which may be managed via a calendaring application or the like individuals with access privileges to an online workspace or folder or the like.

Identifying the call participant set associated with the channel may include not only identifying individuals who may be invited to the call but further identifying the call participant set associated with an existing channel. As generally described above in an embodiment identifying the call participant set associated with the channel may include accessing a predefined channel participant set associated with the channel. A predefined channel participant set associated with the channel may include for example a list of individuals that may be associated with a past call or a pre existing channel e.g. a channel that may have been utilized for one or more calls between the defined group of individuals in the past . Accordingly in such an embodiment communication process may identify the call participant set by accessing a participant set associated with pre existing channels and previous calls. That is the channel participant set may at least in part form the basis of the call participant set e.g. subject to any modification such as additions and or deletions of individuals from the channel participant set for the purpose of the call.

In another embodiment accessing a predefined channel participant set associated with the channel may include accessing a contacts list accessible by and or integrated with communication process . For example in an embodiment a user e.g. user may define a contacts list associated with communication process . The contacts list associated with the communication process may include an indication of one or more channels associated with user in which each of the one or more channels may include one or more than one participants in the channel. For example each individual contact in the contacts list may give rise to a pair wise channel e.g. a channel participant set including user and the individual listed in the contact . Similarly each contact group listed in the contacts list which may include more than one individual may give rise to a group wise channel e.g. a channel participant set including user and that set of individuals . In response to receiving the request to initiate a call via the channel communication process may further identify a call participant set e.g. the intended participants for the call associated with the channel which may include accessing the predefined channel participant set associated with the channel e.g. that is defined in a contacts list. Channels including a predefined participant set may include explicit channels.

In an embodiment identifying the call participant set associated with the channel may include defining the channel based on at least in part an implicit association of individuals. For example and as also generally discussed above a channel may be associated with an implicit group of individuals which may include for example a group of individuals whose association with one another may be implied by a common interaction or point of intersection. For example the group of individuals may be members of a common social networking group e.g. a Facebook group or other similar group . In another example the group of individuals may be indicated as being attendees and or invitees to a meeting or activity that may be scheduled using a calendaring system or application. Similar implicit associations of individuals may be based on for example individuals having access privileges to a shared online space or folder. Accordingly communication process may identify a default participant set for a call including defining the channel based on an implicit association of the individuals. Consistent with such an embodiment communication process may receive the request to initiate the call via the channel based on a user input associated with the point of intersection of the implicitly associated individuals e.g. by selecting a social networking group a calendar event etc. . In a similar manner as discussed above and as will be described in greater detail below the call participant set may be based on a modified channel participant set e.g. by way of the addition of individuals to the channel participant set or the removal of individuals from the channel participant set.

According to various embodiments call participation may be extended and or restricted. For example communication process may allow a channel having a defined either implicitly or explicitly participant set to be extended to include one or more additional participants for the purpose of the call. The extension of the call participant set may be temporary e.g. for the purpose of a single call and or a portion of a single call . In some embodiments the extension of the call participant set may be permanent e.g. may be for the purpose of all calls associated with the channel and may thereby explicitly modify the underlying channel participant set . In some embodiments a permanent extension of a channel participant set may give rise to a new channel which may include the extended participant set. In a generally corresponding manner communication process may allow a channel having a defined either implicitly or explicitly participant set to be restricted by removing one or more than one participant from the participant set for the purpose of a call thereby giving rise to a call participant set that is a subset of the channel participant set. The restriction of a member from the participant set associated with a call may be temporary e.g. for the purpose of a single call and or may be permanent thereby modifying the underlying channel participant set. In some embodiments the permanent restriction of a participant set associated with a channel may give rise to the creation of a new channel e.g. as opposed to simply modifying the pre existing channel including the restricted participant set while maintaining the original channel having the original participant set.

According to various embodiments suitable user interfaces may be used in connection with the request to initiate the call. For example in response to a long touch or multi tap user selection of a contact and or contact group within a contacts list or a point of intersection of implicitly associated individuals communication process may alone and or in conjunction with one or more additional applications render a user interface such as a menu or the like. The user interface rendered by communication process may provide options for the user e.g. user in the foregoing example to request that a call be initiated.

Initiating the call may include for example signaling the members of the call participant set to thereby alert the members of the intent of the member to conduct a call via the channel. Signaling may include conventional notification arrangements including transmitting a notification to one or more devices associated with the members of the call participant set. Additionally alternatively advanced signaling as generally described herein may also be implemented. An example of such signaling may utilize pre call dialogs e.g. which may ascertain availability and preferred call modality. Other signaling associated with the initiation of a call may similarly be utilized.

Communication process may receive a sequence of communications associated with the call. The sequence of communications may include at least a real time media data type and an asynchronous posted data type. For example and as generally discussed above according to an aspect communication process may allow communications including multiple different data types and or including multiple different media types. In an embodiment receiving the sequence of communications may include receiving the sequence of communications as real time packetized data transmissions.

According to various embodiments real time media data may include data transmitted and consumed in real time as well as streaming media data types e.g. including real time streaming data that may or may not be consumed in real time. As used herein the term real time may generally media data in which transmitted data may be received and by one or more call participants generally contemporaneously with the transmission of the data. In an embodiment the real time media data type may include real time audio data such as voice data and or may include real time data such as video data. In one example the real time audio data may include voice over IP data and or the real time video data may include video over IP data although other forms of real time audio data may be similarly utilized. Consistent with such an aspect at least a portion of the sequence of communications included within the call may include voice communications. The voice communications may include real time voice communications e.g. which may be similar to voice communications in standard telephone or Voice over IP call. In an embodiment switching and routing of voice communications associated with the call may facilitated by a PBX Voice over IP or unified telephony system e.g. which may interact with communication application e.g. communication application executed by server computer . In an embodiment the PBX Voice over IP or unified telephony system may be interconnected with the public switched telephone network.

In an embodiment the real time audio data may include continuously streaming voice data. In some embodiments continuously streaming voice data may be implemented in a symmetrical manner e.g. in which all members included in the call participant set may generate and consume continuously streaming voice data to and or other members included in the call participant set. In some embodiments the real time audio data may include burst audio transmissions such as burst voice transmissions. For example and referring also to communication process may provide talk button e.g. which may include a virtual button in user interface provided via a touch screen interface. In response to a user activating talk button communication process may receive voice data e.g. any audio data that may be received via a microphone associated with the computing device . Upon the release of talk button communication process may stop receiving the voice data. In an embodiment communication process may allow a user to transition between providing burst voice data and providing continuous voice data. For example and as described in response to a user pressing talk button communication process may receive burst voice data for as long as talk button is activated. In an embodiment communication process may allow a user to transition to providing continuous voice data. For example a user may activate talk button by pressing the virtual button. The user may then invoke a lock gesture e.g. laterally sliding talk button or other suitable gesture . In response to the user invoking the lock gesture communication process may receive continuous voice data.

In addition to synchronous and real time near real time and or streaming audio data such as voice data and or video data communication process may receive various types of synchronously streamed and asynchronously posted media data types. Media data types received by communication process may be transmitted synchronously and or asynchronously. Further a media data type may be received and transmitted as a defined piece of content e.g. which may be consumed once the media data has been posted or may be consumed and processed synchronously in real time while the media is being transferred. In an embodiment the posted media data type may include one or more of video data e.g. video clips images text web data location data or the like.

While example data types and media types have been described above it should be appreciated that such examples are intended only for the purpose of illustration and not of limitation. Various additional and or alternative data types and media types may also be utilized. Examples of data that may be included as part of a communication associated with a call may include data derived from sensors of functionality provided by the computing device such as location traveled routes velocity direction and the like which may be provided form e.g. navigation or mapping applications and GPS or other functionality provided by the computing device. Microphone and camera functionality associated with the computing device may be used to generate real time audio e.g. voice and or video data as well as audio clips video clips photos and the like. Input devices such as touch screen interfaces may be utilized to generate stylus or finger sketches. Web browser applications may be utilized for the generation and or capture of web content web links etc. Text data documents and the like may be generated via the computing device and or accessed and or implemented in a communication via input and or storage functionality associated with the computing device. Accordingly in various embodiments the communicated synchronous and asynchronous data types may include one or more of video still or animated images text web links location and route data gestures sketches files and folders and documents voice and music and audio software code and scripts QR and NFC and bar codes quality of service data such including signal strength and latency and performance sensor and other such data obtained from the device from its operating system from add ons or applications or internet services and from device peripherals that may be connected through wired or wireless means. While the foregoing discussion has provided many examples of data that may be received and transmitted as communication within a call the list is not intended to be exhaustive as other data types and or media types may also be utilized.

Communication process may transmit the sequence of communications to the call. For example communication process transmit the received communications to all of the members of the call participant set. In some embodiments one or more members of the call participant set may not be engaged in the call e.g. may not have joined the call . In an embodiment transmitting the sequence of communications to each member of the call participant set may include synchronously transmitting the sequence of communications to at least a portion of the call participant set. In an embodiment the portion of the call participant set to whom the sequence of communications are synchronously transmitted may include members of the call participant set that may be engaged in the call. Synchronously transmitting the sequence of communications may include transmitting the sequence of communications to the portion of the call participant set in real time or near real time.

In some embodiments at least a portion of the call participant set may not be engaged in the call and or may experience poor data connectivity e.g. which may impede real time participant in the call. In such a situation transmitting the sequence of communications to each member of the call participant set may include asynchronously transmitting the sequence of communications to at least a portion of the call participant set. Asynchronously transmitting the sequence of communications may include for example posting the sequence of communications for later retrieval by one or more members of the call participant set and or for retrieval on an as available basis e.g. which may be dictated at least in part by a data connectivity associated with the one or more members of the participant set.

Various suitable user interfaces may be implemented for receiving and interacting with the various individual communications associated with the call. In some embodiments different user interface may be implemented e.g. which may be amenable to particular data types of particular communications. According to some embodiments multiple user interfaces may be concurrently accessible e.g. which may permit different data types to be generated and or interacted with. For example a view finder user interface may be implemented in connection with the capture of image or video data e.g. via camera functionality associated with the computing device while a web browser user interface may be implemented in connection with the capture of web links or data included within a website. Communication process may receive the data captured via the various suitable user interfaces. In a similar manner various user interfaces may be utilized in connection with the consumption of communications transmitted by communication process . User interfaces implemented in connection with communication process may not only allow for the capture of communication and the consumption of communications from other users but may also allow for interactions with the communications such as manipulation forwarding and transforming the communications. In some embodiments the various user interfaces may be accessed be scrolling e.g. based on a swipe input gesture via a touch screen interface or the like laterally or vertically between different user interface screens or panes. It will be appreciated that various additional and or alternative user interface may be similarly implemented in connection with a call including a sequence of communications that may include multiple different data types and or multiple different media types.

In an embodiment communication process may record the sequence of communications associated with the call. For example recording the call may include storing the interactions in a suitable data store e.g. which may be associated with server computer and or with another computing device. In an embodiment the recorded sequence of communication associated with the call may be accessible e.g. to one or more the individuals included in the participant set associated with the channel. In an embodiment recorded calls may be accessed for example via a web browser and or using a custom application.

In an embodiment recording the call may include the use of tags and meta data associated with the sequence of communications. For example recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may include defining an association between each of the communications of the sequence of communications and the call. For example communication process may define a tag associated with each of the communications of the sequence of communication in the call. The defined tag may identify each of the communications e.g. individually and or collectively as being associated with the call. Accordingly the record of the call may be based upon at least in part the communications tagged as belonging to a specific call. In an embodiment each communication may further include a sequence tag and or a time stamp that may for example indicate a chronological position of the communication within the call.

In an embodiment recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may also include defining an association between the call and the channel. For example the association between the call and the channel may include a tag associated with each call and or associated with each communication tagged as being associated with a given call that may identify the call and or each communication tagged as being associated with the call as being associated with a given channel. As such communication process may tag each call as being associated with a particular channel.

Further in an example embodiment recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may include defining an association between each member of the call participant set and the channel. For example communication process may include a list of all members of the communication system. Communication process may define an association between each member who is included within the participant set of a channel and the channel itself. For example communication process may define a tag associated with each member of the communication system facilitated by communication process in which the tag may identify a channel for which the member is included within the participant set of the channel. In a situation in which a member of the communication system may be included in the participant set of more than one channel the communication process may define a tag associated with a member for each channel that the member is included in the participant set.

In an embodiment calls within a channel and or communications within a call may be presented in a timeline manner. For example via a user interface associated with a member of a communication system facilitated by communication process communication process may allow the member to identified one or more channels that the member is tagged as being associated with. Further the individual channels may include a chronological representation of calls associated with each channel. In an embodiment a selection of a call associated with a channel may give rise to a user interface including a chronological representation of the communications tagged as being associated with the call. In an embodiment the representation of the communication tagged as being associated with the call may include the communication itself e.g. for graphical communications such as text pictures or the like and or a representation of the communication that may be selected to consume the communication e.g. to playback an audio recording or video recording etc. . Various additional and or alternative arrangements for presenting and or accessing calls and or communications may similarly be implemented.

In some embodiments the content of calls may decay over time. For example by default and or by user preference the content of calls e.g. the individual communications making up the call may expire after a defined period of time after which the content may no longer be available. In an example embodiment the decay of content of calls may include a progressive decrease in a resolution or quality of the content. For example over time e.g. based on defaults and or user preference the quality and or resolution of communications may decrease. An example of a decreasing quality and or resolution may include a decrease in image resolution associated with an image a decrease in bit rate associated with an audio component or the like. In an embodiment users may explicitly select that certain calls be indefinitely retained so that they do not decay or degrade or be made inaccessible.

In an embodiment communication process may allow a call and or one or more communications associated with a call e.g. a portion of a call to be published. For example publishing a call and or a portion of a call may include exporting e.g. saving the contents copying the contents etc. the call and or the portion of a call to a location outside of the communication system facilitated by communication process . In some embodiments publishing a call and or a portion of a call may include allowing links to be established to the call and or a portion of a call. For example a link to a call and or a portion of a call may allow the call and or a portion of the call to be accessed from a location external to the communication system facilitated by communication process . For example in an embodiment a call via a channel including an implicit association of individuals having a point of intersection that may include a social networking group may be published to the social networking group e.g. via the social networking website.

In an embodiment recording the sequence of communications associated with the call may include defining an access control associated with the call. For example communication process may allow one or more than one member included in the participant set of the call to implement an access control e.g. which may restrict publication and or dissemination of communication associated with the call. In some embodiments one or more default access controls may be associated with

Additionally while various embodiments and features have been described herein it will be apparent to one having skill in the art that the various embodiments and features may be susceptible to combination with one another and or to various additional alternative combinations. All such combination of subject matter disclosed herein is intended to be contemplated by the present disclosure.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Having thus described the invention of the present application in detail and by reference to embodiments thereof it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of the invention defined in the appended claims.

