---

title: Method for designing and making a plural-layer composite armor system
abstract: The present invention's stratified composite system of armor, as typically embodied, comprises a backing stratum and a strike stratum that includes elastomeric matrix material and low-density ceramic elements embedded therein and arranged (e.g., in one or more rows and one or more columns) along a geometric plane (or plural parallel geometric planes) corresponding to the front surface of the strike stratum. Some inventive embodiments also comprise a spall-containment stratum fronting the strike stratum. The density of the low-density ceramic material is in the approximate range 2.0-3.0 g/cm. In the strike stratum, the volume ratio of the low-density ceramic material to the elastomeric matrix material is in the approximate range 4-20. The present invention's emulative method for designing an inventive armor system typically involves configurative change of the inventive armor system's low-density ceramic material vis-à-vis another armor system's high-density ceramic material so that the respective ceramic material areal densities are equal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08226873&OS=08226873&RS=08226873
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08226873
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120131
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 973 999 filing date 5 Oct. 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 105 510 B1 issue date 31 Jan. 2012 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Method for Making Ballistic Armor Using Low Density Ceramic Material joint inventors Curtis A. Martin David E. Johnson David P. Owen Rodney O. Perterson and Philip J. Dudt.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to armor methodologies that implement ceramic material more particularly to armor methodologies that implement discrete ceramic elements in combination with non ceramic material.

Current military armor applications include land vehicles air vehicles e.g. aircraft and rotorcraft stationary structures and personnel. Other applications of armor systems are less common but may become more prevalent in the future including marine vehicles e.g. ships unmanned air vehicles unmanned marine vehicles and missiles. Generally the weight of an armor system is most critical for personnel personal e.g. helmet or body armor.

Various armor constructions and configurations have been disclosed involving utilization of ceramic material. Shih et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 532 857 B1 issued 18 Mar. 2003 entitled Ceramic Array Armor incorporated herein by reference disclose an armor system that includes an elastomeric matrix material and encapsulated therein plural ceramic tiles arrayed along a common surface and spaced apart from one another. See also the following U.S. patents each of which is incorporated herein by reference deWitt U.S. Pat. No. 7 067 031 B2 issued 27 Jun. 2006 entitled Process for Making A Ceramic Armor Plate Cohen U.S. Pat. No. 6 860 186 B2 issued 1 Mar. 2005 entitled Ceramic Bodies and Ballistic Armor Incorporating the Same Mohr et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 792 843 B2 issued 21 Sep. 2004 entitled Armor Plating Composite Ghiorse et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 601 497 B2 issued 5 Aug. 2003 entitled Armor with In Plane Confinement of Ceramic Tiles Lyons U.S. Pat. No. 6 332 390 B1 issued 25 Dec. 2001 entitled Ceramic Tile Armor with Enhanced Joint and Edge Protection Lyons et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 253 655 B1 issued 3 Jul. 2001 entitled Lightweight Armor with a Durable Spall Cover Lyons U.S. Pat. No. 6 009 789 issued 4 Jan. 2000 entitled Ceramic Tile Armor with Enhanced Joint and Edge Protection. 

Certain ceramic materials are known in the art to be suitable for use in armor applications. These conventional armor ceramics which include aluminum oxide commonly called alumina silicon carbide boron carbide and titanium carbide have been developed over the last thirty years or so and represent the current state of the art. These conventional pure ceramic materials have been relied upon in conventional practice of armor systems for instance for protection against impact by a projectile such as a ballistic body e.g. small arms fire or an explosive fragment e.g. shrapnel from a bomb blast .

Although conventional ceramic armor materials often perform satisfactorily they and therefore armor systems implementing them tend to be expensive to produce. The need exists in the armor related arts for materials and systems affording lower production costs and higher production capacities.

In view of the foregoing it is an object of the present invention to provide a new armor system that affords lower cost but equivalent performance as compared with conventional armor systems.

The present invention provides a unique methodology for implementing low density ceramic material in armor applications. The desirability of using low density ceramic material is associated with the desirability of using low cost ceramic material. The present inventors were motivated by the fact that aluminosilicate porcelain a low density ceramic material is considerably more economical than conventional ceramic armor materials such as aluminum oxide silicon carbide boron carbide and titanium carbide. Manufacture of aluminosilicate porcelain and articles made thereof is relatively inexpensive. Moreover the low density nature of a ceramic material in and of itself can be advantageous in general lighter weight materials are easier to work with in manufacture and transport.

The term low density ceramic material as used herein denotes a ceramic material characterized by a density less than or equal to approximately three grams per cubic centimeter. The term high density ceramic material as used herein denotes a ceramic material characterized by a density greater than approximately three grams per cubic centimeter. Most inventive embodiments implement low density ceramic material having a density greater than or equal to approximately two grams per cubic centimeter. That is according to typical inventive practice the density of the low density ceramic material is in the range between approximately two grams per cubic centimeter and approximately three grams per cubic centimeter.

As typically embodied the present invention s plural layer composite armor system comprises a ceramic material embedded elastomeric matrix material layer and a rigid backing layer. The ceramic material embedded elastomeric matrix material layer includes an elastomeric matrix material and plural low density ceramic elements embedded in the elastomeric matrix material. Each low density ceramic element is composed of ceramic material characterized by a density in the approximate range between two grams per cubic centimeter and three grams per cubic centimeter. The low density ceramic elements are arrayed along at least one geometric plane corresponding to the ceramic material embedded elastomeric matrix material layer. The volume ratio of the low density ceramic elements to the elastomeric matrix material is in the approximate range between four and twenty.

The present invention also provides a method for designing an inventive composite armor system which typically includes determining and recording e.g. on paper or electronically configurative change of the inventive composite armor system s low density ceramic material vis vis a reference composite armor system s high density ceramic material so that the respective ceramic material areal densities are equal. For instance where the reference composite armor system s high density ceramic elements each have a rectangular parallelepiped shape and are arrayed in a particular areal pattern an inventive composite armor system affording comparable ballistic resistant attributes can be inventively designed so that its low density ceramic elements are arrayed in a congruent areal pattern with equal in plane sizes and shapes of and equal in plane relative positioning between the ceramic elements but each have a more voluminous rectangular parallelpiped shape having greater through plane thicknesses as compared with the high density ceramic elements.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Reference is now made to through which illustrate four different plural layer composite ballistic armor systems that are representative of the experimental versions that were compared in testing performed by the U.S. Navy. Experimental armor systems and are diagrammatically portrayed in and respectively. The armor system shown in is geometrically illustrative in its frontal view of any one among the armor systems and .

Each composite armor system includes a rigid backing layer a ceramic embedded elastic e.g. elastomeric matrix material layer and a debris containment layer also referred to herein as a spall containment layer or a spall cover . Backing layer and spall containment layer are each composed of a rigid material such as a fiber reinforced polymer matrix material or a metallic metal or metal alloy material e.g. steel titanium aluminum that is appropriate to the contemplated armor application s . The intermediate layer viz. ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer is less rigid than either the spall containment layer or the backing layer .

Each experimental armor system includes arrayed geometrically congruent ceramic elements that differ from the ceramic elements included in the other three armor systems . Ceramic elements and ceramic elements are materially the same but are materially different from ceramic elements and ceramic elements which are materially different from each other. Armor system shown in includes ceramic elements which are composed of aluminosilicate porcelain. Armor system shown in includes ceramic elements which are composed of the same aluminosilicate porcelain material as are ceramic elements . Armor system shown in includes ceramic elements which are composed of 90 alumina which is tantamount to a high alumina porcelain. Armor system shown in includes ceramic elements which are composed of 99 alumina.

Moreover ceramic elements ceramic elements ceramic elements and ceramic elements all differ geometrically from one another. As elaborated on hereinbelow each armor system differs in terms of the uniform thickness of each of its ceramic elements measured from the front surface of the ceramic element to the back surface of the ceramic element and therefore each armor system differs in terms of its own uniform thickness measured from the front surface of spall containment layer to the back surface of backing layer . The uniform thicknesses of the ceramic elements differ among the four armor systems in accordance with the corresponding densities of the ceramic materials.

The ceramic elements that are included in each composite armor system are characterized by a conventional ceramic tile shape. A conventional ceramic element commonly referred to as a ceramic tile has a flat right prism shape with smooth surfaces for instance a typical conventional ceramic element has a rectangular either square or non square parallelepiped shape. All of the ceramic elements within a given armor system are materially identical and are geometrically congruent having uniform plan form and uniform thickness as depicted in through . shows by way of example a rectangular plan form for each ceramic element in the planar array. The ceramic elements depicted in similarly describe a rectangular plan form. In accordance with inventive principle the plan form of an inventive ceramic element need not be rectangular as the plan form can describe any polygonal shape e.g. triangular or hexagonal and can even describe an irregular or non polygonal shape.

In each armor system plural ceramic elements are embedded in elastomeric matrix material thereby forming a ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer which is situated on backing layer . Ceramic embedded elastic matrix material layer is composed of an elastomeric matrix material and plural ceramic elements which are embedded in the elastomeric matrix material . Each armor system includes an elastomeric matrix material that is homogeneous i.e. entirely of the same composition. The terms elastomer and elastomeric as used herein broadly refer to any material that is both polymeric and elastic e.g. viscoelastic and are considered to include both natural e.g. natural rubber and synthetic e.g. thermoset or thermoplastic materials. Frequent practice of armor system employs a thermoset elastomer polyurethane and polyurea are two thermoset elastomers that will often be suitable for constituting the elastomeric matrix material in inventive practice as polyurethane and polyurea are each characterized by high elongation to failure high strain to failure .

Ceramic elements and are arrayed in a single geometric plane in contrast ceramic elements are arrayed in two proximate parallel planes. For instance as shown in ceramic elements of armor system are arranged along a geometric plane p which corresponds to the front initial strike surface of spall containment layer . More specifically geometric plane p described by the respective front faces of the ceramic elements geometric plane p described by the front surface of spall containment layer geometric plane p described by the back surface of spall containment layer and by the front surface of ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer geometric plane p described by the back surface of ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer and by the front surface of backing layer and geometric plane p described by the back surface of backing layer are parallel to each other. As distinguished from ceramic elements of armor system ceramic elements of armor system are arrayed in two sub arrays describing two corresponding parallel geometric planes p viz. geometric planes p and p each of which is parallel to geometric planes p p pand p.

As shown in and the ceramic elements are arrayed in a single geometric plane and are coupled to backing layer . For instance ceramic elements are adhered to backing layer via elastomeric matrix material and or via a different bonding material so that the back faces of the ceramic elements are adjacent to the front surface of backing layer . In contrast as shown in the ceramic elements are arrayed in two closely spaced parallel geometric planes pand p and corresponding inter plane pairs of ceramic elements are adhered to each other along geometric plane pvia elastomeric matrix material . The ceramic elements of geometric planes pin are adhered to backing layer similarly as the ceramic elements are adhered to backing layer in and .

Generally speaking the arrayal of the ceramic elements can vary in practice of the present invention. Depending on the inventive embodiment the ceramic elements can be arranged in one or more rows and in one or more columns along the common geometric plane p. Further the ceramic elements can be arranged in one or more parallel geometric planes p such as the one geometric plane pshown in or the two geometric planes pand pshown in .

The physical mechanisms associated with projectile impact are essentially the same for armor systems and . A projectile makes initial contact with a composite ballistic armor system at the front strike surface of spall containment layer . Upon subjection of a composite ballistic armor system to impact by a projectile such as projectile shown in through the various components of the armor system serve corresponding functions as elaborated upon in the following four paragraphs.

The spall cover serves to contain flying debris e.g. fragments of the projectile and or ceramic material.

The ceramic element that is contacted by the projectile serves to blunt and or break up the projectile . If and to the extent that the contacted ceramic element fractures it absorbs energy. If more than one ceramic element is contacted by the projectile each ceramic element may behave similarly.

The elastomeric matrix material absorbs energy and constrains the fractured ceramic element s thereby imparting some continued partial effectiveness of the fractured ceramic element s . In addition the elastomeric matrix material diffuses the shock resulting from the impact thereby preventing the ceramic elements near the impact area from fracturing in this manner the elastomeric matrix material preserves the ballistic capability of neighboring ceramic material for future impacts i.e. a multi hit capability.

The backing serves as a catcher to stop debris such as the broken pieces of the projectile and or the ceramic material.

The elastomeric matrix material affords benefits other than those associated with projectile impact such as noted hereinabove. The elastomeric matrix material can serve as an adhesive for assembly of a composite armor system and due to its placement at or toward the front thereof can serve to protect the ceramic elements from accidental damage during service e.g. maintenance or repair .

The coupling of the ceramic elements to the backing layer is generally an important aspect of practicing an armor system . A conventional polymeric matrix material is an unadulterated elastomer such as polyurethane or polyurea or some combination thereof. The back face of a conventionally shaped ceramic element though smooth may adhere better to backing if an adulterated elastomeric matrix material is used such as a filled polymeric material that incorporates metal filler particles and or ceramic filler particles. The solid particulate quality of a filled polymeric material may enhance coupling of the ceramic elements to the backing. Such a particle filled elastomeric matrix material would usually represent a bonding material with higher stiffness modulus or acoustic impedance than would an unfilled elastomeric matrix material.

Generally in inventive practice the two essential layers of a inventive plural layer armor system are the ceramic embedded elastic matrix material layer and the backing layer in addition thereto an inventive armor system can be embodied to include one or practically any plural number of additional layers or sub layers of practically any material and configurational description for instance metallic fiber reinforced polymer or ceramic embedded polymer. The present invention can be practiced so that armor system includes a rigid backing layer and a ceramic embedded elastic matrix material but does not include a spall containment layer . Otherwise expressed either two layer inventive practice excluding a spall cover or three layer inventive practice including a spall cover is possible. Spall containment layer which serves a purpose of containing flying debris spall that results from impact of a projectile upon the armor system is includable or excludable in armor system depending on the contemplated application s . The spall containment layer if included therein serves a limited function and does not serve to significantly mitigate the force of the projectile which for all intents and purposes strikes the ceramic embedded elastic matrix material with full force.

The terms areal density and areal packing density as used synonymously herein denote mass per unit area such as measured in the geometric plane of the front surface of an armor system . For instance the areal density of composite armor system shown in is the mass per unit area of armor system as measured in any of the geometric planes describing armor system armor system . As illustrated in parallel geometric planes p p p p and pequivalently describe the areal expanse of armor system and the areal density can be considered to denote the mass per unit area of armor system as measured in any of these geometric planes.

Still referring to through and also referring to through the present inventors as U.S. Navy employees conducted the aforementioned testing to investigate the possibility of using aluminosilicate porcelain as a ceramic armor material as an alternative to conventional ceramic armor materials. Heretofore in conventional practice the above noted conventional pure ceramic materials aluminum oxide silicon carbide boron carbide titanium carbide etc. have been relied upon for armor applications. In their testing the present inventors demonstrated that aluminosilicate porcelain elements can be efficaciously implemented as embedded in an elastomeric layer of a plural layer composite armor material system.

Use of aluminosilicate porcelain a pure ceramic material is not known in the armor related arts as low density ceramic materials such as aluminosilicate porcelain have always been and remain dismissed as insufficiently strong ceramic materials for use in armor applications. Because they are advantageous in terms of weight cost and availability aluminosilicate porcelain and other low density ceramic materials are believed by the present inventors to be worthy of consideration as alternative ceramic armor materials to the conventional ones. As indicated in aluminosilicate porcelain has a density of 2.4 g cm significantly less than the densities of silicon carbide 3.2 g cm 90 aluminum oxide 3.6 g cm 99 aluminum oxide 3.95 g cm and titanium diboride 4.5 g cm .

For their comparative testing the present inventors assembled four experimental armor systems similar to those that are diagrammatically depicted as armor systems and in and respectively. In each of the four experimental armor systems conventionally shaped ceramic elements rectangular flat plate ceramic tiles were embedded in elastomeric matrix material . The ceramic tiles and the elastomeric matrix material together constituted the ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix layer which was adjacently situated between steel backing layer and steel spall containment layer . The steel material of the backing and spall containment layers was a rolled homogeneous armor RHA . The elastomer was a polyurea that had a density of about 1.1 g cmand that was made using the curative Versalink manufactured by Air Products. The aluminosilicate porcelain tiles and were manufactured by Crossville Ceramics Company.

In the first armor system aluminosilicate porcelain tiles were arrayed in a single geometric plane. In the second armor system aluminosilicate porcelain tiles were arrayed in two closely spaced geometric planes. In the third armor system 90 aluminum oxide tiles were arrayed in a single geometric plane. In the fourth armor system 99 aluminum oxide tiles were arrayed in a single geometric plane. The four experimental armor systems were made so as to be characterized by equal areal densities of the respective ceramic elements wherein areal density was defined as mass per unit area measured in the geometric plane e.g. frontal geometric plane of the armor system.

The areal densities of the experimental armor systems were designed to be equal to one another. Since materially and dimensionally equivalent backings and spall covers were used for all four armor systems the areal densities of the four disparite armor systems were rendered equal by varying the respective geometric configurations of the intermediate layer viz. the ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix layer . The respective armor system designs came down to considering primarily the density of the ceramic material and secondarily the density of the elastomeric material the latter density being the same for all four armor systems .

The density of a typical elastomeric matrix material used in a composite armor system is considerably lower than that of even a low density ceramic material that the elastomeric matrix material would encapsulate. For instance the density of the polyurea used in the Navy s experimentation was approximately 1.1. Most elastomers that will be suitable for inventive practice will be characterized by a density in the approximate range 0.9 1.2 g cmVariation in the density of the ceramic embedded layer may depend primarily on the filler material if used rather than the elastomeric material.

The density of the first experimental armor system s aluminosilicate porcelain tiles equaled the density of the second armor system s aluminosilicate porcelain tiles . This density of the first and second experimental armor system s aluminosilicate porcelain tiles and respectively was less than the density of the third experimental armor system s 90 alumina tiles which was less than the density of the fourth experimental armor system s 99 alumina tiles . As illustrated in since the four experimental armor systems were designed to have equal areal densities of the respective ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix layers the thicknesses of the ceramic tiles were rendered differently in accordance with the different physical densities of the ceramic tiles .

To elaborate the 90 alumina tiles of the third armor system each had a thickness t which was slightly greater than the thickness tof each of the 99 alumina tiles of the fourth armor system . In the second geometric armor system the aluminosilicate porcelain tiles each had a thickness t however since tiles were arrayed in two parallel geometric planes the double tile thickness 2t which was twice the individual tile thickness t was considered the germane measurement for tile thickness comparison purposes in other words the double tile thickness 2tcould be thought of as equaling the combined thicknesses of a geometric planes ptile a and the adjacent geometric plane ptile . The double tile thickness 2tin the second experimental armor system was equal or approximately equal to the thickness tof an individual tile in the first experimental armor system . The aluminosilicate porcelain tile thickness tand the aluminosilicate porcelain double tile thickness 2twere each significantly greater than the 90 alumina tile thickness t.

As illustrated in through the thickness of the ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix layer varied in accordance with the thickness of the ceramic elements contained therein. Elastomeric matrix layer was thicker than elastomeric matrix layer . Elastomeric matrix layer and elastomeric matrix layer were each thicker than elastomeric matrix layer . Elastomeric matrix layer was slightly thicker than elastomeric matrix layer because of the slight separation along geometric plane p between the geometric planes ptiles and the geometric plane ptiles . The total thicknesses of the armor systems themselves commensurately varied at well since dimensionally equivalent backing layers and spall containment layers were used for the four armor systems .

The four experimental armor systems were individually tested under identical circumstances in a ballistic range using a 20 millimeter fragment simulating projectile FSP such as projectile portrayed in through . The ballistic performances of the four armor systems were tested and compared in terms of V which was defined as the velocity at which 50 of the projectiles impacting an armor system at its frontal side will be stopped by the armor system . As shown in Velocity Vwas normalized to a maximum value of one hundred. In real world inventive armor applications the projectile threats may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to fragmentation projectiles or firearm projectiles such as bullet generically depicted in .

This Navy testing revealed equal or nearly equal levels of projectile resistant effectiveness among the four experimental armor systems and . It was experimentally demonstrated that the first armor system and the second armor system i.e. the two armor systems implementing aluminosilicate porcelain tiles exhibited performances comparable to those of the third armor system and the fourth armor system i.e. the two armor systems implementing alumina tiles . The first 500 third 500 and fourth 500 armor systems obtained respective Velocity Vscores of approximately 100. The second armor system 500 obtained a Velocity Vscore of approximately 95. The second armor system which had a double plane aluminosilicate porcelain tile arrangement in its intermediate layer and the first armor system which had a single plane aluminosilicate porcelain tile arrangement in its intermediate layer configurationally different from each other were not equal but were comparable in their respective performances.

This experimentation supports the conclusion that lower density ceramic material can be used in these kinds of armor systems with effectiveness equal or nearly equal to that of conventional ceramic materials by providing a thicker overall ceramic embedded matrix layer having the same areal density. Within a ceramic embedded matrix layer the density of the ceramic element material is much greater than the density of the elastomeric material . Furthermore the difference in mass or weight is relatively small between an elastomer of a thicker ceramic embedded matrix layer and the same elastomer of a thinner ceramic embedded matrix layer . For these reasons the present invention is typically practiced so as to relegate the focus of the areal density to that of just the ceramic element material.

The present inventors have thus demonstrated the efficacy of creating an analogue e.g. variant of a reference armor system by substituting low density ceramic elements for conventional ceramic elements so as to duplicate the areal pattern of the conventional ceramic elements but so as to increase the thicknesses of the low density ceramic elements so that the low density ceramic elements of the analogue armor system equate in areal density to the conventional ceramic elements of the reference armor system. The term areal pattern is used herein in association with inventive practice to denote the configuration described by an array of ceramic elements in the geometric plane of the front surfaces of the ceramic elements.

As illustrated in armor systems and are characterized by the same areal pattern. This areal pattern common to all four armor systems is described in armor system by ceramic elements in armor system by ceramic elements in armor system by ceramic elements in armor system by ceramic elements and in armor system by ceramic elements . What is meant herein in stating that all four armor systems are characterized by the same areal pattern is that all four armor systems are characterized by geometrically congruent areal patterns not merely that all four armor systems are characterized by geometrically similar areal patterns.

Furthermore the notions of the ceramic material s areal density and the ceramic material s weight are equivalent in this inventive context that is two ceramic element arrays that are the same in both areal pattern of the ceramic material and areal density of the ceramic material will necessarily have the same mass or weight of the ceramic material and two ceramic element arrays that are the same in both areal pattern of the ceramic material and mass or weight of the ceramic material will necessarily have the same areal density of the ceramic material. Accordingly the afore stated inventive principle is equivalently stated to be that two ceramic element arrays that are identical in both a areal pattern and b mass or weight but are different in c thickness one array being of thicker lower density ceramic elements and the other array being of thinner higher density ceramic elements can afford comparable performance.

The above stated inventive concepts can be extended from experimentally supported cases in which the analogue armor system and the reference armor system have the same areal pattern to extrapolative cases in which the analogue armor system and the reference armor system have different areal patterns. A more general proposition reasonably inferred from the experimental data is that equivalent or near equivalent ballistic performance can be obtained by providing an analogue armor system which includes low density ceramic material that parallels a reference armor system which includes conventional ceramic armor material in all basic respects except the following 

The analogue armor system includes a greater amount of low density ceramic material so that the low density ceramic material and the conventional ceramic armor material are characterized by the same areal density in the respective armor systems. Thus an armor system that includes an array of lower density ceramic material can perform as well as a similar armor system that includes a similar array of higher density ceramic material provided that these two arrays are characterized by equal areal densities and regardless of whether they equate or differ in their respective areal patterns.

As compared with an armor system having high density ceramic elements an armor system having low density ceramic elements according to inventive practice will tend to have a greater volume fraction of the low density ceramic material in the ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix layer due to a greater volume of the low density ceramic material in the ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix layer. The amount of ceramic material in an armor system can be expressed as a proportion of a total volume of the armor system s ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer . The present invention s armor system as usually embodied includes a ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer in which the ratio of the volume of the low density ceramic material to the volume of the elastomeric material is in the range between about three and about twenty that is the low density ceramic material fraction of the overall volume of the ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer is usually in the approximate range 75 95 . According to more typical inventive practice the low density ceramic material fraction of the overall volume of the ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer is in the approximate range 80 95 often in the approximate range 85 95 sometimes in the approximate range 90 95 . These values are to be generally contrasted with the typical ratio of the volume of the high density ceramic material to the volume of the elastomeric material in the ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer of a conventional armor system which is roughly speaking in the range between about one and about five that is in a typical conventional armor system the high density ceramic material fraction of the overall volume of the ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer is in the approximate range 50 85 .

Design of a lighter density ceramic armor system analogue so as to have the same areal pattern but a greater ceramic element thickness such as illustrated by through is one of several design choices in accordance with the present invention. Still with reference to through and also with reference to parameters other than ceramic element thickness can be selected by an inventive practitioner. These other parameters include the in plane sizes dimensions of the ceramic elements the in plane separation distances between the ceramic elements and the through plane separation distances between the ceramic elements. By in plane is meant in this usage in a direction along a geometric plane e.g. geometric plane p . By through plane is meant in this usage in a direction perpendicular to a geometric plane e.g. geometric plane p .

Each ceramic element has three dimensions viz. the two in plane dimensions of length and width and the through plane dimension of thickness. Further each ceramic element is separated in the in plane x e.g. lengthwise direction by a distance sfrom each of at least one other ceramic element in the in plane y e.g. widthwise direction which is perpendicular to the in plane x direction by a distance sfrom each of at least one other ceramic element if the array is in plural parallel geometric planes in the through plane z e.g. depth wise direction by a distance sfrom each of at least one other ceramic element in at least one other parallel geometric plane.

The present invention thus provides for variation in the dimensions of the individual ceramic elements and or in the configuration distances between ceramic elements orientations between ceramic elements etc. of the array of the ceramic elements in order to design or construct an armor system having low density ceramic material that emulates an armor system having conventional ceramic armor material. More specifically typical inventive practice provides for variation of at least one or any combination of at least two of ceramic element array parameters including the following ceramic element lengths in plane x dimension ceramic element widths in plane y dimension ceramic element thicknesses through plane z dimension separations between adjacent pairs of ceramic elements in the in plane x direction separations between adjacent pairs of ceramic elements in the in plane y direction separations between adjacent pairs of ceramic elements in the through plane z direction.

Ceramic elements and ceramic elements both have a conventional ceramic armor element shape viz. smooth flat parallelepiped. As illustrated in tight packing of ceramic elements is made possible by their geometric rectangularity and congruency. Ceramic elements are shown in to be spaced somewhat apart in contrast to ceramic elements which are shown in to be more tightly packed together e.g. more closely or contiguously arranged. As compared with the array of the in plane gaps separations sand sbetween the ceramic elements are reduced in the array of . can be conceived to represent smaller in plane separations between ceramic elements that have the same in plane shape and that have the same or larger or smaller in plane sizes as compared with the ceramic elements shown in .

As a general rule a ceramic material is denser than an elastomeric material therefore the smaller are the gaps between the ceramic elements the greater is the areal density synonymously areal packing density of the armor system that includes those ceramic elements. The ceramic elements of approach minimization of the gaps sand stherebetween thereby approaching maximization of the areal density of the armor system . The drawings herein portraying various composite armor systems viz. through and FIG. are diagrammatic and illustrative in nature and are not intended to suggest preferences as to numbers dimensions or spatial relationships of or between ceramic elements.

The ceramic elements are disclosed herein by way of example as being conventionally shaped i.e. as being smooth flat parallelepipeds. Inventive principles are also applicable to unconventional shapes of ceramic elements. For instance the instant application bears some relation to the U.S. nonprovisional patent application being filed concurrently herewith and incorporated herein by reference for the invention entitled Composite Ballistic Armor Having Geometric Ceramic Elements for Shock Wave Attenuation joint inventors Curtis A. Martin Gilbert F. Lee and Jeffry J. Fedderly. This related application of Curtis A. Martin Gilbert F. Lee and Jeffry J. Fedderly discloses inter alia novel geometric shapes of ceramic inclusive elements. The present invention can be practiced using ceramic elements characterized by geometric shapes in accordance with the teachings of Curtis A. Martin Gilbert F. Lee and Jeffry J. Fedderly.

Inventive plural layer armor systems are not necessarily embodied so as to have an entirely linear straight character such as illustrated in and . Inventive practice encompasses inventive plural layer armor systems that are partially or entirely curved in order to fit the contour or curvature of an entity such as a land vehicle or a ship. Now referring to inventive plural layer armor systems can be embodied so as to have a curved or curvilinear character in one direction or plural directions or all directions. is intended to be illustrative of curvature of an inventive armor system but is not intended to suggest any particular application thereof. Similarly as exhibited by the straight layer surface interface geometric planes shown in and the curved layer surface interface geometric planes shown in are parallel to each other.

As illustrated in curved geometric plane p described by the respective front faces of the ceramic elements curved geometric plane p described by the front surface of spall containment layer curved geometric plane p described by the back surface of spall containment layer and by the front surface of ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer curved geometric plane p described by the back surface of ceramic embedded elastomeric matrix material layer and by the front surface of backing layer and curved geometric plane p described by the back surface of backing layer are parallel to each other. Curved geometric plane pis described in an approximateive manner by the front faces of the ceramic elements . The straight front faces of ceramic elements tend to be parallel to the straight geometric tangents of the corresponding curved portions of the other curved geometric planes e.g. curved geometric plane p.

The term geometric plane as used herein specifically to indicate geometries relating to armor system layering e.g. surfaces or interfaces of layers or ceramic inclusive element arrayal e.g. front points or front surfaces of ceramic elements of an array in the context of inventive practice of plural layer armor systems broadly refers to a geometric plane that is straight in all directions or that is at least partially curved in at least one direction. Otherwise expressed a geometric plane in this specialized usage of the term can be characterized by complete linearity or by some degree of linearity and some degree of curvilinearity or by complete curvilinearity. Regardless of the degree of curvature if any of an inventive armor system its system layering and ceramic inclusive element arrayal are configured so as to generally manifest parallelness which can be expressed in terms of corresponding geometric planes.

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

