---

title: User experience with customized user dictionary
abstract: In one embodiment, constructing one or more customized dictionaries for a particular user, each of the customized dictionaries comprising a different blending of one or more frequently used words collected from texts submitted by one or more users; and in response to the user inputting text to an electronic device, selecting one of the customized dictionaries and utilizing it to aid the particular user in inputting text.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330082&OS=09330082&RS=09330082
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09330082
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120214
---
Dictionaries are an indispensable tool that helps people improve their speech and writing. In the electronic age dictionaries provide even more benefits to electronic device users. For example many software applications whether desktop based or web based support features such as spell and grammar checking automatic spelling correction automatic word completion and common phrase suggestion by utilizing electronic dictionaries.

An electronic dictionary includes a collection of words. Many software applications whether desktop based or web based support functionalities such as spell and grammar checking automatic spelling correction automatic word completion and common phrase suggestion by utilizing electronic dictionaries. However existing dictionaries have several short comings. As an example each dictionary typically focuses on a specific language e.g. an English dictionary includes a collection of English words a Chinese dictionary includes a collection of English words and an Arabic dictionary includes a collection of Arabic words . And yet with globalization and the Internet electronic device users often mix words from multiple languages. As a result single language dictionaries become increasingly inadequate. As another example there is no or very little user customization for dictionaries e.g. in terms of what words are included in a dictionary . Often each software application uses one standard dictionary for all of its users. Even when a software application e.g. Microsoft Word enables its users to add specific words to the standard dictionary provided by the application the process is inefficient e.g. a user must manually add one word at a time to the standard dictionary and the customized dictionary is not easily portable .

To address some of these problems in particular embodiments customized dictionaries are constructed for individual users or groups of users or for different communication channels. Words are collected from texts submitted by electronic device users through various communication channels. The usage of these words are analyzed for different communication categories and for each communication category the words are sorted based on their respective usage frequencies in that communication category. Electronic dictionaries are constructed by blending some of the frequently used words in at least some of the communication categories. Different dictionaries may be constructed by blending the words differently. illustrates an example system for creating customized dictionaries. illustrates an example method for creating customized dictionaries. These two figures are described in association with each other.

As a user performs activities with his or her electronic device the user frequently submits texts e.g. as input through the electronic device. The electronic device in this case may be considered an input device and may have any applicable form such as for example and without limitation mobile device e.g. mobile telephone notebook or tablet computer etc. desktop computer game console and personal digital assistant PDA . Similarly the texts may have any applicable form and submitted for any applicable purpose such as for example and without limitation e mail chat post comment status update tweet and search query.

More generally users may submit texts through any number of communication channels . In particular embodiments each communication channel may be characterized by any number of applicable features such as for example and without limitation the object being used for the communication the input device used for submitting the texts e.g. mobile device non mobile device etc. and the text input itself In particular embodiments each communication channel may be further characterized by any number of applicable dimensions such as for example and without limitation locale e.g. the locale of the user submitting the texts language e.g. the language of the texts geography e.g. the location of the user when submitting the texts culture e.g. the cultural background of the user the form or method of the communication e.g. chat message comment post status update etc. and the intended recipient of the communication e.g. communication to the general public or communication to specific individuals such as the user s friends and families .

Thus given a specific text communication submitted by a specific user through a specific communication channel the communication channel may indicate characteristics about the text such as the object used for the communication the type of input device used by the user to submit the text e.g. whether the input device is a mobile or non mobile device whether the input device has a full keyboard the form or method of the communication the language of the text the locale geography or cultural background of the user the recipient of the communication and so on. In particular embodiments words from texts submitted by various users through various communication channels are collected as illustrated in STEP . In some implementations the input devices used by the users to submit texts may be online or offline. If an input device is online the words may be collected from the text input as soon as the user submits them. If an input device is offline the words may be collected subsequently e.g. after the input device is connected to a network .

For each communication channel from which texts are collected the usage frequency of the individual words i.e. how often a word is used in the texts is analyzed along each dimension of each communication channel as illustrated in STEP . For clarification purposes each communication channel dimension is referred to as a communication category.

As an example suppose that the word iPhone has been found in the texts submitted by the users. The usage frequency of the word iPhone may be determined for each communication category i.e. each unique channel dimension . For example in terms of communication form the word iPhone may be used more frequently in chats than in e mails or more frequently in comments than in tweets. In terms of user s geography location the word iPhone may be used more frequently by users located in California than by users located in Montana. In terms of input device the words iPhone may be used more frequently by users using mobile telephones than by users using desktop computers. In terms of user s cultural background the words iPhone may be used more frequently by younger users e.g. ages 16 to 35 than by older users e.g. ages 60 and older .

As another example with modern electronic communication shorthand or word abbreviation is favored especially by mobile device e.g. mobile telephone users. Suppose that the word lol abbreviation for laughing out loud has been found in the texts submitted by the users. Again the usage frequency of the word lol may be determined for each communication category. For example in terms of language the word lol may be used more frequently by English speaking users than by non English speaking users. In terms of input device the words lol may be used more frequently when the texts are submitted through mobile telephones.

In particular embodiments for each word collected the stem of the word is considered. For example for wait waits waited and waiting the stem is wait . For relate related relationship and relating the stem is relate . In some implementations when determining the usage frequency of a word those words sharing the same stem may be considered the same word.

In particular embodiments certain undesirable words may be filtered out and discarded. For example swearing words in various languages words or abbreviations that are offensive words or abbreviations that may make people uncomfortable or misspelled words may be discarded. In particular embodiments certain desirable words may be added. For example popular website names e.g. Facebook Google Yahoo Amazon Flickr Twitter or product names e.g. iPad iPhone Xbox Play Station or trendy terms or abbreviations e.g. omg LQTM may be added.

In particular embodiments for each communication category the words are sorted according to their respective usage frequencies in that communication category as illustrated in STEP . In some implementations a frequency table may be constructed which may include any number of applicable communication categories e.g. determined based on communication channels and dimensions . For each communication category the usage frequencies of the words collected from the texts submitted by the users may be stored in frequency table .

In particular embodiments customized dictionaries may be created by blending the words from some or all of the communication categories as illustrated in STEP . In some implementations only the more frequently used words from each communication category are used to create the customized dictionaries. For example the top n e.g. n 25 000 most frequently used words from each communication category are blended.

In particular embodiments different customized dictionaries may be created by blending the words from various communication categories differently. A customized dictionary may be created for each individual user or group of users in which case the same customized dictionary is used for every user in the group . Similarly a customized dictionary may be created for each communication channel each type of input device each form of communication and so on. For example a customized dictionary may be created for comments while another customized dictionary may be created for chats or instant messages. A customized dictionary may be created for use with mobile input devices while another customized dictionary may be created for use with non mobile devices. Different customized dictionaries may be created for users from different countries and thus speaking different language or for users in different age groups or for users in different professions and so on. Different customized dictionaries may be created for different individual users as well. In addition a specific user may have multiple customized dictionaries for use under different circumstances e.g. different input devices communication forms and recipients .

In some implementations coefficients may be used to determine the blending of the most frequently used words from various communication categories in order to construct a customized dictionary for a specific user or group of users. In particular embodiments there may be any number of entities also referred to as users in existence. In this context the term user is not limited to humans but may include any type of entities human or non human e.g. objects real or virtual e.g. web pages digital files . In particular embodiments the entities or users may exist anywhere. Individual users may interact with each other via the Internet. For example a human may comment on a photo post a message share content with other humans chat with another human subscribe to a news group. Two humans may live in the same city go to the same school work at the same place are members of the same family. Two messages may belong to the same thread. Two photos may belong to the same album or be submitted by the same human. The specific cases vary greatly. In particular embodiments if there is any type of connection or association between two users then the two users are considered to have interacted with each other.

In particular embodiments the interactions between the individual users are monitored and collected for specific periods of time e.g. during the past X number of days such as the past 30 60 or 90 days . In some implementations the users and their interactions may be represented using a graph which may include any number of nodes and edges. Each node represents a user e.g. human or object . If there is an interaction between two users then an edge connects the two corresponding nodes respectively representing the two users. In addition for each edge there may be associated data indicating how strong the interaction is between the two users represented by the nodes linked by the edge. Given two users the information stored in the graph may be used to determine the affinity between the two users based on each user s historical activity. In some implementations the affinity between two users may be computed using an affine function that include a number of coefficients. In some implementations some or all of these coefficients may be determined through machine learning. More specifically in some implementations a supervised machine learning algorithm may be used with the training data obtained through farming by providing a statistically significant number of users several options and monitoring their response. In other implementations a supervised machine learning algorithm is trained entirely based on historical user activity and past responses to choices of actions.

In particular embodiments coefficients may be similarly e.g. through machine learning determined in connection with words used by humans when inputting texts in various communication channels. In some implementations a coefficient is associated with and determined for each communication category. Alternatively or in addition in some implementations a coefficient is associated with and determined for each word used to create the customized dictionaries. The blending of the most frequently used words from various communication categories may be adjusted by adjusting the coefficient values associated with the individual communication categories or the words in each communication category. In some implementations when blending the words to create a customized dictionary for a user or a group of users the coefficients of the communication category or words may be adjusted based on factors such as for example and without limitations the type of input devices the language of the texts the location and background of the users and the form of communication for which the customized dictionaries are to be used. As an example if a customized dictionary is created for use with mobile devices it may include more shorthand or abbreviations. In addition since communications sent through mobile device are often less formal the customized dictionary for mobile devices may not include words such as the a etc. If a customized dictionary is created for teenage users it may include more trendy or fashionable terms. If a customized dictionaries is created for a group of engineers it may include more scientific or technical terms.

In particular embodiments customized dictionaries may be created for users who are members of a social networking website e.g. www.facebook.com . Each user may have his or her personal social connections e.g. friends and families co workers with the social networking website. A customized dictionary may be created for each individual user and may include the names of that user s social connections. In fact customized dictionaries may be created at any level of granularity. For example given a specific user one customized dictionary may be created for this user for use with his mobile telephone to send instant messages to his personal friends and families while another customized dictionary may be created for this user for use with his desktop computer to send e mails to his colleagues and professional associates. A third customized dictionary may be created for this user specifically for use in communication with his father. The coefficients associated with the words may be adjusted based on the social information of the users maintained with the social networking website. Such social information may include for example and without limitation the social connections among the users e.g. the degree of separation between two users and the actions taken by the users e.g. posting messages checking in status uploading and sharing videos and photos reviewing products commenting on various topics .

Languages are fluid and evolve over time. New words are created or migrate from one language to another. Existing words may pick up new meanings or are used in new ways. On the other hand some words may fall out of common usage as time passes. In particular embodiments words are continuously collected from texts submitted by the users through various communication channels and their usage frequencies in each communication category are updated from time to time. Within each communication category as the words are sorted according to their respective usage frequencies those words that are more popular among the users move up in rank while those words that are less frequently used move down in rank. By selecting the top n most frequently used words from each communication category for blending to create the customized dictionaries the resulting dictionaries include those words frequently used by the users at any given time. In particular embodiments the customized dictionaries may be updated from time to time to reflect any change in word usage or the current state of word usage among the users. Consequently the customized dictionaries are dynamic and do not suffer those limitations associated with traditional or standard dictionaries. For example words such as computer multi media Internet blog are commonly used by users from different parts of the world who speak different languages. Thus their usage frequencies may be high even among texts submitted by non English speaking users. When creating a customized dictionary for German speaking users it may include these English words as well. As a result a customized dictionary may include words from multiple languages. As another example with mobile device users new trendy words may appear and quickly gain popularity among the users. As a new word becomes more and more popular among the users its usage frequency increases accordingly. The word may be included in the customized dictionaries as it becomes sufficiently popular among the users even though it does not exist in traditional dictionaries.

In particular embodiments when a customized dictionary is created or updated it may be sent to the user or users e.g. pushed to the user s device for whom the customized dictionary is created. Software functions that rely on a dictionary may use this customized dictionary instead of the standard dictionary.

As described above in particular embodiments any number of customized dictionaries may be constructed for a user. Different customized dictionaries may be suitable for different types of input devices different communication channels different forms of communications different recipients and so on. In addition in particular embodiments the words included in the customized dictionaries constructed for a specific user may be selected based in part on the information known about the user such as the user s demographical information e.g. age gender professions education location hobbies and interests etc. the user s social connections e.g. the names of the user s friends families colleagues etc. locations the user likes to visit e.g. the names of the bars or restaurants the user prefers the activities the user likes to do etc. For example if the user is from or lives on the East Coast of the United States the customized dictionaries may include more words commonly used by people from the East Coast. If the user is from or lives in one of the Southern states of the United States the customized dictionaries may include more words commonly used by the people from the South. As another example if among the user s social connections at a social networking website the following people are known to be close social connections of the user Paula Smith Andrew Jones Mary Jackson and Henry Brown. A customized dictionary constructed for this user e.g. especially one for use when the user sends messages to his or her friends may include those specific names of the user s close social connections e.g. Paula Andrew Mary and Henry even if those names are not among the most frequently used words found in the texts submitted by the users in general. As a third example if the user is fluent in multiple languages and uses words from multiple languages in his or her speech a customized dictionary may include words from several languages used by the user.

In particular embodiments if there is little or no information known about a user a default customized dictionary may initially be utilized for the user. In some implementations the default customized dictionary may be an average blending of the most frequently used words from various communication categories. Thereafter as more information becomes known about the user e.g. the names of the user s social connections the user s hobbies and interests the user s speech pattern etc. the customized dictionary may be updated from time to time to reflect the new information known about the user e.g. adding the names of the user s social connections or the words the user likes to use in his or her speech to the customized dictionary .

In particular embodiments the customized dictionaries constructed for a user may be utilized in aiding the user when the user inputs texts into electronic devices. illustrates an example method for utilizing customized dictionaries in aiding a user in inputting texts. Suppose that one or more customized dictionaries have been constructed for a user. Thereafter the user may input text to an electronic device as illustrate in STEP . In response a customized dictionary constructed for the user may be selected for use in aiding the user in inputting the text as illustrated in STEP . If there is only one customized dictionary constructed for the user that customized dictionary may be selected. On the other hand if there are multiple customized dictionaries constructed for the user in particular embodiments one of these customized dictionaries may be selected.

In some implementations the customized dictionary may be selected based on factors such as for example and without limitation the type of electronic device used by the user to input the text the recipients for receiving the inputted text and the form of communication embodied by the inputted text. For example if the electronic device used by the user is a mobile device as opposed to for example a non mobile device the selected customized dictionary may be more suitable for use with mobile devices e.g. a mobile device that does not have a full size keyboard . In this case the customized dictionary may include more shorthand words or word abbreviations. As another example if the recipient of the inputted text is a friend of the user s as opposed to for example the user s professional colleagues the customized dictionary may include more words or colloquialisms frequently shared among the user and his or her friends. On the other hand if the recipient of the inputted text is the user s supervisor at work the customized dictionary may include more words especially related to the user s profession or work e.g. if the user is an electronic engineer the selected customized dictionary may include more technical terms in the field of electronic engineering . As a third example if the inputted text relates to the user composing a document or e mail the selected customized dictionary may include more words that are more suitable for the content of the document or e mail e.g. formal words . On the other hand if the inputted text relates to the user sending a text message the selected customized dictionary may include more word abbreviations commonly found in text messages. One or more factors may be considered when selecting a customized dictionary for the user and the customized dictionary may be selected on any level of granularity. For example on a more granular level the selected customized dictionary may be suitable for the user when inputting text to the user s mobile telephone for sending messages to the user s close friends.

In particular embodiments the selected customized dictionary may be utilized in aiding the user in inputting the text as illustrated in STEP . In some implementations the selected customized dictionary may be used with functionalities such as for example and without limitation spelling and grammar checking automatically completing a word i.e. auto completion automatically replacing an incorrect e.g. misspelled word i.e. auto correction suggesting word choices or alternatives. Words may be selected from the customized dictionary and suggested to the user. Since the customized dictionary is especially constructed for the user the words selected from such a dictionary as opposed to for example a standard dictionary may be more suitable to the user s personal preference and needs.

For example suppose that the user starts typing the letters co into his or her electronic device. Words may be selected from the customized dictionary based on the already inputted letters co e.g. words that start with co . When suggesting words to the user as choices for completing the word the user is typing if the user is an artist the word color may be ranked higher in this user s customized dictionary and thus selected for suggestion to the user. In contrast with a non customized standard dictionary the word cow may be selected randomly and suggested to the user which may be less likely the word the user means to type.

As another example words may be suggested to the user e.g. for auto completion or correction based on the intended recipients of the inputted text. Suppose that the user starts typing the letters da into his or her electronic device. If the user is composing an e mail to his or her father the word dad may be selected from the customized dictionary and suggested to the user for completing the word input. If the user is composing a text message to his or her spouse the word darling may be selected from the customized dictionary and suggested to the user. Furthermore the word darling may be automatically inserted into the text input field if the user typically addresses his or her spouse in such a manner. On the other hand if the user is composing a blog message to be posted at a website for read by the general public as opposed to for example a specific recipient the word dark may be suggested to the user.

As a third example suppose that the user is working on a document and has typed in a misspelled word cirkiut . Further suppose that the user is an electronic engineer and thus the customized dictionary constructed for this user includes technical terms commonly used in the field of electronic engineering. In some cases the word circuit may be selected from the user s customized dictionary and suggested to user as a correction for replacing the misspelled word cirkiut . Alternatively in other cases the misspelled word cirkiut may be automatically replaced by the correctly spelled word circuit .

In particular embodiments a machine learned model may be used to help improve the selections of words for aiding users in inputting texts. Machine learning is a scientific discipline that is concerned with the design and development of algorithms that allow computers to learn based on data. The computational analysis of machine learning algorithms and their performance is a branch of theoretical computer science known as computational learning theory. The desired goal is to improve the algorithms through experience e.g. by applying the data to the algorithms in order to train the algorithms . The data are thus often referred to as training data . With customized dictionaries a machine learned model may be trained to help improve the construction of the customized dictionaries for the individual users e.g. which words to include in which customized dictionary for which user as well as selecting specific words from a customized dictionary in aiding a specific user when inputting texts.

For example suppose that when the user starts typing the letters co into his or her electronic device the following words are selected from the user s customized dictionary and suggested to the user in the following order color company cold concert and college . Further suppose that even though the word color is the first word suggested to the user the user actually chooses the word concert to complete the word input. If this happens a few times the machine learned model may be trained to take the user s selections as feedback. Subsequently when the user types the letters co again the word concert may be suggested to the user as the first choice e.g. instead of color .

Currently each different software application may have its own dictionary. For example Microsoft Word has a dictionary for use with spelling and grammar checking The Google search engine has its own dictionary for suggesting words as search queries or for correcting misspelled words submitted in search queries. As another example when a desktop application is installed on multiple electronic devices there is a different copy of the dictionary used by the desktop application stored on each electronic device. Consequently even if a user can customize one copy of the dictionary associated with a desktop application stored on one electronic device the customization is not automatically reflected in other copies of the dictionary stored on the other electronic devices. Web based applications typically do not allow individual users to customize their dictionaries.

In particular embodiments when customized dictionaries are constructed for a user the same customized dictionaries may be utilized in connection with any software operation provided by any software application performed on any electronic device. Consequently the user does not need to deal with multiple versions of dictionaries but may have a consistent experience in terms of inputting texts for various purposes.

Often a user may have multiple electronic devices which the user uses under different circumstances. The user may have a computer in his or her office which the user uses at work and another computer at home which the user uses for personal activities. The user may have a mobile device e.g. a mobile telephone which the user carries around with him or her and uses whenever needed. In some cases the user may perform the same software operation e.g. searching information on the Internet using a search engine sending e mails using any one of these devices. In other cases there may be different software applications installed on different devices e.g. a project management application installed on the user s work computer a word processor installed on the user s home computer and a chat application installed on the user s mobile device . In particular embodiments the customized dictionaries may be used to aid the user in inputting texts regardless of which electronic device or which software application on which electronic device the user uses.

Suppose that a set e.g. one or more of customized dictionaries has been constructed for the user. Each customized dictionary in the set may be a different blending of the most frequently used words from various communication categories as described above and may be suitable for use with different software operations or on different types of devices. These dictionaries are constructed for the user taking into consideration factors such as the user s preferences interests demographic information social connections etc. Thus the customized dictionaries include words more suitable to the user s needs than for example a standard dictionary.

As one example when the user inputs text on one electronic device one of the customized dictionaries from the set may be selected to aid the user in inputting the text. When the user inputs text on another different electronic device again one of the customized dictionaries from the set may be selected to aid the user in inputting the text. In this case a dictionary is selected from the same set of customized dictionaries constructed for the user which ensures that the dictionary used is more suitable to the user s needs. In either case the customized dictionary may be selected from the set based on factors such as the type of device used by the user for inputting the text the software application involved the type of communication etc. If the first electronic device is the user s desktop computer at work the dictionary selected may include words that are more suitable for professional communications or in the user s professional field. If the second electronic device is the user s mobile telephone the dictionary selected may include shorter or abbreviated words that are more suitable for casual communications or easy to input into a device that does not have a full size keyboard.

As another example the user may search the Internet or send e mails through multiple electronic devices. To provide a more consistent experience the same customized dictionary may be used whenever the user inputs texts as search queries into a search engine regardless of which web browser or which electronic device is used for conducting the search. Thus when the user types co into the Google search engine using Microsoft Internet Explorer executing on the user s home computer the word concert may be suggested to the user. Similarly when the user types co into the Yahoo search engine using Mozilla Firefox executing on the user s mobile telephone the word concert may again be suggested to the user. By using the same customized dictionary it ensures that those words that are more applicable to this user s needs are suggested to the user. Similarly the same customized dictionary may be used whenever the user composes e mails regardless of which e mail applications e.g. Microsoft Outlook or Mozilla Thunderbird or which electronic device e.g. the user s computer at work or at home is used for sending the e mails. Thus whenever the user sends an e mail his father regardless of which e mail application or which device the user is using when the user types da the word dad is always suggested to the user.

As a third example as described above a customized dictionary created for a user may include words especially applicable to the user s circumstances such as the names of the user s friends and families or words commonly used in the user s professional field. Such a customized dictionary may replace the standard dictionaries provided by various desktop or web based software applications. Consequently when the user uses any software application on any device the same customized dictionary is used and those words especially applicable to the user s circumstances are always available to the user.

As a fourth example often the same software application may be installed on different electronic devices e.g. a web browser may be installed on any network capable electronic device . In addition a copy of the customized dictionaries constructed for a user may also be stored on each electronic device associated with the user. When the user conducts searches on the Internet using a web browser on a first electronic device a customized dictionary stored on the first electronic device may be used to aid the user in conducting the searches. When the user conducts searches on the Internet using a web browser on a second electronic device again a customized dictionary stored on the second electronic device may be used to aid the user in conducting the searches. Since in both cases the user is conducting searches on the Internet the selected customized dictionary on the first electronic device and the selected customized dictionary on the may be two copies of the same customized dictionary. Consequently regardless of which electronic device the user uses to conduct the searches on the Internet the words provided by the selected customized dictionary may be the same or similar thus providing a consistent experience in terms of the dictionary related features to the user.

In particular embodiments the customized dictionaries constructed for a user may be associated with the user and follows the user as the user inputs texts in connection with different software operations. The steps illustrated in may be similarly applied regardless of which software operation is involved or which electronic device is used. This ensures that the user has a consistent experience with respect to dictionary related functionalities.

In particular embodiments if there are multiple electronic devices associated with a user the customized dictionaries constructed for the user are sent to each of these electronic devices so that they are available for use in aiding the user in inputting texts regardless of which electronic device the user uses. In addition there any of these customized dictionaries is updated the updated customized dictionary is sent to each electronic device associated with the user.

In particular embodiments if a user is a member of a social networking system copies of the customized dictionaries constructed for the user may be stored with the social networking system for the user. When the user performs any activity that may need a dictionary the social networking system may provide a suitable customized dictionary to the device used by the user.

Alternatively or in addition in particular embodiments a copy of each customized dictionary constructed for a user may be stored on each electronic device associated with the user. When the user performs any activity that may need a dictionary through any electronic device the copy of the dictionary stored on that device may be used. In this case when the user s customized dictionaries are updated copies of the updated customized dictionaries may be pushed to each electronic device associated with the user for storage and subsequent usage when needed.

In particular embodiments suppose that a user is a member of a social networking system and copies of the customized dictionaries constructed for the user are stored with the social networking system for the user. If the user is performing actions using an electronic device which needs a dictionary and the user s customized dictionaries are not available on this electronic device e.g. copies of the user s customized dictionaries have not been sent to and stored on this electronic device the electronic device may send a request to the social networking system and optionally with some authentication information. Upon successfully authenticating the user or the device the social networking system may send copies of the user s customized dictionaries to the electronic device for storage and use by the user.

In addition in particular embodiments an electronic device which already has copies of the user s customized dictionaries may from time to time or as needed send a request to the social networking system to check if the copies of the user s customized dictionaries currently available on the device are update to date e.g. the most recent versions of the user s customized dictionaries based on the dictionaries construction dates . If not the social networking system may send copies of the last versions of the user s customized dictionaries to the electronic device for storage and use by the user.

In particular embodiments when a user or a group of users has customized dictionaries advertisements especially applicable to the user or group of users may be selected or constructed for the user or group of users based on the user s customized dictionaries. illustrates an example method for presenting advertisements to a user based on the user s customized dictionaries. Although this method illustrates presenting customized advertisements to individual users it may be similarly applied to present customized advertisements to individual groups of users sharing the same customized dictionaries.

In particular embodiments a set of customized dictionaries may be constructed for a user as illustrated in STEP . This may be achieved using the process illustrated in . The words included in each customized dictionary may be especially suitable to the user s particular circumstances. For example as described above there may be words that are most frequently used by users for specific communication devices and channels there may be words applicable to the user s social circumstances e.g. the names of the user s friends and families or professional circumstances e.g. the words especially applicable to the user s professional fields there may words reflecting the user s hobbies and interests and so on.

Advertisements may be constructed or selected for the user based on the words included in the user s customized dictionaries as illustrated in STEP . For example if the word iPhone is included in one of the user s customized dictionaries an advertisement about iPhone or other similar models of smartphones may be selected for the user. If the word safari is included in one of the user s customized dictionaries an advertisement on vacationing packages to a popular safari destination e.g. Kenya may be selected for the user.

In particular embodiments a customized dictionary created for a user may include tenths of thousands of words. When selecting customized advertisements for the user based on the words included in the user s customized dictionary those words most frequently used by the user may be considered. For example if the user often uses the word hiking this may suggest that the user is interested in this particular activity. Thus customized advertisements on hiking shoes hiking apparels or hiking equipments may be selected for the user.

In particular embodiments the advertisements may be selected further based on the specific activity the user is conducting which utilizes the help of a customized dictionary. As an example suppose that the user is conducting a search on the Internet by submitting search queries to a search engine. Further suppose that as the user types pl several words staring with pl are selected from one of the user s customized dictionaries and suggested to the user e.g. for auto completion and the user selects the word plasma . Based on this user selection an advertisement on plasma TV may be selected for the user. In this case the word selected by the user from those words suggested to the user may relate to a product or service and any number of customized advertisements relating to this product or service may be selected for and presented to the user.

In particular embodiments the advertisement specifically selected for the user may be presented to the user as illustrated in STEP . In the example with the advertisement on plasma TV the advertisement may be included in the web page that is dynamically created to include the search results and presented to the user when the web page is presented to the user. In other saturations advertisements may be sent to the electronic device currently used by the user so that they may be presented to the user at appropriate times. For example when the user posts a blog message discussing popular safari destinations an advertisement on vacationing packages to a popular safari destination may be presented to the user after the user submits the post.

In particular embodiments The methods illustrated in may be implemented as computer software stored in one or more computer readable non transitory storage media. In particular embodiments the methods illustrated in may be performed by one or more computing devices e.g. computers mobile telephones consoles etc. . For example the method may be implemented as computer software stored in one or more computer readable storage non transitory media and executed by a processor. illustrates an example computer system.

In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA C or C . In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Herein reference to computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy disks floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes holographic storage media solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives one or more other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or a suitable combination of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

