---

title: High stiffness vibration damping apparatus, methods and systems
abstract: Vibration damping apparatus, systems, objects including such apparatus and systems, and vibration damping methods. The vibration damping involves amplifying a vibration-induced displacement and damping the amplified displacement.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09194452&OS=09194452&RS=09194452
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 09194452
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121031
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. W911 NF 11 1 0004. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Vibration damping materials are employed in a wide variety of mechanical systems to damp vibrations that can degrade performance of the systems. The present inventors have determined conventional vibration damping materials are susceptible to improvement. For example low stiffness materials are commonly used for vibration damping because their flexible lattices are inherently better at dissipating energy. In some instances however devices must be securely held in place despite the fact that the devices are sensitive to or are the source of vibrations. Launch vehicle adaptors motor mounts and high precision moving devices are examples of such devices. Low stiffness materials are less than optimal here because they permit movement as are conventional high stiffness materials because they have relatively poor damping characteristics.

A vibration damping apparatus in accordance with one embodiment of a present invention includes a displacement conversion device configured to convert displacement in a first direction into displacement in a second direction a motion amplifier responsive to displacement in the second direction and a motion damper operably connected to the motion amplifier. The present inventions also include systems and objects with such vibration damping apparatus.

A vibration damping method in accordance with one embodiment of a present invention includes the steps of converting a vibration induced displacement in a first direction into a displacement in a second direction amplifying the displacement in the second direction to create an amplified displacement and damping the amplified displacement.

There are a variety of advantages associated with such a vibration damping apparatus systems objects and methods. For example the present vibration damping apparatus may be configured such that it is relatively stiff in the direction of the vibration forces e.g. the first direction while providing better damping characteristics than have been heretofore associated with materials and structures having the same stiffness in the direction of the vibration forces.

The following is a detailed description of the best presently known modes of carrying out the inventions. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but is made merely for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the inventions.

A vibration damping apparatus or damping apparatus in accordance with one embodiment of a present invention is generally represented by reference numeral in . The exemplary damping apparatus includes a displacement conversion device a motion amplifier or displacement amplifier and a motion damper or displacement damper each of which is discussed in greater detail below. Briefly the displacement conversion device converts displacement thereof along a first axis A or in a first direction caused by vibrational force Finto displacement along a second axis A or in a second direction . The first and second axes A and A or different directions may be transverse including perpendicular as shown or otherwise non coaxial. The period of the back and forth vibration induced displacement along each axis is the same. In at least some instances the magnitude of the displacement along the second axis A i.e. the displacement distance is greater than the magnitude of the displacement along the first axis A i.e. the displacement distance and in view of the fact that the periods are the same the velocity of the displacement along the second axis is greater than the velocity of the displacement along the first axis.

The motion amplifier includes an interface member that also moves along the second axis A and whose motion is damped by the motion damper . The displacement of the interface member along the second axis A is relative to the displacement of the displacement conversion device along the first axis A amplified both in magnitude and velocity. In particular the motion amplifier creates displacement i.e. the displacement distance at the interface member that is greater than the displacement distance in response to the displacement of portions of the displacement conversion device along the second axis A. The period of the back and forth vibration induced displacement of the interface member is the same as that of the displacement conversion device along axes A and A. As such the velocity of the interface member is greater than the velocity of the displacement conversion device along axis A and along axis A. Thus in the illustrated implementation the vibration induced displacement and velocity that occurs along axis A is amplified and then the amplified displacement and velocity is itself amplified.

Given that damping force is equal to the damping coefficient multiplied by the velocity to the damped object F cv damping the twice amplified motion at the interface member results in far more effective damping of vibrations applied to damping apparatus than would be the case if the motion damper was acting directly on movement of the displacement conversion device along the first axis A or the second axis A. As such the present vibration damping apparatus may be configured such that it effectively damps vibrations despite being relatively stiff in the direction of the vibration forces.

The exemplary motion amplifier includes a positive spring i.e. a spring with a positive spring constant K and a negative spring i.e. a spring with a negative spring constant K . As used herein a negative spring is spring which has a stress strain or load displacement curve with a negative slope. In some instances the negative slope will be over only a portion of the stress strain or load displacement curve. Here the spring may be selected preloaded and or physically restrained such that it operates within the region of negative slope. As is explained below the spring constants K and K are close to but not exactly equal and opposite in value. The absolute value or magnitude of the negative spring constant K is slightly less than the absolute value or magnitude of the positive spring constant K. As used herein slightly less is 1 to 10 less.

By way of background it should be noted that when positive and negative springs which have spring constants that are equal in absolute value i.e. have equal and opposite spring constants are combined in parallel the resulting spring constant is zero. Conversely when two springs of equal and opposite spring constant are combined in series the resulting spring constant is infinity. If an outside force is applied to the positive negative spring series the overall length of the spring series remains constant but the interface between the positive and negative springs will move as the positive spring compresses and the negative spring expands in response to the force. The inventors herein have determined that this phenomenon is magnified when there is slight difference between the absolute values of the spring constants in the positive negative spring series. The magnitude of the interface displacement is inversely proportional to the percent difference between the absolute values of the positive and negative spring constants. Put another way motion amplification K IKI IKI . If for example the percent difference between the spring constant absolute values is 2 with a slightly positive overall spring constant then the displacement at the interface will be 50 times the combined displacement at the ends of the positive negative spring series. The present inventors have also determined that the positive negative spring series which is slightly positive in overall spring constant is relatively unstable. As such stabilization of a positive negative spring series may be required.

Referring more specifically to the configuration of the displacement conversion device in the illustrated embodiment is such that it defines a spring constant K or stiffness in the direction of the second axis A and a spring constant K or stiffness in the direction of the first axis A. Spring constant K is a positive spring constant that stabilizes the motion amplifier that includes positive and negative springs and . Spring constant K is a positive spring constant that defines the stiffness of the damping apparatus in the direction of the vibrational force F. Spring constant K is greater than the effective spring constant of the positive negative spring series K where K KK K K . For example Kmay range from 0.5 K to 0.9 K. Spring constant K on the other hand should be high enough given the expected magnitude of the vibrational force Fassociated with the intended application that the displacement along the first axis A i.e. the displacement distance is minimized but not so high that the displacement is non existent as it is the displacement along the first axis A that is amplified along axis A for damping.

For any particular damping apparatus there is an optimal value for the damping coefficient c of the motion damper i.e. a value that results in the most damping for that system. shows the force versus displacement curves for otherwise identical damping apparatuses with different damping coefficients including the optimum damping coefficient c for that apparatus damping coefficients that are less 0.1 c and 0.01 c and damping coefficients greater 10 c and infinite i.e. high enough that the interface member does not move . The most damping occurs where the area within the associated hysteresis curve is the greatest. also shows that damping apparatus in accordance with the present inventions can be configured or tuned for a particular application. Some applications may for example call for greater stiffness and this can be achieved by increasing the damping coefficient with the understanding that the damping will be less than optimal.

Turning to the exemplary damping apparatus illustrated therein operates in the manner described above and includes structures that are functionally similar to those illustrated in . To that end the exemplary damping apparatus includes a displacement conversion device a motion amplifier with an interface and a motion damper . The displacement conversion device converts and amplifies displacement thereof along the first axis A caused by vibrational force Finto greater displacement and velocity along the second axis A the motion amplifier further amplifies the already amplified displacement and velocity along the second axis A and the twice amplified motion is then damped by the motion damper at the motion amplifier interface .

The exemplary displacement conversion device includes a pair of arcuate members and with inner surfaces and and outer surfaces and which are secured to one another at their longitudinal ends. The arcuate members and function like leaf springs and the length width thickness arc and materials may be selected such that when combined the displacement conversion device will have the desired spring constant K along axis A and spring constant K along axis A . The arcuate members and may be formed from any material or combination of materials e.g. a multi layer composite that is appropriate for the intended application. Suitable materials include but are not limited to plastics metals such as aluminum and steel and composites such as fiber reinforced resin composites. The arcuate members and may also be identical as shown or may be different in one or more aspects such as for example their curvature thickness or material.

In addition to the interface the exemplary motion amplifier includes a positive spring and a negative spring . The exemplary springs and are positioned on the outer surfaces and of the conversion device arcuate members and in the illustrated embodiment. The outer surfaces and support the outer rims of the springs and and include indentations under the springs that allow the springs to compress. The interface mounts the springs and to the arcuate members and and to that end includes a rod and a pair of end caps and that are secured to the rod. The rod extends through the springs and and the arcuate members and and the end caps and engage the springs. So arranged the illustrated interface and springs and are connected in series. i.e. spring interface spring. The rod is also movable relative to the arcuate members and . The connectors between the rod and end caps and may be threaded connectors so that the distance between the end caps and can be adjusted to for example add and or adjust a preload on the springs and . Such preloading is discussed below with reference to . The interface also includes a damper engagement device which may be a flat plate as it is in the illustrated embodiment that is secured to and therefore moves with the rod .

Turning to the motion damper a wide variety of dampers may be employed. Such dampers may include but are not limited to sheets of high damping materials such as rubber silicone and foams e.g. closed cell foams frictional dampers and mechanical apparatus such as shock absorbers and other hydraulic and pneumatic dampers. In the illustrated implementation and although the present inventions are not so limited the motion damper includes a plurality of hollow hourglass shaped machines which are filled with regions of incompressible fluid that are separated from one another by a compressible material or gas bubble. Briefly and referring to the exemplary machines may include a pair of opposing planar walls that are connected by transverse walls which are semi rigid or flexible and have a curved shape. End walls are located at each longitudinal end. The walls and together define a generally hourglass shaped internal space that is filled with one or more volumes of an incompressible fluid e.g. water silicone oil non Newtonian fluids such as shear thinning fluids and shear thickening fluids hydraulic fluid and magneto rheological fluids and one or more volumes of a compressible fluid e.g. air or another inert gas . When the planar walls are subjected to compressive forces the transverse walls may bend and bow inwards into the internal space and the compressible fluid will be compressed to accommodate encroachment of the incompressible fluid . In other implementations the entire internal space may be filled with a gas such as air. Alternatively the entire internal space may be filled with an incompressible fluid and the end walls may be configured to bulge outwardly. Additional information concerning such dampers is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 830 793 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The machines are secured to arcuate member inner surfaces and and to the damper engagement device . As the rod and damper engagement device moves back and forth some of the machines will be in tension and some of the machines will be in compression. As such the machines will not add or subtract to the positive spring constant K. If on the other hand the machines were only located on one side of the damper engagement device then the spring constant of the machines would form part of the positive spring constant K.

The positive and negative springs and are not limited to any particular springs so long as the springs have the requisite positive or negative spring constants. Referring to and although the present inventions are not so limited the exemplary negative spring may be a conical disc with stress relieving cutouts and on the inner and outer diameters. Negative springs of this type are available for example from Associated Spring under the trade name Clover Dome. Positive spring is also a conical disc spring with stress relieving cutouts on the inner and outer diameters in the illustrated embodiment. Positive springs of this type are also available from Associated Spring under the trade name Clover Dome. As illustrated for example in there are some instances where a negative spring will have a negative spring constant over only a portion of its load v. displacement curve. Here the negative spring may be preloaded by for example selecting component dimensions adding a spacer note spacer in and or adjusting the end caps and in such a manner that the negative spring is compressed into the portion of the load v. displacement curve that has a negative slope. It may also be desirable to prevent the negative spring from being compressed beyond the portion of the load v. displacement curve that has a negative slope. This may be accomplished by for example mechanical stops that prevent compression past a particular point or an overall damping apparatus configuration where for the intended application one would not expect displacement beyond the portion of the curve with the negative slope.

In some implementations positive spring and motion damper functionalities may be performed by a common structure. For example fluid fill machines such as those described above with reference to may be used to provide positive spring and motion damper functionalities. One example of a damping apparatus with such an arrangement is generally represented by reference numeral in . Damping apparatus is substantially similar to damping apparatus in form and function and similar elements are represented by similar reference numerals. For example damping apparatus includes a displacement conversion device with a pair of arcuate members and and a motion amplifier with a negative spring a rod and end caps and . Here however the damper engagement device of the interface is not located between the arcuate members and and instead abuts the end cap . A plurality of fluid filled hourglass shaped machines which function as both a positive spring and a damper are located between the arcuate member outer surface and the damper engagement device . In particular and referring to the curved transverse walls function as a positive spring and the compressible fluid functions as a damper. It should also be noted that an annular spacer is located between the negative spring and the arcuate member to support the outer rim of the negative spring away from the arcuate member so that the negative spring can compress.

Another exemplary damping apparatus is generally represented by reference numeral in . Damping apparatus is substantially similar to damping apparatus and damping apparatus in various aspects of their form and function and similar elements are represented by similar reference numerals. For example damping apparatus includes a displacement conversion device a motion amplifier and a motion damper . There is also a plurality of the above described fluid filled machines which have dual positive spring and damping functionality. Here however the displacement conversion device has a half leaf configuration with a planar member and an arcuate member . Such a configuration is better suited for vibration based displacement that tends to bend the damping apparatus in the manner and direction identified by the arrows in . Such bending is about axis A which is perpendicular to both axis A and axis A and results in some displacement in the directions of the first and second axes A and A. The motion amplifier includes positive and negative springs and an interface and creates an amplified displacement as compared to the displacement along axis A at the interface. Here the positive spring is defined by the transverse walls of the machines that are located against and secured to the planar member inner surface and a damper engagement device and the negative spring is carried on the arcuate member outer surface . The exemplary motion amplifier interface has a rod that extends through and is movable relative to the arcuate member a single end cap that secures the negative spring and the damper engagement device that is secured to and therefore moves with the rod . Turning to the motion damper the exemplary motion damper includes a pair of dampers that act directly on the displacement conversion device and are incorporated into K and a damper that acts on the amplified motion associated with the motion amplifier . In the illustrated implementation the dampers and are each defined by the compressible fluid within the machines . Here too the damper engagement device is a flat plate. In those instances where it is desirable to provide a flat surface for the machines in dampers a shim with curved and flat surfaces may be provided.

The present vibration damping apparatus may be incorporated into or used in combination with a wide variety of systems and objects as is described below with reference to . The systems illustrated in are presented for purposes of example only and the present inventions are not limited to such systems and objects.

A structural plate such as the structural plate illustrated in is one example of a vibration damping system that includes a plurality of the present vibration damping apparatuses. The exemplary structural plate includes a plurality of individual vibration damping apparatuses arranged in row and columns i.e. end to end and side to side. Three rows of five damping apparatuses are shown in the illustrated embodiment. Systems with a single or column may also be provided. The damping apparatuses are essentially identical to the damping apparatus in structure and function and similar elements are used to represent similar reference numerals. Here however the displacement conversion device in each apparatus includes ends tabs and where the arcuate members and are connected to one another. The displacement conversion devices are secured adjacent displacement conversion devices. Welding adhesive mechanical fasteners or any other suitable instrumentality may be used to connect the damping apparatuses to one another. In other implementations the arcuate member and or the arcuate member for two more than two or all of the damping apparatuses may be formed from a single piece of material that is sized and shaped so as to define a plurality of arcuate members. Other vibration damping apparatuses such as damping apparatuses and may be employed in a structural plate in place of the damping apparatuses . Also although the exemplary structural plate employs a plurality of identical damping apparatuses other structural plates may employ damping apparatuses that differ in one or more aspects. Also a plurality of structural plates may be combined e.g. into a T shape or an I beam.

A structural tube such as the structural tube illustrated in is another example of a vibration damping system that includes a plurality of the present vibration damping apparatuses. The exemplary structural tube includes a plurality of individual vibration damping apparatuses positioned about the longitudinal axis LA. The first axis A of each damping apparatus is parallel to the longitudinal axis LA. The longitudinal ends of the damping apparatuses are fixed relative to one another and in the illustrated embodiment are secured to anchor rings and . The structural tube is intended to be oriented such that the longitudinal axis LA and the first axes A are parallel to the vibration forces F. Welding adhesive mechanical fasteners or any other suitable instrumentality may be used to connect the damping apparatuses to the anchor rings and . Other vibration damping apparatuses such as damping apparatuses and may be employed in a structural tube in place of the damping apparatuses . Structural tubes may also be formed from columns of vibration damping apparatuses that are secured to one another end to end. Also although the exemplary structural tube employs a plurality of identical damping apparatuses other structural tubes may employ damping apparatuses that differ in one or more aspects. A bicycle seat post is one example of device that may be formed by the structural tube .

A structural tube such as the structural tube illustrated in is another example of a vibration damping system that includes a plurality of the present vibration damping apparatuses. The exemplary structural tube includes a plurality of individual vibration damping apparatuses positioned about the longitudinal axis LA. The first axis A of each damping apparatus is tangential to the longitudinal axis LA. So configured vibrational forces Fthat are perpendicular to the longitudinal axis LA cause displacement along the first axes A of the damping apparatuses . The damping apparatuses are essentially identical to the damping apparatus and similar elements are used to represent similar reference numerals. Here however the displacement conversion devices are relatively long in the direction parallel to the longitudinal axis LA and include relatively long arcuate members and and end tabs and . Each damping apparatus also includes a plurality of motion amplifiers and associated motion dampers . Welding adhesive mechanical fasteners or any other suitable instrumentality may be used to connect the damping apparatuses to one another. Other vibration damping apparatuses such as damping apparatuses and may be employed in a structural tube in place of the damping apparatuses . Also although the exemplary structural tube employs a plurality of identical damping apparatuses other structural tubes may employ damping apparatuses that differ in one or more aspects.

Other examples of vibration damping systems are grid systems such as the isogrid system illustrated in . The exemplary isogrid system includes a plate and a plurality of triangular trusses that are formed from damping apparatuses . So arranged the triangular trusses perform a stiffening function as well as the above described vibration damping function. Vibrational forces acting on the plate are transferred to the longitudinal ends of the damping apparatuses in the direction of axis A by way of the anchor posts that define the corners of the triangular trusses . The damping apparatuses are connected to anchor posts but are not directly connected to the plate . The plate may be part of the structure whose vibrations are being damped and the plate may be planar or curved. By way of example by not limitation a curved plate or a plurality of connected curved plates may define a cylindrical shape so that the structure may be employed in a rocket or other launch vehicle. Although the trusses in the exemplary system are equilateral triangles the present systems are not so limited. Other patterns and arrangements including but not limited to squares octagons and other geometric shapes parallels diagonals and combinations thereof e.g. z shapes may be employed. Other vibration damping apparatuses such as damping apparatuses and may be employed in the grid system in place of the damping apparatuses . Also although the exemplary isogrid system employs a plurality of identical damping apparatuses other systems may employ damping apparatuses that differ in one or more aspects.

Another exemplary grid system is the isogrid system illustrated in . The exemplary isogrid system includes a plate and a plurality of triangular trusses that are formed from damping apparatuses . The damping apparatuses are similar to apparatus in form and function and similar elements are represented by similar reference numerals. For example each damping apparatus includes a displacement conversion device with an arcuate member a motion amplifier with a negative spring a motion damper with a plurality of fluid filled machines that perform the positive spring and damping functions in the manner described above. A damper engagement device is secured to the motion amplifier interface rod not shown . In contrast to damping apparatus however the damping apparatus omits the planar member and is configured to be mounted onto the surface of the underlying structure e.g. the inner surface of the plate . The ends of the arcuate members are secured to the plate by anchor posts that define the corners of the triangular trusses . The plate may be planar or curved. By way of example by not limitation a curved plate or a plurality of connected curved plates may define a cylindrical shape so that the structure may be employed in a rocket or other launch vehicle. The machines are located between the arcuate member and the damper engagement device and between the damper engagement device and the plate . In other implementations the machines will be on only one side of the damper engagement device . Although the trusses in the exemplary system are equilateral triangles the present systems are not so limited. Other patterns and arrangements including but not limited to squares octagons and other geometric shapes parallels diagonals and combinations thereof e.g. z shapes may be employed. Other vibration damping apparatuses such as damping apparatuses and may be employed in the grid system in place of the damping apparatuses . Here the anchor posts would also provide a spacing function to suspend the damping apparatuses relative to the plate . Also although the exemplary isogrid system employs a plurality of identical damping apparatuses other systems may employ damping apparatuses that differ in one or more aspects.

Other examples of vibration damping systems are strut systems such as the strut system in the payload attach fitting or forward adapter illustrated in . The strut system includes a plurality of struts and each strut includes a plurality of damping apparatuses . Other aspects of the payload attach fitting include the payload interface and the spacecraft interface ring which are located at opposite ends of the strut system . The struts are connected to anchors and on the payload interface and spacecraft interface ring . The vehicle fuel tank is also visible in .

Other examples of vibration damping systems are braced frame systems such as the braced frame system illustrated in . The exemplary braced frame system includes horizontal and vertical frame members and and braces . Vibration damping apparatus such as damping apparatus may be positioned in series with the braces e.g. at the longitudinal ends of the braces and or in parallel with the braces e.g. structural plates that are coextensive with braces and or in series or parallel with the frame members and . The damping apparatuses may be configured to dampen low amplitude vibrations before the remainder of the braced frame system acts on large amplitude motions.

Turning to the present vibration damping systems also have application in reinforced concrete shear walls. The exemplary shear wall illustrated in includes a concrete wall mounted on a frame . Structural plates may be embedded within the concrete. The structural plates which may be oriented horizontally vertically or at an angle in between as shown are stiffer than the concrete and therefore attract and damp vibrations.

Another exemplary application is boat hulls. The exemplary boat hull illustrated in incorporates one or more of the present vibration damping apparatus and or systems. To that end the exemplary boat hull consists of an internal network of frames not shown that extend from side to side and that run the length of the boat that are covered by an outer shell e.g. fiberglass or metal . Other boat hulls consist solely of the outer shell. The frames and or shell may be formed from one or more of the above described vibration damping apparatus and or systems. The apparatus and systems illustrated in and are especially applicable to the outer shell of a boat hull.

The exemplary airplane wing illustrated in also incorporates one or more of the present vibration damping apparatus and or systems. The exemplary wing may include an external skin and internal structures not shown such as ribs stringers and spars. The external skin and or the internal structures may be formed from one or more of the above described vibration damping apparatus and or systems. The apparatus and systems illustrated in and are especially applicable to the external skin of an airplane wing.

Although the present inventions have been described in terms of the preferred embodiments above numerous modifications and or additions to the above described preferred embodiments would be readily apparent to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the scope of the present inventions extends to all such modifications and or additions.

