---

title: In-band signaling to indicate end of data stream and update user context
abstract: The disclosure relates to indicating or detecting an end of a stream of data using in-band signaling. An embodiment transmits the stream of data, the stream of data comprising multiple packets, each packet of the multiple packets including a header with a marker bit field and a payload, and configures the marker bit field and/or the payload of at least one packet of the multiple packets to indicate the end of the stream of data, wherein the configuring the payload comprises reducing an amount of data contained in the payload from payloads of other packets of the multiple packets and/or setting a field in the payload indicating a countdown to a last packet of the stream of data. An embodiment receives the stream of data and detects that at least one packet of the multiple packets is configured to indicate the end of the stream of data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08929290&OS=08929290&RS=08929290
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08929290
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120823
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 527 968 entitled IN BAND SIGNALING TO INDICATE END OF DATA STREAM AND UPDATE USER CONTEXT filed Aug. 26 2011 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the invention relate to in band signaling to indicate an end of incoming stream of data for real time or near real time and user context update.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA W CDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In W CDMA wireless communication systems user equipments UEs receive signals from fixed position Node Bs also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Node Bs provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the Node Bs generally interact with UEs through an over the air interface and with the RAN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to Talk PTT capabilities are popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as W CDMA CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints e.g. UEs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Applications which are receiving one or more incoming streams of data e.g. audio video etc need to update a user context when the steam of data ends. Some applications may have real time e.g. minimum latency requirements for the user context update and therefore these applications require precise and instantaneous knowledge regarding when the stream of data ends. Conventionally the end of the stream of data can be inferred after a period of traffic inactivity or can be expressly indicated via the use of out of band signaling e.g. via an END signal . Generally out of band signaling can be delayed and can be complex to implement. Also relying on out of band signaling for indicating the end of a stream of data may leave a gap in time where the END signal arrives either too early or too late which results in the possibility of truncating the stream short e.g. if END signal arrives early or permitting the stream to continue in a starved mode e.g. if END signal arrives late such that RTP packets stop arriving but there is no user context update .

In addition the use of inactivity timers involves updating the user context after a threshold period where no streaming packets associated with the stream of data are received. Inferring the end of a session based on an inactivity timer can be difficult because the inactivity timer must accommodate temporary network disruptions as well as actual stream termination and a single timer value is unlikely to be appropriate for both scenarios.

An embodiment of the disclosure relates to indicating an end of a stream of data using in band signaling. An embodiment transmits the stream of data the stream of data comprising multiple packets each packet of the multiple packets including a header with a marker bit field and a payload configures the marker bit field and or the payload of at least one packet of the multiple packets to indicate the end of the stream of data wherein the marker bit field being set in the at least one packet indicates that the payload of the at least one packet is less than payloads of other packets of the multiple packets and or setting a field in the payload indicating a countdown to a last packet of the stream of data detects at a server out of band signaling indicating the end of the stream of data before detecting the configuring the marker bit field and the payload of the at least one packet wherein the server performs the configuring of the marker bit field and the payload in response to the detecting the out of band signaling transmits the configured at least one packet to at least one target device and in event that no marker bit and no out of band signaling is detected the server generates a packet comprising a new marker bit and transmits the generated packet with the new marker bit to the at least one target device wherein the new marker bit indicates the end of the stream of data.

An embodiment of the disclosure relates to detecting an end of a stream of data using in band signaling. An embodiment receives the stream of data the stream of data comprising multiple packets each packet of the multiple packets including a header with a marker bit field and a payload detects that at least one packet of the multiple packets is configured to indicate the end of the stream of data that the payload of the at least one packet contains an amount of data less than payloads of other packets of the multiple packets and or that the payload of the at least one packet contains a field indicating a countdown to a last packet of the stream of data detects at a server out of band signaling indicating the end of the stream of data before detecting the configuring of the at least one packet wherein the server performs the configuring in response to the detecting the out of band signaling transmits the configured at least one packet to at least one target device and in event that no marker bit and no out of band signaling is detected the server generates a packet comprising a new marker bit and transmits the generated packet with the new marker bit to the at least one target device wherein the new marker bit indicates the end of the data stream.

Further scope of the applicability of the described methods and apparatuses will become apparent from the following detailed description claims and drawings. The detailed description and specific examples while indicating specific examples of the disclosure and claims are given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the description will become apparent to those skilled in the art.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the embodiments will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the embodiments.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the embodiments may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the various embodiments are not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

Generally GPRS is a protocol used by Global System for Mobile communications GSM phones for transmitting Internet Protocol IP packets. The GPRS Core Network e.g. the GGSN and one or more SGSNs is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. access terminals of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the internet as if from one location at the GGSN . This is achieved transferring the subscriber s data from the subscriber s current SGSN to the GGSN which is handling the subscriber s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN acts as an interface between the GPRS backbone network not shown and the external packet data network . The GGSN extracts the packet data with associated packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN to the SGSN which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of the destination UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and his her profile in its location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected UE. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over a Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN communicates with the GGSN via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the embodiment of the Gn between the SGSN and the GGSN carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

Direct Tunnel is an optional function in Iu mode that allows the SGSN to establish a direct user plane tunnel between RAN and GGSN within the Packet Switched PS domain. A direct tunnel capable SGSN such as SGSN in can be configured on a per GGSN and per RNC basis whether or not the SGSN can use a direct user plane connection. The SGSN in handles the control plane signaling and makes the decision when to establish Direct Tunnel. When the Radio Bearer RAB assigned for a PDP context is released i.e. the PDP context is preserved the GTP U tunnel is established between the GGSN and SGSN in order to be able to handle the downlink packets.

The optional Direct Tunnel between the SGSN and GGSN is not typically allowed i in the roaming case e.g. because the SGSN needs to know whether the GGSN is in the same or different PLMN ii where the SGSN has received Customized Applications for Mobile Enhanced Logic CAMEL Subscription Information in the subscriber profile from a Home Location Register HLR and or iii where the GGSN does not support GTP protocol version 1. With respect to the CAMEL restriction if Direct Tunnel is established then volume reporting from SGSN is not possible as the SGSN no longer has visibility of the User Plane. Thus since a CAMEL server can invoke volume reporting at anytime during the life time of a PDP Context the use of Direct Tunnel is prohibited for a subscriber whose profile contains CAMEL Subscription Information.

The SGSN can be operating in a Packet Mobility Management PMM detached state a PMM idle state or a PMM connected state. In an example the GTP connections shown in for Direct Tunnel function can be established whereby the SGSN is in the PMM connected state and receives an Iu connection establishment request from the UE. The SGSN ensures that the new Iu connection and the existing Iu connection are for the same UE and if so the SGSN processes the new request and releases the existing Iu connection and all RABs associated with it. To ensure that the new Iu connection and the existing one are for the same UE the SGSN may perform security functions. If Direct Tunnel was established for the UE the SGSN sends an Update PDP Context Request s to the associated GGSN s to establish the GTP tunnels between the SGSN and GGSN s in case the Iu connection establishment request is for signaling only. The SGSN may immediately establish a new direct tunnel and send Update PDP Context Request s to the associated GGSN s and include the RNC s Address for User Plane a downlink Tunnel Endpoint Identifier TEID for data in case the Iu connection establishment request is for data transfer.

The UE also performs a Routing Area Update RAU procedure immediately upon entering PMM IDLE state when the UE has received a RRC Connection Release message with cause Directed Signaling connection re establishment even if the Routing Area has not changed since the last update. In an example the RNC will send the RRC Connection Release message with cause Directed Signaling Connection re establishment when it the RNC is unable to contact the Serving RNC to validate the UE due to lack of Iur connection e.g. see TS 25.331 52 . The UE performs a subsequent service request procedure after successful completion of the RAU procedure to re establish the radio access bearer when the UE has pending user data to send.

The PDP context is a data structure present on both the SGSN and the GGSN which contains a particular UE s communication session information when the UE has an active GPRS session. When a UE wishes to initiate a GPRS communication session the UE must first attach to the SGSN and then activate a PDP context with the GGSN . This allocates a PDP context data structure in the SGSN that the subscriber is currently visiting and the GGSN serving the UE s access point.

Referring to UEs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and UE is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between UEs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the UEs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions of the In band Signaling Application as disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the various embodiments are not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UE or and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. For example in W CDMA the data communication is typically between the client device Node B s and the RNC . The RNC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the core network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network a SGSN a GGSN and the like thus allowing the UE or access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the various embodiments and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of the embodiments.

Multimedia can be exchanged over any of the above noted communication networks via data packets that use the Real time Transport Protocol RTP . RTP supports a range of multimedia formats such as H.264 MPEG 4 MJPEG MPEG etc. and allows new formats to be added without revising the RTP standard. An example of a header portion of a 40 octet overhead RTP packet may be configured as follows 

Referring to Table 1 the general fields of the RTP packet header portion are well known in the art. After the RTP header portion the RTP packet includes a data payload portion. The data payload portion can include digitized samples of voice and or video. The length of the data payload can vary for different RTP packets. For example in voice RTP packets the length of the voice sample carried by the data payload may correspond to 20 milliseconds ms of sound. Generally for longer media durations e.g. higher rate frames the data payload either has to be longer as well or else the quality of the media sample is reduced.

Generally the RTP sender captures multimedia data e.g. from a user of the RTP sender which is then encoded framed and transmitted as RTP packets with appropriate timestamps and increasing sequence numbers. The RTP packets transmitted by the RTP sender can be conveyed to a target RTP device or RTP receiver via a server arbitrating a session between the RTP sender and receiver or alternatively directly from the RTP sender to the RTP receiver via peer to peer P2P protocols. The RTP receiver receives the RTP packets detects missing packets and may perform reordering of packets. The frames are decoded depending on the payload format and presented to the user of the RTP receiver.

The media stream may optionally go through a server e.g. application server and be buffered and or reordered at the network level. Additionally network reordering in a negative sense may occur e.g. putting the packets out of order due to path delays routing problems network congestion and the like. The network reordering makes it difficult to determine when the real end of the stream occurs. The various embodiments make it easier to detect the real end of the stream. Specifically a marker bit packet that is delivered out of order will get automatically re ordered as part of the de jitter re ordering buffer meaning that it will be outputted processed in the order it was transmitted something that cannot easily be done with out of band signaling.

However regardless if the packets are buffered and or reordered at the network the stream will be received at device B in dejitter buffer and will be buffered and optionally reordered if needed. The frames are then played out at device B and device B is in a state where device A is speaking and has the floor in the PTT context. After frame is played since the marker bit was set in the RTP header of packet device B will be affirmatively notified that the stream has ended. Device B can then immediately note that the floor is now open e.g. available for audio transmission from device B or another device and need not wait for an out of band signaling indication of floor availability from the application server . It will be appreciated that by using the in band signaling the end of the stream and floor state can be updated immediately without delays due to waiting for out of band signaling. However it should be noted that the floor will be open from the local perspective as the server may not yet be informed if it is not monitoring the in band signaling additional discussion on this aspect is provided in the following paragraphs .

In another aspect to address the possibility that packet is dropped and the marker bit is lost and thus the in band end of the stream indicator is also missed a configurable number of RTP packets including the marker bit can be sent to increase the probability that the in band end of stream indicator e.g. marker bit is received. For example the last N RTP packets of the audio transmission can carry the MB with a marker bit set to indicate the end of the audio transmission or stream . In a further example N empty RTP packets i.e. empty of audio payload data can be transmitted after the last substantive RTP packet to ensure that the target device s are aware that device A s user has stopped talking.

In another aspect to address the possibility that packet is dropped and the marker bit is lost and thus the in band end of the stream indicator is also missed the last few packets of the data stream can be configured to count down to the last packet. When the user releases the PTT button there may still be buffered packets at device A . These packets can be configured with a field or byte in the payload or a header extension indicating a countdown to the last packet. For example assuming packets were still buffered at device A when the user releases the PTT button the field in packet could be set to 3 to indicate that there are three more packets in the stream. Alternatively the field in packet could be set to 2 to indicate that there are two more packets before the last packet. Likewise the field in packet could be set to 2 or 1. The field in packet as the last packet could be set to 1 or 0. Alternatively packet may not include a field like packets and but rather have its marker bit set or a special payload as discussed herein. Note that the field in the payload is a field in an audio payload and not a field in a separate end of stream packet s payload.

Because several packets at the end of the stream of data are configured to count down to the last packet as long as the target receives at least one of these packets it will be able to determine which packet is or should be the last. For example assuming device B gives each packet 120 ms to be received if device B receives packet but does not receive packets and within 240 ms it will know that it does not need to keep waiting for a packet because packet was the last packet. It can instead immediately switch to another incoming stream if there is one.

Although has been described in terms of transmitting audio data it will be apparent that device A may additionally or alternatively record and transmit video and or opaque data e.g. x y coordinates of a pointer being moved across the user interface of device A . In such a case frames and of packets and respectively would contain audio video and or opaque data. Opaque data is data that has a hidden representation or format and therefore can only be manipulated by calling subroutines that have access to the representation of the opaque data.

In another aspect device may be transmitting synced audio and video streams. Since the two streams are synced the end of the audio stream can also be determined. Accordingly the end of one or both of the audio and video streams can be marked as in the various embodiments. It is preferable to mark the end of both streams so that if the last packet or last few packets of one stream is lost the end of the other stream and thus the end of the stream with the lost packets is still known. Alternatively only the end of one stream can be marked and the receiver can determine the end of the other stream based on the marked stream.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the above disclosure in band signaling has the potential to indicate a more precise point of time when the stream has truly ended from the receiver s perspective due to the difficulty in syncing out of band signaling with in band media transfers. If not synchronized correctly the out of band signaling may leave a gap in time where the END signal arrives either too early or too late which results in the possibility of truncating the stream short or permitting the stream to continue in a starved mode e.g. RTP packets stop arriving but no user context update . In band signaling alleviates other additional complexity to synchronize the stream with the signaling to a server or other controlling entity. Also the use of in band signaling can convey the end point of a stream of data as soon as the last or near last packet in the stream of data is received and thereby can convey the end of session status faster than a traffic inactivity timer which would only recognize the end of session status a threshold period of time after the last packet in the stream was received.

Referring to an example of in band signaling with two incoming streams is illustrated. Device A may capture media e.g. video audio opaque data etc. that can be streamed in a series of packets. Likewise device B may capture B media e.g. video audio opaque data etc. that can be streamed in a series of packets. Each stream can be received at device C in dejitter buffer A and dejitter buffer B respectively. Each stream has a distinct Synchronization Source SSRC contained in the headers of their respective RTP packets so that device C can identify and distinguish between the streams. Similar to the foregoing discussion stream contains a packet that also contains a marker bit indicating the end of media or a point at which the sending device e.g. device A wants the media to switch. This allows for device C to immediately cutover source to the second stream which is contained in dejitter buffer from the first stream dejitter buffer . This also results in the cutover of media from A media to B media which can be reflected at e.g. a media player display etc. on device C . Accordingly a precise cutover time is provided which cannot be easily achieved using out of band signaling as discussed in the foregoing.

While the foregoing provided some basic examples of the use and implementation of in band signaling to mark and end of stream or stream transmission it will be appreciated that the various embodiments are not limited by the foregoing examples.

For example illustrates a process of terminating an RTP based communication session in accordance with an embodiment that further includes the server interaction with the in band signaling. The process is similar to that disclosed in relation to with media such as audio video or opaque data being streamed from device A to the application server for transmission to device B e.g. packets and in . The PTT button can be released in and a marker bit can be added to the last packet e.g. packet which is then transmitted to the application server . In an alternative example if device A is streaming opaque data such as the x y coordinates of a pointer moving across device A s screen the user s end of session input at i.e. PTT release need not correspond to a PTT release but can correspond to other user input including lifting the pointer such as a finger or a stylus off the screen which can signal device A to add the marker bit to the last packet of opaque data . In the illustrated embodiment of the application server receives the media stream e.g. packets and and then forwards the media stream to the intended target s e.g. device B . At the application server optionally receives and detects the packet with the marker bit. The application server may actively update the context of device A and or the floor status e.g. open . Alternatively the application server may take no action other than detecting the marker bit. The rest of the media is streamed to the target s in . At this point the application server may do nothing and await out of band signaling to confirm the end of media floor release from device A.

Device B is operating in a listen mode since device A has the floor. Upon receiving the streaming media e.g. packets and at device B will play process these in a conventional manner. In contrast when the last packet with the marker bit is received the user context of originating device A and floor status is changed to an open state locally at device B .

Although illustrated only with respect to device B it will be appreciated that there can be multiple target devices and that each may have different latencies such as illustrated in so that coordinating the floor status or other transitions using the in band signaling and a positive acknowledgment of the in band signaling from the targets could enhance system performance and user experience. For example it could prevent a premature grant of the floor to faster devices.

Referring to the media from originating device A is considered to be the same as in so it is not illustrated again. Further the illustration starts with the transmission of the last packet with the marker bit to the various targets e.g. device B to device N . Each device receives the last packet with the marker bit and the user context of originating device A and floor status is changed to an open state . A positive acknowledgment of the floor release floor open from device B is transmitted in to the application server . Then at a later time a positive acknowledgment of the floor release floor open is transmitted from device N. Further in this embodiment the application server can await a positive confirmation from the target s such as illustrated in before designating the floor as being open at the application server . This alternative embodiment is different from the conventional PTT model. In the conventional PTT model the server does not wait until devices receiving streams Ack the end of the stream. However in this alternative embodiment the server doesn t reflect a floor open state until it receives an Ack from each target listener in order to avoid false positives. It will be appreciated that the notion that the floor is open in and is from the device user s perspective. Further it will be appreciated that in the application server optionally evaluated the RTP header fields of the incoming RTP packets from device A so that the application server can recognize the RTP packet from device A with the marker bit set to indicate the end of the stream of data at of . However the application server in is notified of the device A s intent to give up the floor upon receipt of the ACKs at and or in . Thus in it is assumed that the optional operation of from is not performed.

In another aspect the device A may end its media and provide the marker bit to indicate as such. However shortly after device A may want to reacquire the floor to continue. In this scenario if the packet with the marker bit is still buffered at the application server when the request medial from device A is received application server can strip out the marker bit from the buffered packets so there is no change in the floor state perceived by the target devices.

As noted in the foregoing the marker bit was used to describe an affirmative in band signaling to mark the end of the media stream. However it will be appreciated that other mechanisms can be used for in band signaling. For example erasure frames null blank rate frames RTP packet with no payload RTP packet with partial payload and the like can be used as in band signaling to mark the end of the stream. Additionally the in band signaling of the end of the media stream may be indicated by any packet that doesn t conform to a full and audible packet that conforms to the rest of the streams packaging and bundling factor. Further it will be appreciated that combinations of the foregoing can be used e.g. marker bit and RTP packet with no payload . Accordingly the various embodiments are not limited to any specific in band signaling technique.

While the various embodiments are primarily described with respect to one to one communication sessions between UEs devices it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to group communication sessions that can include three or more UEs as evidenced by .

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE Node B etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G 3G etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. SGSN GGSN application server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display . In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touch screen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the display if implemented a touch screen keypad etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to transmit information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

It will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. 

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the various embodiments.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

