---

title: Method and system for measuring an eye
abstract: There is provided a system, apparatus and methods for developing laser systems that can create a precise predetermined capsulotomy. The systems, apparatus and methods further provide laser systems that reduce the patient-to-patient variability and doctor-to-doctor variability associated with hand held apparatus for performing capsulorhexis and capsulotomies. There is further provided a precise predetermined shot pattern and shaped capsulotomy that is based at least in part on the shape of an IOL and in particular an accommodating IOL.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08708491&OS=08708491&RS=08708491
owner: LensAR, Inc.
number: 08708491
owner_city: Orlando
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121119
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 509 454 filed on Jul. 25 2012 pending which claims the benefit of priority of provisional application Ser. No. 61 135 950 filed Jul. 25 2008 the disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference. The present invention relates to methods and systems for applying a laser to the natural human crystalline lens to address cataracts opacifications in the lens clear lens extraction removal of natural lens material use of lens replacement materials and combinations of these. The present invention further relates to methods for determining the shape and position of the natural human crystalline lens and cornea relative to a laser device so as to provide an enhanced method and system for applying a laser to the lens and cornea. The present invention additionally relates to systems and methods that provide predetermined precise and reproducible laser shot patterns for creating a capsulotomy having a predetermined and precise shape that is reproducible from patient to patient and surgeon to surgeon.

In general presbyopia is the loss of accommodative amplitude. In generally cataracts are areas of opacification of the ocular lens which are sufficient to interfere with vision. Other conditions for which the present invention is directed include but are not limited to the opacification of the ocular lens.

Presbyopia most often presents as a near vision deficiency the inability to read small print especially in dim lighting after about 40 45 years of age. Presbyopia or the loss of accommodative amplitude with age relates to the eyes inability to change the shape of the natural crystalline lens which allows a person to change focus between far and near and occurs in essentially 100 of the population. Accommodative amplitude has been shown to decline with age steadily through the fifth decade of life.

Cataracts or the condition when the natural crystalline lens becomes opaque and clouds vision occurs in millions of people per year and are treated effectively with surgical techniques such as ultrasonic phacoemulsification pioneered by Kelman 30 years ago. Although the techniques have been refined over the years safety concerns from ocular trauma especially to the corneal endothelium from the ultrasonic energy required to break up a hardened cataract is undesirable especially for those with a compromised corneal endothelium such as those with Fuchs Dystrophy. Moreover the use of lasers in the treatment of cataracts has a further issue. Cataracts scatter light including laser light and thus can prevent a laser treatment beam from having the desired tissue effect. Moreover the light scattering effect of cataracts and other opacifications can make optically determining the position and shape of the lens difficult. Accordingly as provided in detail in this specification herein improvements in the determination of the lens position and shape as well as in the delivery of lasers to lens tissues including the lens capsule cataractous and opacified tissues are provided.

The established treatment for cataracts is the removal of the opacified human crystalline lens and its replacement with an IOL. In general IOLs consist of a small plastic lens with plastic side struts called haptics to hold the lens in place within the capsular bag inside the eye. Exemplary types of IOLs include monofocal lenses multifocal IOLs which provide the patient with multiple focused vision at far and reading distance and accommodative IOLs which provide the patient with visual accommodation. The flexible nature of many IOLs enables them to be rolled and or folded up for insertion into the capsule. Examples of IOL are found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 188 949 6 849 091 5 699 142 and 5 607 472 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Commercially available IOLs that by way of example may benefit from the present invention are CRYSTALENS and ACRYSOF RESTOR.

A schematic representation of the shape and general structure of an example of an accommodating IOL along the lines of a CRYSTALENS is provided in . This IOL has a lens structure hinges located adjacent to the lens structure and haptics which contact the lens capsule . The overall shape of this IOL would be non geometric. As used herein the term non geometric shape refers to shapes other than circles and ellipses including squares and rectangles. As used herein the term geometric shape refers to circles and ellipses.

The CRYSTALENS IOL was developed by Eyeonics and is presently provided by Bausch Lomb. It is at least in part believed to be disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 849 091. Further information regarding its structure and efficacy is provided by Food and Drug Administration FDA PMA P030002 and related documents to that PMA file. The FDA approved indicated use for CRYSTALENS was in part The Crystalens Model AT 45 Accommodating IOL is intended for primary implantation in the capsular bar of the eye for visual correction of apkakia in adult patients in whom a cataractous lens has been removed and is intended to provide near intermediate and distance vision without spectacles. The Crystalens IOL provides approximately one diopter of monocular accommodation. Nov. 14 2003 PMA P030002 at Part 2 Summary of Safety and Effectiveness Data INDICATIONS FOR USE .

Thus the CRYSTALENS is an example of an FDA approved accommodating IOL. The term FDA approved accommodating IOL refers to any IOL that has obtained FDA approval having an indicated use that provides for accommodation regardless whether such IOL is actually being employed for such an approved use.

The ACRYSOF RESTOR IOL is provided by Alcon. It is at least in part believed to be disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 669 142. Further information regarding its structure and efficacy is provided by FDA PMA P040020 and related documents to that PMA file. The FDA approved use for RESTOR was in part AcrySOF ReSTOR IOLs are indicated for the visual correction of aphakia secondary to removal of a cataractous lens in adult patients with and without presbyopia who desire near intermediate and distance vision with increased spectacle independence. The lens is intended to be placed in the capsular bag. Apr. 24 2004 PMA P040020 at Part 2 Summary of Safety and Effectiveness Data INDICATIONS .

Thus the RESTOR is an example of an FDA approved IOL for near intermediate and distance vision. The term FDA approved IOL for near intermediate and distance vision refers to any IOL that has obtained FDA approval having an indicated use that provides for near intermediate and distance vision regardless whether such IOL is actually being employed for such an approved use. The CRYSTALENS would also be an example of an FDA approved IOL for near intermediate and distance vision. Moreover the RESTOR and CRYSTALENS are examples of FDA approved IOLs that reduce and or eliminate the need for spectacles.

The removal of the opacified natural crystalline lens and replacement with a lens replacement material such as an FDA approved IOL presently employs a capsulorhexis and or a capsulotomy procedure. A capsulorhexis generally consists of the removal of a part of the anterior lens capsule and the creation of a hole or opening in the lens capsule that results from at least in part a tearing action. A capsulotomy generally consists of a cutting of the lens capsule without or with minimum tearing of the capsule. Thus to remove the opacified natural lens material the lens capsule is opened. There are several known techniques for performing a capsulorhexis and a capsulotomy.

One of these capsulorhexis techniques is a can opener approach. This approach uses a small bent needle to make small incisions around the anterior lens capsule to create an opening in the lens through which the lens could be removed. This technique quite often results in the opening in the lens capsule having ragged edges. Another of these techniques is a Continuous Curvilinear Capsulorhexis CCC . CCC uses the same type of bent needle to begin the tear in the anterior lens capsule and then uses this needle and or special forceps which are manually pulled to create a generally circular hole in the lens capsule. CCC in comparison to the can opener approach reduces the ragged edge around the opening in the lens that occurred with using the can opener technique. However CCC does not eliminate the formation of these ragged edges and there presence is dependent upon surgical skill and technique.

The use of a Fugo plasma blade to create the hole in the anterior capsule may also be used. This technique is referred to as a capsulotomy. The Fugo plasma blade is a hand held device and was originally utilized in dentistry. It is an electro magnetic device that focuses its energy on a blunt cutting filament. Information regarding the Fugo plasma blade can be found in FDA PMA K063468 K001498 K041019 and K050933.

To date is it believed that all prior techniques and apparatus and in particular all prior FDA approved apparatus for creating an opening in the anterior capsule of the lens have to varying degrees given rise to irregular shapes ragged edges jagged edges or tags in or along the edge of the opening and or combinations of these edge features. Moreover it is believed that all of these prior techniques and apparatus which are performed by hand in general can only produce cuts or holes in the shape of a circle or an ellipse i.e. they can only be used to provide geometric shapes and cannot be used to provide non geometric shaped cuts. Further because these are hand held devices the shape of these cuts varies from patient to patient and surgeon to surgeon. Thus it is not believed that these hand held devices and non automated techniques can provide the precise predetermined capsulotomy of the present invention.

The presence of the above described edge features the inability to create precise predetermined and reproducible shaped cuts and the variability associated with prior techniques and apparatus for performing capsulotomies and capsulorhexises are individually and collectively undesirable and can present difficulties and problems especially with the use of accommodative IOLs. Furthermore the limited number of shapes for capsulotomies and capsulorhexis and the variability associated with these prior techniques is believed to be an impediment to the development of new accommodative IOLs. It is further believed that this limited number of shapes and variability is an impediment to the amount of accommodation that can be obtained from presently known IOLs and the instances where little to no accommodation is realized by the patient.

It is desirable to develop systems that would reduce or eliminate these undesirable edge features provide greater control in the creation of the opening in the lens capsule and make these improvements patient and surgeon independent or at least reduce the variability from patient to patient and surgeon to surgeon associated with the formation of these undesirable features that is found with the use of present techniques and tools.

The present invention among other things solves this need by providing greater control in the creation of opening in the lens in particular the creation and position of the edge of the hole and the ability to reduce the occurrence of undesirable edge features and do so in a manner that is less surgeon and patient dependent. Thus there is provided herein a system and method to perform precise predetermined capsulotomies.

The novel and improved methods and systems for the performance of a capsulotomy and for measuring and determining lens position and shape which comprise aspects of the present inventions and which are set forth in detail in the present patent specification may provide for better implementation of other methods and systems for delivering laser beams to the lens of the eye such as those disclosed in published applications US 2007 17379A1 US 2007 173795A1 US2007 185475A1 WO 2007 084694 A2 now U.S. Ser. No. 12 217 295 WO 2007 084627A2 now U.S. Ser. No. 12 217 285 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Provided herein are embodiments of the present invention. There is provided a system and a method of making a system for reducing eye to eye and surgeon to surgeon variability in performing procedures to create cuts in the capsule of the lens of the eye. This system comprising a therapeutic laser for producing a therapeutic laser beam an optical path for directing the therapeutic laser beam from the therapeutic laser to the lens of the eye and a control system for at least directing the therapeutic laser beam in a predetermined non geometric shaped shot pattern on a portion of the anterior capsule of the lens of the eye to create a precise predetermined non geometric shaped capsulotomy. This system may further include a shot pattern wherein the predetermined shot pattern comprises at least one essentially straight section wherein the predetermined shot pattern comprises at least two essentially straight sections wherein the predetermined shot pattern comprises a first essentially straight section a second essentially straight section a first curved section and a second curved section or wherein the predetermined shot pattern comprises a first essentially straight section a second essentially straight section a first curved section and a second curved section and the first essentially straight section is connected to the second and third curved sections.

There is also provided system and a method of making such system comprising a therapeutic laser for producing a therapeutic laser beam an optical path for directing the therapeutic laser beam from the therapeutic laser to the lens of the eye and a control system for at least directing the therapeutic laser beam in a predetermined non geometric shaped shot pattern on a portion of the anterior capsule of the lens of the eye to create a precise predetermined non geometric shaped capsulotomy and having a means for determining the apex of the lens of the eye.

There is further provided a system for reducing eye to eye and surgeon to surgeon variability in performing procedures to create cuts in the capsule of the lens of the eye having a therapeutic laser for producing a therapeutic laser beam an optical path for directing the therapeutic laser beam from the therapeutic laser to the lens of the eye a control system for at least directing the therapeutic laser beam in a predetermined non geometric shaped shot pattern on a portion of the anterior capsule of the lens of the eye to create a precise predetermined non geometric shaped capsulotomy and the shot pattern shape being based at least in part on the shape of an IOL.

There is yet further provided shot patterns for the delivery of the laser to the lens of the eye that are based upon shape of an IOL wherein the IOL is an FDA approved accommodating IOL wherein the IOL is an FDA approved IOL for near intermediate and distance vision wherein the IOL is an FDA approved IOL that reduces or eliminates the need for spectacles.

There is additionally provided a system for reducing eye to eye and surgeon to surgeon variability in performing procedures to create cuts in the capsule of the lens of the eye the system comprising a therapeutic laser for producing a therapeutic laser beam an optical path for directing the therapeutic laser beam from the therapeutic laser to the lens of the eye a control system for at least directing the therapeutic laser beam in a predetermined non geometric shaped shot pattern on a portion of the anterior capsule of the lens of the eye to create a precise predetermined non geometric shaped capsulotomy the shot pattern shape being based at least in part on the shape of an IOL the IOL having at least one hinge and the shot pattern essentially following the shape of the IOL.

There is still further provided a system for reducing eye to eye and surgeon to surgeon variability in performing procedures to create cuts in the capsule of the lens of the eye comprising a control system for at least directing the therapeutic laser beam in a shot pattern on a portion of the anterior capsule of the lens of the eye to create a cut in the capsule the shot pattern having an X Y and Z direction component the delivery of the shots in the shot pattern relative to the X Y and Z directional components being delivered in a jigsaw cut having a Z direction sweep and wherein the Z direction sweep is of a magnitude that it substantially reduces the number of missed cuts which reduces eye to eye and surgeon to surgeon variability.

There is also provided a method for making a laser device for creating a precise predetermined capsulotomy said method comprising obtaining a laser device having a therapeutic laser analyzing an IOL to obtain information about the IOL developing a non geometric shaped shot pattern for the delivery of the therapeutic laser to the capsule of the lens of the eye said development being based at least in part upon the information obtained from said analysis and providing the non geometric shot pattern to said laser device. By way of example such providing can be accomplished by supply or downloading a program to the laser controller containing the information regarding the shot pattern.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize based on the teachings set forth in these specifications and drawings that there are various embodiments and implementations of these teachings to practice the present invention. Accordingly the embodiments in this summary are not meant to limit these teachings in any way.

In general the present inventions relates to methods and systems for providing a laser to the natural human crystalline lens to address cataracts opacifications in the lens clear lens extraction removal of natural lens material replacement of that material with replacement material and combinations of these. The present invention further relates to methods for determining the shape and position of the lens so as to provide an enhanced method and system for providing a laser to the natural human crystalline lens for addressing these conditions.

The present invention provides a system and method for determining the location shape and apex of the lens and cornea with respect to the laser device or system and for the use of this determination in performing a capsulotomy and in performing the removal of the clear opacified or cataractous lens material of a natural crystalline lens. Thus in general a laser system i.e. a laser device for treating patients is provided as shown by way of example in . In this system there is provided a treatment laser optics for delivering the laser beam a control system for delivering the laser beam to the lens in a particular pattern which control system is associated with and or interfaces with the other components of the system as shown for example by dashed lines in and or other control systems not shown in .

In general the treatment laser should provide a beam that is of a wavelength that transmits through the cornea aqueous and lens. The beam should be of a short pulse width together with the energy and beam size to produce photodisruption. Thus as used herein the term laser shot or shot refers to a laser beam pulse delivered to a location that results in photodisruption. As used herein the term photodisruption essentially refers to the conversion of matter to a gas by the laser. In particular wavelengths of about 300 to 2000 nm may be employed. Pulse widths from about 1 femtosecond to 100 picoseconds may be employed. Energies from about a 1 nanojoule to 1 millijoule may be employed. The pulse rate also referred to as pulse repetition frequency PRF and pulses per second measured in Hertz may be from about 1 KHz to several GHz. Generally lower pulse rates correspond to higher pulse energy in commercial laser devices. A wide variety of laser types may be used to cause photodisruption of ocular tissues dependent upon pulse width and energy density. Thus examples of such lasers are disclosed in 2007 084694 A2 and WO 2007 084627A2 which are incorporated herein by reference. These and other similar lasers may be used a therapeutic lasers.

In general the optics for delivering the laser beam to the natural lens of the eye should be capable of providing a series of shots to the natural lens in a precise and predetermined pattern in the x y and z dimension. The optics should also provide a predetermined beam spot size to cause photodisruption by the laser pulses delivered to the lens or cornea.

In general the control system for delivering the laser beam may be any computer controller and or software hardware combination that is capable of selecting and controlling x y z scanning parameters and laser firing. These components may typically be associated at least in part with circuit boards that interface to the x y scanner the z focusing device and or the laser. The control system may also but does not necessarily have the further capabilities of controlling the other components of the system as well as maintaining data obtaining data and performing calculations. Thus the control system may contain the programs that direct the laser through one or more laser shot patterns. Similarly the control system may be capable of processing data from the slit scanned laser and camera and or from a separate controller for the slit scanned laser system or camera.

The laser optics for delivering the laser beam comprise a beam expander telescope a z focus mechanism a beam combiner an x y scanner and focusing optics . There is further provided relay optics camera optics which include a zoom and a first ccd camera .

Optical images of the eye and in particular optical images of the natural lens of the eye are conveyed along a path . This path follows the same path as the laser beam from the natural lens through the laser patient interface the focusing optics the x y scanner and the beam combiner . There is further provided a laser patient interface and a structured light source and a structured light camera including a lens.

A structured light source may be a slit illumination having focusing and structured light projection optics such as a Schafter Kirchhoff Laser Macro Line Generator Model 13LTM 90CM Type 13LTM 250S 41 90CM M60 780 5 Y03 C 6 or a StockerYale Model SNF 501L 660 20 5 which is also referred to as a slit scanned laser. In this embodiment the structured illumination source also includes slit scanning means .

When using a scanned slit illumination the operation includes positioning the slit at an acute angle to the crystalloine lens AP axis and to one side of the lens taking an image then maintaining the same angle moving the slit a predetermined distance then taking another image and then repeating this sequence until the entire lens is observed through the series of slit sections. The nominal slit angle can be approximately 15 to 30 degrees from the AP axis. Any visible or near IR wavelength source compatible with the camera may be used. Low coherence length sources are preferable to reduce speckle noise.

The structured light illumination source and the structured light camera are arranged in an angled relationship. The angled relationship may be but is not required to be in the so called Scheimpflug configuration which is well known. The structured light source in conjunction with the slit scanning means projects a line and or a plurality of lines onto the eye lens at an angle or plurality of angles. The light scattered at the eye lens forms the object to be imaged by the lens and focused onto the camera system . Since the slit illuminated image in the eye lens may be at a large angle with respect to the camera this presents a large depth of field to the camera and the entire slit image may not be in sharp focus at the camera. By tilting the camera at an angle or plurality of angles the image along the illuminated plane can be in sharper focus. To the extent that a shaper focus is not obtained arithmetic data evaluation means are further provided herein to determine a more precise location of the illuminated structures with respect to the laser device.

The images from the camera may be conveyed to the controller for processing and further use in the operation of the system. They may also be sent to a separate processor and or controller which in turn communicates with the controller . The structured light source the camera and the slit scanning means comprise a means for determining the position shape and apex of the lens and cornea in relation to the laser system. Alternate means of measuring the position shape and apex of the lens and cornea may be used in lieu of the specific embodiment described herein. Other equivalent biometric methods for measuring the lens and cornea include rotating Scheimpflug configurations such are used in the commercial PENTACAM OCULUS device optical coherence tomography OCT and B scan ultrasound technologies.

In general the present invention provides for the delivery of the laser beam in patterns that utilize or are based at least in part on lens geometry curvature of the lens and or the position and location of the lens and cornea with respect to various apparatus. More specifically the invention could utilize measurements of the radii or curvature center of curvature and apex of the lens and cornea to control the position and orientation of the capsulotomy and the position and shape of the envelope of cuts in the lens nucleus used to fragment the lens for removal. As part of the present invention the concept of matching and or compensating for the curvature and position of the capsule of the lens is provided. Anterior and posterior lens curvatures and lens location measurements can be used in the context of Kuszak aged lens models Burd s eye model Burd et al. Vision Research 42 2002 2235 2251 or on specific lens measurements to determine the position of the capsulotomy and shape of the envelope defining the boundary of cuts within the lens fibrous mass. Thus in general these laser delivery patterns are based in whole and or in part on the mathematical modeling and actual observation data regarding the shape of the lens the position of the lens and or the geometry of the lens.

The delivery of laser shot patterns for the removal of lens material is provided. Three primary activities are provided herein. The first activity involves the anterior surface of the lens capsule. The second activity involves the lens material that is contained within the capsule i.e. the interior structures of the lens such as the cortex and the nucleus and cataractous material contained therein. The third activity involves the use of a lens replacement material including but not limited to IOLs within the lens capsule after interior structures of the lens have been removed.

Thus there are provided novel methods and systems for producing cuts i.e. incisions in the anterior lens capsule. These cuts are created by the therapeutic laser beam being delivered to the anterior lens capsule in precise predetermined and highly reproducible patterns delivery results in precise predetermined and highly reproducible shaped cuts in patterns as described and taught herein or as may be called for by the use of a particular IOL or other device or material to be inserted within the lens capsule. As used herein geometric shaped patterns or cuts refers to circular and elliptical shaped patterns or cuts. As used herein non geometric shaped patterns or cuts refers to all other shapes that are not circular or elliptical.

The methods and systems to create these cuts in the anterior capsule provide superior results to the handheld methods and apparatus previously known for performing capsulorhexus and capsulotomy and thus the methods and systems disclosed herein are considered to be a substantial advancement in these techniques.

In addition the delivery of the laser beam shots in a manner that greatly reduces the risk of a missed cut which depending upon the particular application may be very significant is provided. Moreover as provided in the following examples anterior capsule cuts are envisioned and provided that may be a continuous cuts cuts and lands uncut capsule portions between cuts and perforations. Thus as used herein the terms missed cut or missed cuts refer to a cut that was intended to be carried out by the delivery of a particular laser shot pattern but which did not occur because the laser beam missed the lens capsule or targeted lens material. Thus in a cut and land pattern the lands would not be considered missed cuts if they were intended to be left uncut by the laser pattern.

The cuts in the lens anterior surface are for the purpose of creating an opening in the lens capsule for the removal of the interior structures of the lens. To facilitate this removal there are provided various laser shot patterns that cut the interior structure of the lens into small volumes which volumes can then be removed from the lens capsule. These small volumes can range from about 0.064 mmto about 8 mm. Thus a grid laser shot pattern within the interior structures of the lens which creates cube shaped volumes of interior lens material can be employed. These cubes can range in size from a side having a length of about 0.4 mm to about 2 mm with the characteristic dimension of the cube chosen in part to match the internal diameter of the tip of aspiration probe to be used to remove the lens tissue. Additionally this invention is not limited to the formation of cubes and other volumetric shapes of similar general size may be employed. For example arrangement of other shapes such as triangles and pie sliced volumes may be employed.

The laser cut in the anterior capsule is used to create a small opening in the lens anterior surface of the lens capsule for removal of the sectioned volumes of interior material. Thus this procedure may be used to treat cataracts. This procedure may also be used to remove a lens having opacification that has not progressed to the point of being cataractous. This procedure may further be used to remove a natural lens that is clear but which has lost its ability to accommodate. In all of the above scenarios it being understood that upon removal of the lens material the lens capsule would subsequently house a suitable replacement such as an IOL accommodative IOL or synthetic lens refilling materials. Moreover the size and the shape of the opening is variable and precisely controlled and preferably for presently known lens refilling materials and IOLs is 2 mm or less diameter for lens refilling applications and about 5 mm for IOLs.

The order in which these activities are performed may depend upon the particular characteristics of the internal lens structure the density of the cataract the position of the cataract the type of device used to remove the internal lens material once it has been sectioned into small volumes the type and power of the laser used the amount and size of gas bubbles that are produced by the laser and other factors. Thus although the examples herein provide for an order of performing the activity of cutting the anterior surface of the lens and sectioning the interior structures of the lens it should be recognized that this order can be changed as well as performed essentially simultaneously.

The laser system for treating patients of the present invention is capable of making precise and predetermined cuts in the capsule of the lens thus giving rise to capsulotomies that are of precise and predetermined shapes. Thus there is provided the method of obtaining and analyzing the shape and structure of an IOL and in particular obtaining and analyzing the shape and structure of an accommodating IOL an IOL that reduces and or eliminates the need for spectacles and or an IOL for near intermediate and distance vision including but limited to FDA approved versions of said IOLs. Based upon this analysis an optimized shape and position for the capsulotomy for use with a particular IOL or grouping of similarly shaped IOLs is determined. A predetermined shot pattern for making this optimized shaped capsulotomy is then provided to the laser system preferably by providing the shot pattern to the control system . The laser system can then be used for one or all of the following procedures determining the shape and position of the anterior surface of the lens and in particular the anterior surface of the lens capsule determining the apex of the lens capsule in relation to the laser system performing a laser capsulotomy having the precise and predetermined shape selected for a particular type of IOL and removal of the natural lens material.

Thus for example the shape of a precise capsulotomy and its corresponding shot pattern may consist of essentially straight sides which each side being connected by curved or rounded sections. An example of this type of predetermined cut is illustrated in . Thus there is provided in a lens capsule which x and y axis and respectively shown in this figure for reference purposes. There is further illustrated a predetermined shot pattern having essentially straight sections which are connected by curved sections . The shot pattern of would be an example of a non geometric shaped pattern as that term is used herein. This shot pattern when implemented by the laser system provides a precise predetermined cut in the lens capsule a precise predetermined opening in the lens capsule and a precise predetermined capsulotomy of the shape illustrated in this figure. The essentially straight sections of the predetermined shot pattern may be from about 0.25 mm to about 4.5 mm. As used herein and section of an opening capsulotomy cut or shot pattern that is essentially straight for a length of more that 0.2 mm is considered to be an essentially straight section of a cut or pattern.

The precise and predetermined shot pattern opening capsulotomy and cut may have only a single straight section or it may have two three four five or more. Moreover in addition to essentially straight sections there may be sections in which the radius of curvature is substantially reduced in comparison to other sections of the pattern opening capsulotomy or cut. Thus for example as shown in there is provided a lens capsule which x and y axis and respectively shown in this figure for reference purposes. There is further illustrated a predetermined shot pattern which when implemented by the laser system will create a precise predetermined cut i.e. capsulotomy having two essentially straight sections four curved sections and two section having a substantially increased radius of curvature . Accordingly each essentially straight section is connected to a substantially increased radius of curvature section by a curved section .

Thus there is provided techniques systems and apparatus to deliver laser beam in a shot pattern to the lens of the eye and in particular to the capsule of the lens of the eye in a precise and predetermined manner to provided for a precise predetermined capsulotomy. The shape of these patterns may be delivered using either the jigsaw or ring delivery sequences provided herein.

When performing laser assisted cataract surgery the process of cutting the nucleus with a photodisruption laser can cause a buildup of gas bubbles sufficiently near the soft cortex to allow the gas bubbles to propagate toward the capsule. In those situations where bubbles collect in close proximity to the anterior capsule when the laser attempts to cut the capsulotomy the sudden release of bubbles may change the position of the anterior capsule during the delivery of the laser shot pattern causing the laser to miss the capsule resulting in missed cuts at least partially around the circumference of the capsulotomy. To solve this problem there is provided herein a special cutting pattern that is less dependent of capsule position versus time and provides cutting of the capsule despite position changes of the capsule during the laser capsulotomy procedure. Thus resulting in substantially reduced or no missed cuts.

There is provided herein the use of laser shot patterns having a large range of Z swept at a high rate of speed while the XY position is moved in a circular or elliptical or other pattern or desired shape more slowly so that the laser cutting action occurs multiple times over essentially the same XY position. Thus it could be envisioned that the laser beam is operating like the tip of a jigsaw blade moving up and down rapidly compared to the XY positioning to create the cut shape. In this way if the anterior capsule shifts during the cut due to gas bubble propagation or any other reason the cut will still be made to the capsule albeit perhaps outside the center region of the z direction up down distribution of shots and more to the anterior or posterior ends of that distribution. For laser cutting of the nucleus where a great deal of bubble buildup is created a Z range or up down range of the cut should be approximately 1 mm in extent nominally centered on the anterior capsule which would allow approximately 475 m of capsule movement and still provide cutting of a 25 m thick capsule.

In addition to enabling cutting of a capsule that moves move during the procedure this procedure can be used to compensate for static errors in capsule position due to for example measurement errors. In this way the extent of the Z range may be increased by the known error of the system.

In addition to the large Z range sweeps disclosed herein there is also contemplated the use of a smaller Z range of cut motion for the case where the uncertainty in capsule position from both static measurement error and anticipated change in position might be smaller perhaps in the range of hundreds of m or in the case of highly precise measurement data and near zero movement of the capsule during surgery. In such a case the Z range could be tens of m enough range to cut through the capsule thickness.

The Z range sweep in the capsulotomy shot pattern provides for the ability to optimize laser surgery efficiency in cataract removal procedures. Thus the nucleus of the lens can be sectioned into small volumes before the capsulotomy is performed. In this way any gas bubbles that are formed by the sectioning of the nucleus will be trapped within the capsule. By keeping the gas bubbles inside of the capsule their effect on laser delivery is reduced when compared to their effect if they escape from the capsule and migrate into the aqueous or collect and build up next to the posterior of the cornea. The detrimental effect of shooting the laser beam through a bubble increases as the distance that the beam has to travel after passing through the bubble before reaching its intended point increases. Thus by trapping the bubble in the capsule this distance is keep to an absolute minimum and thus the detrimental effect of shooting through the bubbles is similarly minimized.

The accumulation of bubbles within the capsule however increases the likelihood that the lens and or capsule will shift during the capsulotomy as the bubbles escape through the cuts in the lens capsule. As noted above this shifting could result in missed cuts and an incomplete capsulotomy. Thus the Z range sweep avoids any missed cuts from lens or capsule movement and accordingly provides the synergistic advantages of increased laser efficiency reduced detrimental effect of gas bubbles and reduced missed cuts in the capsulotomy.

Thus there is provided a system and method to optimize laser surgery efficiency in an embodiment of the invention by allowing the nucleus to be cut first and the gas bubbles formed from such cutting contained within the capsule until the capsulotomy is performed. The containing of the gas bubbles within the capsule avoids having to shoot through bubbles in the anterior chamber caused but creating the capsulotomy first. This solution however can lead to the accumulation of bubbles inside the fibrous mass of the lens which may cause the capsule to move during capsulotomy. To address this potential movement the invention further provides for the varying z direction movement of the laser beam. However it is also understood that one case where the uncertainty of capsule movement is small is the case where the capsulotomy is laser cut prior to the cutting of the nucleus material and no bubbles have been placed in the lens. In this case if the uncertainty in position is sufficiently small that the extent of the z range is sufficiently small that only a superficial amount of bubbles may be present in the anterior chamber which may not interfere with laser cutting of the nucleus. It should further be understood that when referring to a sequence of cutting structures such as described in this paragraph that a step the order of sequence is defined by when a substantial majority of the cuts are performed in the one structure before another structure i.e. the placement of a few laser shots in an other structures during delivery of the shot pattern to the first structure will not prevent the first structure from being considered the first structure in the sequence.

A further embodiment of the present systems and methods is to define a high accuracy position measurement of the anterior capsule so as to provide in general greater accuracy precisions and reproducibility from patient to patient for the capsulotomy. Thus there is provided a method applying slit technology with new and innovative methods to determine the apex of the lens of the eye with respect to the therapeutic laser device and thus providing accurate measurements and relative position determinations for performing procedures on the lens of the eye.

Thus turning to there is provided a series of drawings showing the use of the laser structured light source projection onto the lens of a human eye through a glass plate. shows the general configuration of the glass plate and lens. show the path of the light from the slit lamp to the glass plate and the lens and the return paths of light beams from the glass plate and the lens as the location of the slit lamp s impingement on the glass plate and the lens is changed. Like components in have like numbers thus for example glass plate and are the same

In there is provided a glass plate positioned in relation to a human lens having an X axis a Y axis and a Z axis . The glass plate has a thickness of 1.57 mm and an index of refraction of 1.57.

In is a top view of the glass plate not seen and lens of . In there is provided an X axis a Y axis an XY plane and a Z axis . In this figure light beams from a slit lamp are directed through the XY plane to the glass plate and lens . The light travels back from the glass plate and lens providing an image of the glass plate and applanated cornea beams of light from the bottom of the glass plate by bottom is it meant the side of the glass plate closest to the lens beams of light from the anterior surface of the lens and a line based upon the beams which represents the curvature of the lens at the point where the light illuminates it. is a view of the same system and light paths but from below the XY plane . Again like numbers correspond to like components thus beam is the same as beam .

In general the RANSAC algorithm as employed herein is based upon a number of algorithm parameters that are chosen to keep the level of probability of convergence of the fit to the circle fit parameters reasonably high. The approach is iterative wherein each iteration is used to refine the selection of which pixels inliers are best used to determine the parameters of the fit circle and which should be excluded outliers and to at the same time refine the best fit parameters based on the pixels selected in the latest iteration. Thus a model was fitted to the initial hypothetical inliers to make an initial estimate of the parameters of the fit circle i.e. shape and position of the lens from observed data. Based on the initial parameter estimates all other data points pixels are checked to see how far they fall from the fitted model and the set of inliers and outliers is adjusted. The model was then re estimated from all adjusted inliers. The model is evaluated by estimating a parameter related to the total magnitude of error of the inliers relative to the model. This procedure was repeated and the precision of the estimate is refined at each iteration

Thus by photographing the light scattered by lens structures from a laser slit beam positioned sequentially to a series of different slit locations and applying a RANSAC algorithm and or a RANSAC algorithm and a least squares non liner regression with a sphere fit to the data obtained from each of those series of illuminations a detained image of the shape and position of the lens relative to the laser device can be obtained. In the current embodiment the shape and position of the anterior lens capsule is characterized by the estimation of the radius and center of curvature. Using this information the position of the apex of the lens relative to the laser device and in particular the therapeutic laser can be determined for use in positioning and orienting the capsulotomy. Though not shown here an exactly analogous method as described above for the anterior lens capsule can be used to determine the center and radius curvature of the anterior cornea. Since the center of curvature of the lens and cornea are known in most cases to fall close to the visual axis of the eye these two points define a line which intersects the anterior lens capsule at or near the visual axis and position of the intersection can be used to center the capsulotomy cut at or near the visual axis as is generally desired for best optical outcome.

Having both the shape position and apex of the lens provides the ability to greatly increase the accuracy and reproducibility of the capsulotomy. Determining the apex and shape of the lens relative to the laser device enables the use of a shot pattern for the capsulotomy that minimizes the number of shots that must be anterior to the anterior lens capsule to make certain that the capsulotomy is completed and the capsule portion can be readily removed. Thus referring for example to the height of the ring pattern cut i.e. the Z direction size above the capsule can be reduced which may have benefits in reducing the formation of bubble in the aqueous.

A further optimization of the method and system to enhance flexibility regarding the aspiration of lens material from the lens capsule is provided. In sectioning the lens material it is possible that the some of the cut fragments of the fibrous mass may escape the capsular bag either by floating or because of gas bubbles or just naturally unless means of preventing such escape are provided. Therefore another aspect of the present method and system is to provide a means to restrain these fragments until they are ready to be aspirated out. Such a means is provided by performing only a partial cut of the capsule leaving the capsule flap attached to serve as a restraint preventing and or reducing the escape of sectioned lens material. Once aspiration is called for the partial cut to the capsule can be completed i.e. the capsulotomy is completed and the section lens material aspirated out of the lens capsule.

In all of the laser shot patterns provided herein it is preferred that the laser shot patterns generally follow the shape of the lens and placement of individual shots with respect to adjacent shots in the pattern are sufficiently close enough to each other such that when the pattern is complete a sufficiently continuous layer and or line and or volume of lens material has been removed. Shot spacing of lesser or greater distances are contemplated herein and including overlap as necessary to obtain the desired results. Shot spacing considerations include gas bubble dissipation volume removal efficiency sequencing efficiency scanner performance and cleaving efficiency among others. For example by way of illustration for a 5 m size spot with an energy sufficient to cause photodisruption a spacing of 20 m or greater results in individual gas bubbles which are not coalesced and dissipate more quickly than with close shot spaces with the same energy which result in gas bubble coalescence. As the shot spacing gets closer together volume efficiency increases. As shot spacing gets closer together bubble coalescence also increases. Further there comes a point where the shot spacing becomes so close that volume efficiency dramatically decreases. For example by way of illustration for a 450 femtosecond pulse width and 2 microjoules energy and about a 5 m spot size with a 10 m separation results in cleaving of transparent ocular tissue. As used herein the term cleaving means to substantially separate the tissue. Moreover the forgoing shot spacing considerations are interrelated to a lesser or greater extent and one of skill in the art will know how to evaluate these conditions based upon the teachings of the present disclosure to accomplish the objectives herein. Finally it is contemplated that the placement of individual shots with respect to adjacent shots in the pattern may in general be such that they are as close as possible typically limited by the size and time frame of photodisruption physics which would include among other things gas bubble expansion of the previous shot. As used herein the time frame of photodisruptive physics referrers to the effects that take place surrounding photodisruption such as plasma formation and expansion shock waive propagation and gas bubble expansion and contraction. Thus the timing of sequential pulses such that they are timed faster than some of elements of or all of those effects can increase volumetric removal and or cleaving efficiency. Accordingly we propose using pulse repetition frequencies from 5 KHz to 1 MHz. which could be accomplished by a laser with the following parameters a mode lock laser of cavity length from 3 meters to 3 cm. Such high PRF lasers can more easily produce multiple pulses overlapping a location allowing for a lower energy per pulse to achieve photodisruption.

The terms first second third etc. as used herein are relative terms and must be viewed in the context in which they are used. They do not relate to timing unless specifically referred to as such. Thus a first cut may be made after a second cut. In general it is preferred to fire laser shots in general from posterior points in the laser pattern to anterior points to avoid and or minimize the effect of the gas bubbles resulting from prior laser shots. However because of the varied laser shot patterns that are provided herein it is not a requirement that a strict posterior to anterior shot sequence be followed. Moreover in the case of cataracts it may be advantageous to shoot from anterior to posterior because of the inability of the laser to penetrate substantially beyond the cataract.

Thus there is provided a method for the structural modification of the lens material to make it easier to remove while potentially increasing the safety of the procedure by reducing and or eliminating the need to use high frequency ultrasonic energy used in Phaco emulsification. In general the use of photodisruption cutting in a specific shape patterns is utilized to create sectioned lens material i.e. to carve up the lens material into sectioned volumetric shapes such as the tiny cube like structures shown in which are small enough to be aspirated away with 1 to 2 mm sized aspiration needles.

As illustrated in there is provided a shot pattern to create 0.5 mm sized cubes out of the lens material. Thus there is provided an outer lens surface which is formed by the lens capsule and thus an outer shape of the lens. There is further provided a shot pattern that creates grid like cuts the end of which cuts essentially follows the shape of the lens. There may be further provided one shell cut which is integral with the grid like cuts. The sequence of laser shots in the pattern in may be executed from posterior to anterior as in most of the patterns disclosed herein to obtain more predictable results by reducing the variation caused by shooting through gas bubbles. However it may be desirable to shoot cataracts from the anterior to the posterior for the purpose of choosing the lesser of two undesirable effects. Thus it may be advantageous to shoot through the gas bubbles or let them dissipate rather then shooting through cataractus tissue which much more severely scatters the light and more quickly prevents photodisruption compared to gas bubble interference. Accordingly it is proposed to photodisrupt the most anterior sections of the cataract first then move posteriorally shooting through gas bubble remnants of cataractous tissue to the next layer of cataract tissue below. In addition to shooting the laser in anterior z planes then moving posterior it is further provided to essentially drill down anterior to posterior which we call the z axis throughout this document and then move in x y and drill down again. The shot pattern of may also be applied to a clear lens and that lens material is subsequently removed. It is desirable when dealing with a clear lens that shooting from posterior to anterior is utilized.

The creation of capsulotomy for the surgeon to access the lens to remove the lens material is illustrated in . In these figures there is provided an outer surface which surface is formed by the lens capsule and thus an outer shape of the lens. There is further provided a ring shaped band cut and shot pattern. This shot pattern is provided by placing the laser beam in a series of tightly placed shots around the ring and then continuing that sequence as the depth of the ring is increased. Thus in general the shot will be distributed entirely around the ring at a particular depth before moving to a deeper depth. Thus the figure shows the cross section view of this ring shaped annular band and accordingly provides for two sides of the ring. The ring shaped capsulotomy cuts of 100 m deep approximately centered on the apex as determined by the above referenced method of the anterior lens capsule surface and precisely 5 mm in diameter. The diameter of the capsulotomy can be varied between about 0.1 mm to about 9 mm diameter.

Since the lens capsule is approximately 5 to 15 m thick it is desirable for the depth of the cut to be typically between 5 and several hundred um although there is not much penalty for cutting several millimeters. With greater precision regarding the location and shape of the lens and lens apex the thickness of the band and in particular the amount of the band that is above the lens capsule and in the aqueous can be reduced. The shape of the capsulotomy can be elliptical with the x axis different then the y axis or other shapes. Thus the shape of the capsulotomy can be any shape that provides a benefit for a particular IOL for example the shape of the capsulotomy can be circular or elliptical geometric shapes or can be square rectangular or other non geometric shapes. The shape will be based at least in part upon and be determined at least in part by the aspects of IOLs and in particular accommodating IOLs and IOLs that reduce and or eliminate the need for spectacles. A particular IOL such as FDA approved IOLs discussed herein may benefit from and or may require a particular capsulotomy shape and opening smoothness.

A jigsaw delivery sequence or pattern for performing a precision capsulotomy is further provided herein. As illustrated in there is provided an outer surface which surface is formed by the lens capsule and thus an outer shape of the lens. is a cross section of the lens with an X axis and a Z axis . is a top view of the lens down the Z axis and has X axis and Y axis . There is further provided a jigsaw cut and shot pattern in the shape of a circle on the plane of the X axis and the Y axis when viewed down the Z axis . The laser shot pattern is delivered in a series of tightly spaced vertical sweeps over the same XY point of the pattern. Thus the Z position will change many times relative to the change in XY position as the shots are delivered. This rapidly changing Z position relative to the XY position is referred to as the vertical sweep of pattern and the range of this sweep is shown by arrow . A particular IOL such as FDA approved IOLs discussed herein may benefit from and or may require a particular capsulotomy shape and opening smoothness.

As illustrated in there is provided an outer surface which surface is formed by the lens capsule and thus an outer shape of the lens. is a cross section of the lens with an X axis and a Z axis . is a top view of the lens down the Z axis and has X axis and Y axis . There is further provided a jigsaw cut and shot pattern in the shape of an ellipse on the plane of the X axis and the Y axis when viewed down the Z axis . The laser shot pattern is delivered in a series of tightly spaced vertical sweeps over the same XY point of the pattern. Thus the Z position will change many times relative to the change in XY position as the shots are delivered. This rapidly changing Z position relative to the XY position is referred to as the vertical sweep of pattern and the range of this sweep is shown by arrow . A particular IOL such as FDA approved IOLs discussed herein may benefit from and or may require a particular capsulotomy shape and opening smoothness.

The combination of the patterns and types of cuts provided herein can be interchanged and other shapes of patterns and position relative the XY center of the lens may be employed. Moreover Because there is a greater likelihood for a missed laser shot with the band cut i.e. the ring delivery sequence or pattern such as shown in than the jigsaw sequence the use of the technique to determine the location apex and shape of the lens is important but not as critical as when the ring sequence is being employed.

In there is provided an image of a reference glass plate the posterior surface of the reference glass plate and the applanated cornea . There is further provided the lens anterior capsule and the lens posterior capsule .

In there is provided an image of a curved corneal interface and the un applanated cornea as well as a reference glass . There is further provided the lens anterior surface and the lens posterior surface .

Thus as show in by way of example the present invention provides a novel means for determining the lens anterior and posterior capsule radii and centers of curvature.

From the foregoing description one skilled in the art can readily ascertain the essential characteristics of this invention and without departing from the spirit and scope thereof can make various changes and or modifications of the invention to adapt it to various usages and conditions.

