---

title: Expansion card controller for controlling a radio system
abstract: An expansion card and method for controlling a radio system integrates PCDD operations into a PCMCIA or ExpressCard which can be inserted into an external display, smart screen PCMCIA slot, or laptop ExpressCard or PCMCIA slot to allow an operator to control the radio system with a computer without any modification of the computer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08782315&OS=08782315&RS=08782315
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08782315
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120504
---
The invention claimed in this patent application was made with U.S. Government support under contract no. DAAB07 02 C C403 awarded by the Defense Contract Management Agency. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 484 414 filed on 10 May 2011 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The invention relates to radio systems and more particularly to a device and method for controlling radio systems.

Ground Mobile Radio GMR radios are controlled by Portable Control Display Devices PCDD . However these are not usable in certain platforms where either the PCDD screen or the operator s environment is too small. These platforms have ruggedized laptops Smart Screens or other mission computers which are used for platform control. Size weight and power SWAP versus performance requirements impose significant demands on devices for field applications. Vehicle electronics have SWAP limitations and impose additional shock and vibration demands.

Balancing ruggedization requirements with common interfaces security and the desire to use commercial off the shelf COTS technology has proven difficult. Reliability demands also require operation at extreme temperature humidity and vibration environmental parameters.

According to embodiments of the present invention the Portable Control Display Device PCDD hardware software and security features are built into an expansion card such as a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA card or ExpressCard which can be inserted into the laptop or Smart Screen PCMCIA or ExpressCard slot and allow the operator to control a GMR radio with an existing computer without additional modification.

An embodiment provides an expansion card device for controlling a radio system comprising a substrate an expansion controller card interface connector on the substrate for insertion in a radio controller an encryption Crypto Ignition Key CIK interface component on the substrate a zeroize control component on the substrate an Ethernet interface component on the substrate an Ethernet magnetics component on the substrate in communication with the Ethernet interface component an Ethernet transceiver component on the substrate interfaced with the Ethernet magnetics component a server and interface microprocessor component on the substrate in communication with the expansion card interface connector a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA on the substrate a multiplexer on the FPGA a multiplexer expansion card interface connector interface component within the FPGA in communication with the multiplexer and the server and interface microprocessor component a zeroize control interface component within the FPGA in communication with the zeroize control component and the multiplexer and a multiplexer Ethernet interface component within the FPGA in communication with the Ethernet transceiver component and the multiplexer. Additional embodiments provide an expansion card device for controlling a radio system comprising a substrate an expansion controller card interface connector on the substrate for insertion in a radio controller an encryption Crypto Ignition Key CIK interface component on the substrate a Red Switch Processor RSP Acknowledgement button on the substrate a zeroize control component on the substrate an Ethernet interface component on the substrate an Ethernet magnetics component on the substrate in communication with the Ethernet interface component an Ethernet transceiver component on the substrate interfaced with the Ethernet magnetics component an Inter Integrated Circuit I2C microcontroller I2C C component on the substrate in communication with the Crypto Ignition key interface component a server and interface microprocessor component on the substrate in communication with the expansion card interface connector a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA on the substrate a multiplexer on the FPGA a multiplexer expansion card interface connector interface component within the FPGA in communication with the multiplexer and the server and interface microprocessor component a response control RSP interface component within the FPGA in communication with the response control component and the multiplexer a zeroize control interface component within the FPGA in communication with the zeroize control component and the multiplexer an I2C C interface component within the FPGA in communication with the I2C C component and the multiplexer a multiplexer Ethernet interface component within the FPGA in communication with the Ethernet transceiver component and the multiplexer whereby separation of hardware functionality embodied in the RSP acknowledgement the zeroize switch and the multiplexer provides all security for the radio system. In another embodiment the expansion controller card interface connector is a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA connector and the server and interface microprocessor component is a PCMCIA interface. In continuing embodiments the expansion controller card interface connector is an ExpressCard connector and the server and interface microprocessor component is an ExpressCard interface. In still other embodiments the radio controller receiving the expansion controller card is a Panasonic Toughbook 31. For subsequent embodiments the radio controller receiving the expansion controller card is a General Dynamics SDU11 3. In ongoing embodiments the Ethernet transceiver comprises a Phyter DP83848. For a further embodiment the I2C microcontroller comprises a Freescale MC9S08. In following embodiments the CIK comprises a Datakey IIT series serial memory token interface. For additional embodiments the expansion controller card provides required hardware and software necessary to control a ground mobile radio GMR . Other embodiments include a Red Switch Processor RSP Acknowledgement button on the substrate an Inter Integrated Circuit I2C microcontroller I2C C component on the substrate in communication with the Crypto Ignition key interface component a Red Switch Policy response control RSP interface component within the FPGA in communication with the response control component and the multiplexer and an I2C C interface component within the FPGA in communication with the I2C C component and the multiplexer whereby separation of hardware functionality embodied in the RSP acknowledgement the zeroize switch and the multiplexer provides all security for the radio system. In still further embodiments the radio controller comprises a laptop computer. For yet other embodiments the radio controller comprises a tablet computer. Still other embodiments include that the radio controller comprises a personal digital assistant PDA . In continuing embodiments the radio controller comprises at least one ground mobile radio GMR platform computer. For another given embodiment the radio system comprises air ground and sea platforms. In another embodiment the multiplexer comprises a ground mobile radio GMR High Assurance Multiplexer HAMUX . In embodiments the CIK is connected to internal components by a 2 wire interface or a serial interface or similar interface.

Other embodiments provide a method for controlling a radio system comprising the steps of providing at least one expansion controller card configuring the card for a receiving device inserting the card into expansion card slot of the device inserting a Crypto Ignition Key CIK into the card connecting the card to an Ethernet connection on a Ground Mobile Radio GMR initiating a browser instance on the device defining a radio configuration on the device by the card selecting radio operating parameters for the configuration and operating the radio controlled by the card and the device. In continuing embodiments the step of providing comprises selecting a type of the expansion controller card from a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and an ExpressCard interface. Still other embodiments comprise controlling at least one ground mobile radio GMR platform computer. Another embodiment further comprises providing a CIK for the card. In yet another embodiment the step of inserting the expansion controller card provides required hardware and software necessary to control the GMR radio.

Further embodiments provide a radio system for a ground mobile radio GMR platform computer comprising an expansion card device for controlling the radio system comprising a substrate an expansion controller card interface connector on the substrate for insertion in a radio controller a Datakey IIT series serial memory token Crypto Ignition Key CIK interface component on the substrate a Red Switch Policy RSP Acknowledgement button control component on the substrate a zeroize control component on the substrate an Ethernet interface component on the substrate an Ethernet magnetics component on the substrate in communication with the Ethernet interface component a Phyter DP83848 Ethernet transceiver component on the substrate interfaced with the Ethernet magnetics component a Freescale MC9S08 Inter Integrated Circuit I2C microcontroller I2C C component on the substrate in communication with the encryption key interface component a server and interface microprocessor component on the substrate in communication with the expansion card interface connector a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA on the substrate a multiplexer on the FPGA a multiplexer expansion card interface connector interface component within the FPGA in communication with the multiplexer and the server and interface microprocessor component a Red Switch Policy control RSP interface component within the FPGA in communication with the response control component and the multiplexer a zeroize control interface component within the FPGA in communication with the zeroize control component and the multiplexer an I2C C interface component within the FPGA in communication with the I2C C component and the multiplexer a multiplexer Ethernet interface component within the FPGA in communication with the Ethernet transceiver component and the multiplexer whereby separation of hardware functionality embodied in the RSP acknowledgement the zeroize switch and the multiplexer provides all security for the radio system.

The features and advantages described herein are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the inventive subject matter.

The following detailed description provides example embodiments of the presently claimed invention with references to the accompanying drawings. The description is intended to be illustrative and not limiting the scope of the present invention. Embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to practice the subject invention. Other embodiments may be practiced with some variations without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject invention.

Embodiments of the invention comprise PCMCIA ExpressCard hereafter called expansion card versions of the controller interface card which is part of the Ground Mobile Radio GMR Portable Control Display Device PCDD . PCDD examples include the Talla Tech R PDA 57. In embodiments the GMR PCDD is the controller for the GMR radio and is used with every radio in the system. There are several platforms Abrams Stryker etc. where even the small dimensions of a PCDD a PDA sized device cannot fit. Many of these platforms are outfitted with General Dynamics Smart Display Unit SDU SDU11 3 which has a PCMCIA interface or a laptop such as the Panasonic Toughbook 31 which has an ExpessCard interface . Insertion of the controller card into the expansion slot of the mission computer provides the hardware and software necessary to control a GMR radio. The mission computer only needs to contain a standard Internet browser. For embodiments the separation of the hardware functionality embodied in the Red Switch Policy RSP Acknowledgement switch and zeroize switch and multiplexer meets all security requirements presently levied on the PCDD in GMR. In GMR embodiments the multiplexer is a High Assurance Multiplexer HAMUX . The Red Switch Acknowledgement embodiment is part of the GMR radio Red Switch which supports the Defense Red Switch Network DRSN . While embodiments are disclosed for the above configurations embodiments of the controller work in any computer with an expansion slot.

The method of this invention allows calibration to be accomplished with reduced time and cost improved repeatability and with support for periodic updates.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. Each and every page of this submission and all contents thereon however characterized identified or numbered is considered a substantive part of this application for all purposes irrespective of form or placement within the application. This specification is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure.

