---

title: Anti-cancer compounds targeting Ral GTPases and methods of using the same
abstract: The invention provides methods of inhibiting the growth or metastasis of a cancer in a mammal by inhibiting a Ral GTPase in the mammal. The invention also provides small molecule inhibitors of Ral GTPases useful in the methods of the invention and pharmaceutical compositions containing the therapeutically effective compounds of the invention, and methods of using the same.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09353121&OS=09353121&RS=09353121
owner: 
number: 09353121
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20121221
---
This invention was made with Government support under grant numbers CA075115 CA104106 and CA143971 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

This application is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application No. PCT US2012 071341 having an international filing date of Dec. 21 2012 which designated the United States which PCT application claimed the benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 61 578 869 filed Dec. 21 2011 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The invention relates to therapeutic compounds pharmaceutical compositions containing the same and their use in the prevention or treatment of cancer.

Ras is mutated in cancer more frequently than any other oncogene. Hence Ras has been a focus for the development of rationally designed anti cancer drugs yet to date none have been successfully developed. In 1989 several groups showed that posttranslational modification of Ras proteins by farnesyl lipids is essential for Ras membrane association and transformation. Farnesyltransferase FTase was then purified and characterized and shortly thereafter a second prenyltransferase geranylgeranyltransferase type I GGTase I that modifies Ras with a geranylgeranyl lipid was discovered. GGTase I inhibitors GGTIs were studied and at least one such inhibitor GGTI 2417 has been shown to inhibit the in vitro growth and survival of the MiaPaCa2 pancreatic cell line. But these inhibitory effects were modest and no clinical trials with GGTIs have followed.

RalA and RalB are paralogs in the family of Ras monomeric G proteins that have approximately 85 amino acid identity and play a role in the regulation of endocytosis exocytosis actin cytoskeletal dynamics and transcription. Like Ras Ral proteins have also been implicated in tumorigenesis and metastasis. Ral GTPases may be activated in a Ras dependent manner via several guanidine nucleotide exchange factors including RalGDS. Activation of the Ral pathway has been shown to be a requirement for transformation of human cells Rangarajan A Hong S J Gifford A Weinberg R A. . Cancer Cell 2004 6 171 83 Hamad N M Elconin J H Kamoub A E et al. . Genes Dev 2002 16 2045 57 and Ras mediated transformation depends on activation of RalA Lim K H Baines A T Fiordalisi J J et al. . Cancer Cell 2005 7 533 45 . RalA and RalB also play a role in the transcriptional regulation of CD24 a metastasis associated gene in bladder and other cancers Smith S C Oxford G Wu Z et al. 24 . Cancer Res 2006 66 1917 22 .

Thus Ral GTPases present a compelling therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of solid tumors and the metastasis of these cancers and there exists a need for effective methods of inhibiting Ral GTPases for the treatment and prevention of cancer.

The present invention provides molecules that can inhibit Ral GTPases as well as therapeutic uses of these molecules to prevent or slow the growth and metastasis of cancer in a mammal.

The present inventors have used novel computational algorithms to identify a pocket in the RalA protein crystal structure that is located far from the nucleotide binding site and that is present in the GDP inactive but not GTP active conformation of the protein. A threaded 3D model of RalB based on that of RalA RalB has not been crystallized was used to show that this pocket was common to both RalA and RalB paralogs such that small molecule binding to this allosteric site traps RalA or RalB in their inactive conformation. Computational screening of 500 000 chemical entities identified 88 high stringency candidates that dock into this pocket.

An unbiased screen with the GDP loaded RalB protein using a 92 167 member encoded bead based combinatorial library identified 11 compounds that bound to inactive RalB. Computational determination of putative docking sites of these compounds yielded a single site present in both Ral paralogs identical to the pocket found by computational screening using the RalA structure.

Hence these two complementary approaches used by the present inventors identified a similar target site present in both paralogs that is distinct from the nucleotide binding pocket in these proteins. These analyses identified Ral GTPase inhibitors that disrupt Ral protein binding with Ral associated proteins exo84 sec5 and RalBP1. The identified Ral GTPase inhibitors

can be used to block the associated conformational change of RalA upon GTP binding thus preventing effector engagement and downstream signaling. These inhibitors bind in Ral protein pockets located away from the nucleotide binding cavity that is located in the active site of the enzyme. Additionally other Ral binding proteins that bind with Ral through other binding sites on the Ral protein including proteins such as filamin A PLD1 and ZONAB may be prevented from binding with Ral in the presence of the identified inhibitor compounds of this invention.

Compounds were evaluated in vitro for their efficacy in inhibiting the growth of human cancer cells and particularly cancers of the bladder pancreas prostate colon skin and lung leading to the therapeutic methods of the present invention.

Thus the present invention provides compounds that can inhibit Ral GTPases. The invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions containing these compounds. The invention also provides methods of using these compounds and pharmaceutical compositions to treat or prevent cancer.

One embodiment is a compound of the invention having Ral GTPase inhibitory activity and having the following chemical structure Formula 1 

R Rare independently including when X Y or Z are C selected from hydrogen halogen OH O R C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Cdienyl C Ctrienyl C Ctetraenyl C Caryl substituted C Caryl C C alkoxy carboxy cyano C Calkanoyloxy C Calkylthio C Calkylsulfonyl C Calkoxycarbonyl C Calkanoylamino S R SO R NHSORand NHCOR and 

Ris phenyl or naphthyl optionally substituted with one to three groups selected from C Calkyl C Caryl C Calkoxy halogen and C Chydroxyheteroaryl wherein the heteroatoms are selected from the group consisting of sulfur nitrogen and oxygen.

Another embodiment is a compound of the invention having Ral GTPase inhibitory activity and having the structure 

R R R R R R Rare independently including when B M or D are carbon selected from hydrogen halogen OH O R C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Cdienyl C Ctrienyl C Ctetraenyl C Caryl substituted C Caryl C C alkoxy carboxy cyano C Calkanoyloxy C Calkylthio C Calkylsulfonyl C Calkoxycarbonyl C Calkanoylamino S R SO R NHSORand NHCOR and 

Ris phenyl or naphthyl substituted with one to three groups selected from C C alkyl C Caryl C Calkoxy and halogen and C Chydroxyheteroaryl wherein the heteroatoms are selected from the sulfur nitrogen and oxygen.

Another embodiment is a compound of the invention having Ral GTPase inhibitory activity and having a structure selected from 

One embodiment of the invention is a method of treating a cancer by administering to a mammal in need of such treatment a therapeutically effective amount of a compound that inhibits Ral GTPase enzymatic activity. In one aspect of this embodiment the compound inhibits at least one paralog of Ral GTPAse either RalA or RalB thereby inhibiting the growth or metastasis of a cancer. In a preferred aspect of this embodiment the compound inhibits both RalA and RalB paralogs. In another aspect of this embodiment the compound is at least one of the compounds of the invention that also include any one of the chemical structures 

In a specific embodiment of these methods of treating or preventing a cancer in a mammal the compound is administered to the mammal within a pharmaceutical composition of the invention.

Thus another aspect of the invention is a pharmaceutical composition containing one or more of the compounds of the invention with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of preventing or treating metastatic cancers particularly metastatic pancreas prostate lung bladder skin and or colon cancers by administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one compound of the invention to a mammal in need of such treatment or suspected of having a cancer or a metastasis of a cancer.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating cancer by administering a therapeutically effective combination of at least one of the compounds of the invention and one or more other known anti cancer or anti inflammatory treatments. For example other anti cancer treatments may include prenyltransferase inhibitors including geranylgeranyltransferase type I GGTase I inhibitors surgery chemotherapy radiation immunotherapy or combinations thereof.

Also provided herein are methods for the prevention treatment or prophylaxis of cancer in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof therapeutically effective amounts of any of the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention.

Also provided herein are methods for preventing the metastasis of a cancer in a mammal comprising administering to the mammal therapeutically effective amounts of at least one compound of the invention including for example pharmaceutical compositions containing at least one compound of the invention.

Also provided herein are pharmaceutical packages comprising therapeutically effective amounts of at least one compound of the invention within a pharmaceutical composition. The pharmaceutical compositions may be administered separately simultaneously or sequentially with other compounds or therapies used in the prevention treatment or amelioration of cancer in a mammal. These packages may also include prescribing information and or a container. If present the prescribing information may describe the administration and or use of these pharmaceutical compositions alone or in combination with other therapies used in the prevention treatment or amelioration of cancer in a mammal.

Another embodiment of this invention is a method of testing the susceptibility of a mammal having lung cancer to treatment with a putative inhibitor of Ral GTPase activity by testing the mammal for a response to administration of the putative inhibitor indicative of growth inhibition or reduction in cancer cell number or tumor volume in the mammal.

Other aspects of the invention will be set forth in the accompanying description of embodiments which follows and will be apparent from the description or may be learned by the practice of the invention. However it should be understood that the following description of embodiments is given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art and are encompassed within the scope of this invention.

Based on their compelling clinical significance in tumor establishment and metastasis the present inventors have identified and used Ral GTPases as molecular targets. As with all GTPases activity of Ral is dependent upon cycling between an inactive GDP bound and an active GTP bound conformation. Active Ral proteins mediate downstream processes through their own set of effectors including Ral Binding Protein 1 RalBP1 RLIP76 or RIP1 37 Sec5 Exo85 filamin and phospholipase D1. Thus compounds that bind Ral GDP and not Ral GTP may be used to sterically inhibit effector binding and or block conformational changes associated with the GTP bound state leading to blockade of signal transmission with consequent decreased growth and apoptosis of Ral dependent cancer cells. These compounds were identified by parallel use of virtual and physical screening of combinatorial chemical libraries.

Computational approaches developed by the inventors were used to analyze the three dimensional structure of RalA to identify potential sites that can be exploited to selectively inhibit RalA protein interactions with effector proteins. These analyses included the use of RalA GDP and RalA GTP in complex with exo84 and sec5. The potential protein binding sites are characterized by crevasses and depressions present in Ral GDP but not in Ral GTP that are sufficiently large to accommodate a molecule that can in turn be used to block the associated conformational change of RalA upon GTP binding thus preventing effector engagement and downstream signaling. These pockets are located away from the nucleotide binding cavity that is located in the active site of the enzyme.

Computational screening of commercially available compound libraries was used to identify small molecules that dock in these allosteric protein pockets. To do so RalA GDP was set up for docking and the ChemDiv library v2006.5 including 500 000 compounds but excluding those possessing reactive groups known ADME toxicity or physicochemical properties that lie outside drug likeness parameters Lipinski s rule of 5 and Veber s Rule of 2 at pH 7 was downloaded from the ZINC database Irwin J J Shoichet B K. . J Chem Inf Model 2005 45 177 82 and docked onto the identified allosteric sites. Ligand molecules were assigned Gasteiger charges and polar hydrogen atoms by the ligand preparation module provided in the AutoDockTools. AutoDock4 was used to evaluate ligand binding energies over the conformational search space using the Lamarckian genetic algorithm. The top 88 compounds ranked using methods developed for accurate prediction of free binding energy were selected for evaluation.

Because the crystal structure of RalB is not defined the inventors screened GDP loaded RalB protein against a 92 167 member encoded bead based library. The screen was performed as a direct binding assay of FLAG RalB at 500 nM to pools of beads. Each pool contained multiple copies of encoded immobilized compounds. A visible blue color developed upon FLAG RalB binding by an ELISA with mouse anti FLAG goat anti mouse alkaline phosphatase conjugate and the precipitating substrate BCIP. Blue beads were physically separated and decoded by mass spectroscopy. This search resulted in the identification of eleven compounds for further evaluation.

The inventors constructed the 3D structure of RalB using threading algorithms from the known RalA crystal structure Nicely N I Kosak J de Serrano V Mattos C. . Structure Camb 2004 12 2025 36 . In silico molecular modeling of the identified theoretical low energy binding pockets was used to identify combinatorial hits on the surface of the simulated RalB. Surprisingly the hits identified using this approach were bound to the same homologous pocket on RalA that was identified by the computational modeling approach. Thus the two different approaches to model the RalA and RalB paralogs identified an identical molecular target site present in both proteins which is distinct from the nucleotide GDP binding site.

Based on this in silico modeling putative Ral inhibitors were designed and purchased or synthesized where necessary. Functional characterization was then used to evaluate putative GTPase inhibitors in living cells. Two complementary screens were developed to determine which of the 99 compounds that likely bound to the molecular target site would block Ral activity. Both assays were cell based to assure that any observed functional effects required drug penetration into a living cell.

The biochemical secondary screen was an ELISA based on the canonical principle of binding of the activated GTP bound forms of either RalA or RalB to RalBP1. The ELISA assay was adapted from the widely used Ral activation pull down assays Oxford G Owens C R Titus B J et al. . Cancer Res 2005 65 7111 20 . A recombinant GST His6 RalBP1 fusion protein purified from bacteria by GST affinity and then adsorbed via a His6 tag directly onto metal chelate derivatized 96 well microplates was used in conjunction with stably transfected UMUC3 cell lines expressing either FLAG RalA or FLAG RalB. The ectopic protein functions as a reporter for Ral activation and the FLAG tag allows highly sensitive and specific detection of the protein. No commercial antibodies for either RalA or RalB were suitable as detection reagents in the ELISA format so the inventors resorted to stable expression of FLAG Ral in UMUC3. Robust signal to noise ratio 100 1 was possible using anti FLAG primary antibody and HRP conjugated anti mouse secondary antibody with signal proportional to input protein from 0.3 up to 10 mcg of total cell lysate. This permits use of lysates from cells cultured in 96 well microplates where enough total cell protein can be recovered for analysis.

The functional secondary screen was based on the mediation of lipid raft trafficking by RalA when cells are re plated. Thus blocking RalA siRNA depletion or dominant negative inhibits the spread of normal anchorage dependent murine embryo fibroblasts MEF on fibronectin coated cover slips. Importantly Cav1 MEFSs are resistant to RalA depletion and hence these cells and their wild type counterparts were used to screen the putative Ral GTPase inhibitors identified in silico.

Compounds that showed activity in the computational and combinatorial screens as well as the ELISA and cell spreading assays were selected for dose response evaluation. Successful candidate compounds were found to have IC50 s in the ELISA and cell spreading assay in the 1 2 M range and successfully bound to RalB. Successful compounds were further evaluated in vitro using human cancer cells lines and their pharmacokinetics were evaluated in vivo using a mouse model.

Hence the present invention provides Ral GTPase inhibiting compounds. These compounds can disrupt Ral protein binding with Ral associated proteins exo84 sec5 and RalBP1. The identified Ral GTPase inhibitors can be used to block the associated conformational change of Ral proteins upon GTP binding thus preventing effector engagement and downstream signaling. These inhibitors may also disrupt Ral protein binding to proteins that bind with Ral through other binding sites on the Ral protein including proteins such as filamin A PLD1 and ZONAB.

Thus the present invention also provides methods of inhibiting the growth and or metastasis of cancer in a mammal by inhibiting a Ral GTPase in the mammal. In a preferred embodiment the Ral GTPase is at least one of the RalA and the RalB paralogs.

In another aspect the invention is a method of inhibiting the growth and or metastasis of cancer in a mammal by administering at least one compound of the invention or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof to the mammal.

The term paralog is used to denote genes in an organism that have been duplicated to occupy different positions in the same genome.

As used herein the term compound means a chemical or biological molecule such as a simple or complex organic molecule a peptide a protein or an oligonucleotide.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable is employed herein to refer to those compounds materials compositions and or dosage forms which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity irritation allergic response or other problem or complication commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable salts refer to derivatives of the disclosed compounds wherein the parent compound is modified by making acid or base salts thereof. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include but are not limited to mineral or organic acid salts of basic residues such as amines or alkali or organic salts of acidic residues such as carboxylic acids. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the conventional non toxic salts or the quaternary ammonium salts of the parent compound formed for example from non toxic inorganic or organic acids. Such conventional nontoxic salts include those derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric sulfamic phosphoric nitric and the like and the salts prepared from organic acids such as acetic propionic succinic glycolic stearic lactic malic tartaric citric ascorbic pamoic maleic hydroxymaleic phenylacetic glutamic benzoic salicylic sulfanilic 2 acetoxybenzoic fumaric toluenesulfonic methanesulfonic ethane disulfonic oxalic isethionic and the like. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are those forms of compounds suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity irritation allergic response or other problems or complications commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salt forms of compounds provided herein are synthesized from the compounds of the invention which contain a basic or acidic moiety by conventional chemical methods. Generally such salts are for example prepared by reacting the free acid or base forms of these compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base or acid in water or in an organic solvent or in a mixture of the two generally nonaqueous media like ether ethyl acetate ethanol isopropanol or acetonitrile are preferred. Lists of suitable salts are found in at page 1418 of Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 17th ed. Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 1985.

The term therapeutically effective amount or therapeutic amount of a compound of this invention means an amount effective to inhibit the formation or progression of cancer following administration to a mammal having a cancer.

The term solvate refers to the compound formed by the interaction of a solvent and a compound. Suitable solvates are pharmaceutically acceptable solvates such as hydrates including monohydrates and hemi hydrates.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that compounds of the invention having a chiral center may exist in and may be isolated in optically active and racemic forms. It is to be understood that the compounds of the present invention encompasses any racemic optically active regioisomeric or stereoisomeric form or mixtures thereof which possess the therapeutically useful properties described herein. Where the compounds of the invention have at least one chiral center they may exist as enantiomers. Where the compounds possess two or more chiral centers they may additionally exist as diastereomers. Where the processes for the preparation of the compounds according to the invention give rise to mixtures of stereoisomers these isomers may be separated by conventional techniques such as preparative chromatography. The compounds may be prepared in racemic form or as individual enantiomers or diasteromers by either stereospecific synthesis or by resolution. The compounds may for example be resolved into their component enantiomers or diasteromers by standard techniques such as the formation of stereoisomeric pairs by salt formation with an optically active acid such as di p toluoyl D tartaric acid and or di p toluoyl L tartaric acid followed by fractional crystallization and regeneration of the free base. The compounds may also be resolved by formation of stereoisomeric esters or amides followed by chromatographic separation and removal of the chiral auxiliary. Alternatively the compounds may be resolved using a chiral HPLC column. It is to be understood that all stereoisomers racemic mixtures diastereomers and enantiomers thereof are encompassed within the scope of the present invention.

It is well known in the art how to prepare optically active forms for example by resolution of the racemic form by recrystallization techniques by synthesis from optically active starting materials by chiral synthesis or by chromatographic separation using a chiral stationary phase . It is also to be understood that the scope of this invention encompasses not only the various isomers which may exist but also the various mixtures of isomers which may be formed. The resolution of the compounds of the present invention their starting materials and or the intermediates may be carried out by known procedures e.g. as described in the four volume compendium Optical Resolution Procedures for Chemical Compounds Optical Resolution Information Center Manhattan College Riverdale N.Y. and in Enantiomers Racemates and Resolutions Jean Jacques Andre Collet and Samuel H. Wilen John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1981 which is incorporated in its entirety by this reference. Basically the resolution of the compounds is based on the differences in the physical properties of diastereomers by attachment either chemically or enzymatically of an enantiomerically pure moiety resulting in forms that are separable by fractional crystallization distillation or chromatography.

The compounds used in making the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be purchased commercially. The compounds of the present invention including the salts of these compounds may also be prepared in ways well known to those skilled in the art of organic synthesis. The compounds of the invention may be prepared using the reactions performed in solvents appropriate to the reagents and materials employed and suitable for the transformation being effected. It is understood by one skilled in the art of organic synthesis that the functionality present on various portions of the molecule must be compatible with the reagents and reactions proposed. Such restrictions to the substituents which are compatible with the reaction conditions will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art and alternate methods must then be used.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention contain one or more compounds of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier which are media generally accepted in the art for the delivery of biologically active agents to animals in particular mammals. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are formulated according to a number of factors well within the purview of those of ordinary skill in the art to determine and accommodate. These include without limitation the type and nature of the active agent being formulated the subject to which the agent containing composition is to be administered the intended route of administration of the composition and the therapeutic indication being targeted. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include both aqueous and non aqueous liquid media as well as a variety of solid and semi solid dosage forms. Such carriers can include a number of different ingredients and additives in addition to the active agent such additional ingredients being included in the formulation for a variety of reasons e.g. stabilization of the active agent well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Descriptions of suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and factors involved in their selection are found in a variety of readily available sources such as Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 17th ed. Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 1985.

This invention further provides methods of treating a mammal afflicted with a cancer or preventing the metastasis of such cancer in a mammal which includes administering to the mammal a pharmaceutical composition provided herein. Such compositions generally comprise a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention in an amount effective to prevent ameliorate lessen or inhibit the cancer. Such amounts typically comprise from about 0.1 to about 100 mg of the compound per kilogram of body weight of the mammal to which the composition is administered. Therapeutically effective amounts can be administered according to any dosing regimen satisfactory to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Administration may be for example by various parenteral means. Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for parenteral administration include various aqueous media such as aqueous dextrose and saline solutions glycol solutions are also useful carriers and preferably contain a water soluble salt of the active ingredient suitable stabilizing agents and if necessary buffering agents. Antioxidizing agents such as sodium bisulfite sodium sulfite or ascorbic acid either alone or in combination are suitable stabilizing agents also used are citric acid and its salts and EDTA. In addition parenteral solutions can contain preservatives such as benzalkonium chloride methyl or propyl paraben and chlorobutanol.

Alternatively compositions can be administered orally in solid dosage forms such as capsules tablets and powders or in liquid forms such as elixirs syrups and or suspensions. Gelatin capsules can be used to contain the active ingredient and a suitable carrier such as but not limited to lactose starch magnesium stearate stearic acid or cellulose derivatives. Similar diluents can be used to make compressed tablets. Both tablets and capsules can be manufactured as sustained release products to provide for continuous release of medication over a period of time. Compressed tablets can be sugar coated or film coated to mask any unpleasant taste or used to protect the active ingredients from the atmosphere or to allow selective disintegration of the tablet in the gastrointestinal tract.

A preferred formulation of the invention is a mono phasic pharmaceutical composition suitable for parenteral or oral administration for the prevention treatment or prophylaxis of a cancer consisting essentially of a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Examples of suitable aqueous and nonaqueous carriers which may be employed in the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention include water ethanol polyols such as glycerol propylene glycol polyethylene glycol and the like and suitable mixtures thereof vegetable oils such as olive oil and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of coating materials such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions and by the use of surfactants.

These compositions may also contain adjuvants such as wetting agents emulsifying agents and dispersing agents. It may also be desirable to include isotonic agents such as sugars sodium chloride and the like in the compositions. In addition prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form may be brought about by the inclusion of agents which delay absorption such as aluminum monosterate and gelatin.

In some cases in order to prolong the effect of a drug it is desirable to slow the absorption of the drug from subcutaneous or intramuscular injection. This may be accomplished by the use of a liquid suspension of crystalline or amorphous material having poor water solubility. The rate of absorption of the drug then depends upon its rate of dissolution which in turn may depend upon crystal size and crystalline form. Alternatively delayed absorption of a parenterally administered drug is accomplished by dissolving or suspending the drug in an oil vehicle.

Injectable depot forms are made by forming microencapsulated matrices of the drug in biodegradable polymers such as polylactide polyglycolide. Depending on the ratio of drug to polymer and the nature of the particular polymer employed the rate of drug release can be controlled. Examples of other biodegradable polymers include poly orthoesters and poly anhydrides . Depot injectable formulations are also prepared by entrapping the drug in liposomes or microemulsions which are compatible with body tissue. The injectable materials can be sterilized for example by filtration through a bacterial retaining filter.

For preparing solid compositions such as tablets the principal active ingredient is mixed with a pharmaceutical excipient to form a solid preformulation composition containing a homogeneous mixture of a compound of the present invention. When referring to these preformulation compositions as homogeneous it is meant that the active ingredient is dispersed evenly throughout the composition so that the composition may be readily subdivided into equally effective unit dosage forms such as tablets pills and capsules. This solid preformulation is then subdivided into unit dosage forms of the type described above containing from for example 0.1 to about 500 mg of the therapeutic compounds of the present invention.

Formulations of the invention suitable for oral administration may be in the form of capsules cachets pills tablets powders granules or as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous or non aqueous liquid or an oil in water or water in oil liquid emulsions or as an elixir or syrup or as pastilles using an inert base such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and the like each containing a predetermined amount of a compound or compounds of the present invention as an active ingredient. A compound or compounds of the present invention may also be administered as bolus electuary or paste.

In solid dosage forms of the invention for oral administration capsules tablets pills dragees powders granules and the like the active ingredient is mixed with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers such as sodium citrate or dicalcium phosphate and or any of the following 1 fillers or extenders such as starches lactose sucrose glucose mannitol and or silicic acid 2 binders such as for example carboxymethylcellulose alginates gelatin polyvinyl pyrrolidone sucrose and or acacia 3 humectants such as glycerol 4 disintegrating agents such as agar agar calcium carbonate potato or tapioca starch alginic acid certain silicates and sodium carbonate 5 solution retarding agents such as paraffin 6 absorption accelerators such as quaternary ammonium compounds 7 wetting agents such as for example cetyl alcohol and glycerol monosterate 8 absorbents such as kaolin and bentonite clay 9 lubricants such as talc calcium stearate magnesium stearate solid polyethylene glycols sodium lauryl sulfate and mixtures thereof and 10 coloring agents. In the case of capsules tablets and pills the pharmaceutical compositions may also comprise buffering agents. Solid compositions of a similar type may be employed as fillers in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugars as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols and the like.

A tablet may be made by compression or molding optionally with one or more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared using binder for example gelatin or hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose lubricant inert diluent preservative disintegrant for example sodium starch glycolate or cross linked sodium carboxymethyl cellulose surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound moistened with an inert liquid diluent.

The tablets and other solid dosage forms of the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention such as dragees capsules pills and granules may optionally be scored or prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. They may also be formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therein using for example hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose in varying proportions to provide the desired release profile other polymer matrices liposomes and or microspheres. They may be sterilized by for example filtration through a bacteria retaining filter. These compositions may also optionally contain opacifying agents and may be of a composition that they release the active ingredient only or preferentially in a certain portion of the gastrointestinal tract optionally in a delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions which can be used include polymeric substances and waxes. The active ingredient can also be in microencapsulated form.

The tablets or pills of the present invention may be coated or otherwise compounded to provide a dosage form affording the advantage of prolonged action. For example the tablet or pill can comprise an inner dosage and an outer dosage component the latter being in the form of an envelope over the former. The two components can be separated by an enteric layer which serves to resist disintegration in the stomach and permit the inner component to pass intact into the duodenum or to be delayed in release. A variety of materials can be used for such enteric layers or coatings such materials including a number of polymeric acids and mixtures of polymeric acids with such materials as shellac cetyl alcohol and cellulose acetate.

Liquid dosage forms for oral administration of the compounds of the invention include pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions microemulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs. In addition to the active ingredient the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the art such as for example water or other solvents solubilizing agents and emulsifiers such as ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol ethyl carbonate ethyl acetate benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate propylene glycol 1 3 butylene glycol oils in particular cottonseed groundnut corn germ olive castor and sesame oils glycerol tetrahydrofuryl alcohol polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan and mixtures thereof.

Besides inert diluents the oral compositions can also include adjuvants such as wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents sweetening flavoring coloring perfuming and preservative agents.

Suspensions in addition to the active compounds may contain suspending agents as for example ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols polyoxyethylene sorbitol and sorbitan esters microcrystalline cellulose aluminum metahydroxide bentonite agar agar and tragacanth and mixtures thereof.

Formulations of the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention for rectal or vaginal administration may be presented as a suppository which may be prepared by mixing one or more compounds of the invention with one or more suitable nonirritating excipients or carriers comprising for example cocoa butter polyethylene glycol a suppository wax or salicylate and which is solid at room temperature but liquid at body temperature and therefore will melt in the rectum or vaginal cavity and release the active compound. Formulations of the present invention which are suitable for vaginal administration also include pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

Dosage forms for the topical or transdermal administration of compounds of this invention include powders sprays ointments pastes creams lotions gels solutions patches drops and inhalants. The active ingredient may be mixed under sterile conditions with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and with any buffers or propellants which may be required.

The ointments pastes creams and gels may contain in addition to an active ingredient excipients such as animal and vegetable fats oils waxes paraffins starch tragacanth cellulose derivatives polyethylene glycols silicones bentonites silicic acid talc and zinc oxide or mixtures thereof.

Powders and sprays can contain in addition to an active ingredient excipients such as lactose talc silicic acid aluminum hydroxide calcium silicates and polyamide powder or mixtures of these substances. Sprays can additionally contain customary propellants such as chlorofluorohydrocarbons and volatile unsubstituted hydrocarbons such as butane and propane.

Transdermal patches have the added advantage of providing controlled delivery of compounds of the invention to the body. Such dosage forms can be made by dissolving dispersing or otherwise incorporating one or more compounds of the invention in a proper medium such as an elastomeric matrix material. Absorption enhancers can also be used to increase the flux of the compound across the skin. The rate of such flux can be controlled by either providing a rate controlling membrane or dispersing the compound in a polymer matrix or gel.

Pharmaceutical formulations include those suitable for administration by inhalation or insufflation or for nasal or intraocular administration. For administration to the upper nasal or lower respiratory tract by inhalation the compounds of the invention are conveniently delivered from an insufflator nebulizer or a pressurized pack or other convenient means of delivering an aerosol spray. Pressurized packs may comprise a suitable propellant such as dichlorodifluoromethane trichlorofluoromethane dichlorotetrafluoroethane carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit may be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount.

Alternatively for administration by inhalation or insufflation the composition may take the form of a dry powder for example a powder mix of one or more of the anti cancer compounds of the invention and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch. The powder composition may be presented in unit dosage form in for example capsules or cartridges or e.g. gelatin or blister packs from which the powder may be administered with the aid of an inhalator insufflator or a metered dose inhaler.

For intranasal administration compounds of the invention may be administered by means of nose drops or a liquid spray such as by means of a plastic bottle atomizer or metered dose inhaler. Typical of atomizers are the Mistometer Wintrop and Medihaler Riker .

Drops such as eye drops or nose drops may be formulated with an aqueous or nonaqueous base also comprising one or more dispersing agents solubilizing agents or suspending agents. Liquid sprays are conveniently delivered from pressurized packs. Drops can be delivered by means of a simple eye dropper capped bottle or by means of a plastic bottle adapted to deliver liquid contents dropwise by means of a specially shaped closure.

The formulations may be presented in unit dose or multi dose sealed containers for example ampules and vials and may be stored in a lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions may be prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the type described above.

The dosage formulations provided by this invention may contain the therapeutic compounds of the invention either alone or in combination with other therapeutically active ingredients and pharmaceutically acceptable inert excipients. The term pharmaceutically acceptable inert excipients includes at least one of diluents binders lubricants glidants coloring agents and release modifying polymers.

Suitable antioxidants may be selected from amongst one or more pharmaceutically acceptable antioxidants known in the art. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable antioxidants include butylated hydroxyanisole BHA sodium ascorbate butylated hydroxytoluene BHT sodium sulfite citric acid malic acid and ascorbic acid. The antioxidants may be present in the dosage formulations of the present invention at a concentration between about 0.001 to about 5 by weight of the dosage formulation.

Suitable chelating agents may be selected from amongst one or more chelating agents known in the art. Examples of suitable chelating agents include disodium edetate EDTA edetic acid citric acid and combinations thereof. The chelating agents may be present in a concentration between about 0.001 and about 5 by weight of the dosage formulation.

The dosage form may include one or more diluents such as lactose sugar cornstarch modified cornstarch mannitol sorbitol and or cellulose derivatives such as wood cellulose and microcrystalline cellulose typically in an amount within the range of from about 20 to about 80 by weight.

The dosage form may include one or more binders in an amount of up to about 60 w w. Examples of suitable binders include methyl cellulose hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose polyvinyl pyrrolidone eudragits ethyl cellulose gelatin gum arabic polyvinyl alcohol pullulan carbomer pregelatinized starch agar tragacanth sodium alginate microcrystalline cellulose and the like.

Examples of suitable disintegrants include sodium starch glycolate croscarmellose sodium crospovidone low substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose and the like. The concentration may vary from 0.1 to 15 by weight of the dosage form.

Examples of lubricants glidants include colloidal silicon dioxide stearic acid magnesium stearate calcium stearate talc hydrogenated castor oil sucrose esters of fatty acid microcrystalline wax yellow beeswax white beeswax and the like. The concentration may vary from 0.1 to 15 by weight of the dosage form.

Release modifying polymers may be used to form extended release formulations containing the therapeutic compounds of the invention. The release modifying polymers may be either water soluble polymers or water insoluble polymers. Examples of water soluble polymers include polyvinylpyrrolidone hydroxy propylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose vinyl acetate copolymers polyethylene oxide polysaccharides such as alginate xanthan gum etc. methylcellulose and mixtures thereof. Examples of water insoluble polymers include acrylates such as methacrylates acrylic acid copolymers cellulose derivatives such as ethylcellulose or cellulose acetate polyethylene and high molecular weight polyvinyl alcohols.

Also encompassed by the present invention are methods for screening potential therapeutic agents that may prevent treat or inhibit the metastasis of lung cancer by inhibiting a Ral GTPase comprising a combining a Ral GTPase and a potential therapeutic compound under conditions in which they interact and b monitoring the enzymatic activity of the Ral GTPase wherein a potential therapeutic compound is selected for further study when it inhibits the enzymatic activity compared to a control sample to which no potential therapeutic compound has been added. In one embodiment the potential therapeutic compound is selected from the group consisting of a pharmaceutical agent a cytokine a small molecule drug a cell permeable small molecule drug a hormone a combination of interleukins a lectin a bispecific antibody and a peptide mimetic.

One embodiment of the invention relates to a compound of the invention for use in the treatment or prevention of cancer or a metastasis of a cancer in a mammal. A related embodiment of the invention relates to a composition of the invention for use in the treatment or prevention of cancer or a metastasis of a cancer in a mammal.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to the use of any of the compounds or compositions of the invention in the preparation of a medicament for the inhibition of the growth or metastasis of a cancer in a mammal.

The following examples are provided to illustrate certain aspects embodiments and configurations of the disclosure and are not to be construed as limitations on the disclosure as set forth in the appended claims.

Because the crystal structure of RalB is not defined the inventors screened GDP loaded RalB protein against a 92 167 member encoded bead based library. The screen was performed as a direct binding assay of FLAG RalB at 500 nM to pools of beads. Each pool contained multiple copies of encoded immobilized compounds. A visible blue color developed upon FLAG RalB binding by an ELISA with mouse anti FLAG goat anti mouse alkaline phosphatase conjugate and the precipitating substrate BCIP. Blue beads were physically separated and decoded by mass spectroscopy. This search resulted in the identification of eleven compounds for further evaluation.

The inventors constructed the 3D structure of RalB using threading algorithms from the known RalA crystal structure Nicely N I Kosak J de Serrano V Mattos C. . Structure Camb 2004 12 2025 36 . In silico molecular modeling of the identified theoretical low energy binding pockets was used to identify combinatorial hits on the surface of the simulated RalB. Surprisingly the hits identified using this approach were bound to the same homologous pocket on RalA that was identified by the computational modeling approach. Thus the two different approaches to model the RalA and RalB paralogs identified an identical molecular target site present in both proteins which is distinct from the nucleotide GDP binding site.

Based on this in silico modeling putative Ral inhibitors were designed and purchased or synthesized where necessary. Functional characterization was then used to evaluate putative GTPase inhibitors in living cells. Two complementary screens were developed to determine which of the 99 compounds that likely bound to the molecular target site would block Ral activity. Both assays were cell based to assure that any observed functional effects required drug penetration into a living cell. For example shows the dose inhibition activity of two compounds of the invention RBC8 and RBC10 on growth of human lung cancer cell lines. Calu 6 human lung adenocarcinoma. H157 squamous cell carcinoma. H358 bronchioalveolar carcinoma. Calu 3 human airway epithelial cell line of serous gland origin. 88 of the screened compounds are shown in Table 1.

General Procedure A 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one UC E1 A solution of ethyl acetoacetate 9.02 mL 71.2 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 130 mL was treated at 0 C. with phenyl hydrazine 7.00 g 64.7 mmol 1.0 equ. . The mixture was allowed to come to slowly ward to ambient temperature and then heated to 60 C. 3 h . The solvent was removed under vacuum and the residue purified by column chromatography on silica gel ethyl acetate hexanes 1 1 to give 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 7.60 g 43.6 mmol 67 as a light yellow powder. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.87 7.85 d 2H 7.41 7.37 t 2H 7.19 7.16 t 1H 3.42 s 2H 2.19 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 170.5 156.2 138.0 128.8 125.0 118.8 43.0 17.0 LC MS MS 175.0 77.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 56 CE 25 CXP 4 t 3.52 min.

1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one UC E2 Following the general procedure A ethyl acetoacetate 15.1 mL 119 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 200 mL was treated at 0 C. with methylhydrazine 5.00 g 109 mmol 1.0 equ. to afford 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 8.02 g 71.5 mmol 66 after purification by crystallization DCM and n hexanes as a white off solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 3.25 s 3H 3.16 s 2H 2.08 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 172.2 155.4 138.0 41.3 31.0 16.8.

1 methyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one UC E3 According to General Procedure A ethyl benzoylacetate 18.4 mL 95.5 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 180 mL was treated at 0 C. with methylhydrazine 4.57 mL 86.8 mmol 1.0 equ. to give 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 11.0 g 63.1 mmol 73 after purification by crystallization ethanol as a light yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.67 7.65 m 2H 7.42 7.41 m 3H 3.60 s 2H 3.41 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 171.8 154.2 131.0 130.3 128.8 125.6 37.9 31.4. LC MS MS 175.0 77.2 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 66 CE 43 CXP 4 t 3.45 min.

1 3 diphenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one UC E4 According to General Procedure A ethyl benzoylacetate 12.2 mL 71.2 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 130 mL was treated at 0 C. with phenylhydrazine 7.00 g 71.2 mmol 1.0 equ. to give 1 3 diphenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 6.75 g 28.6 mmol 44 after purification by column chromatography on silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 4 1 and crystallization ethanol as a white off solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 11.84 s 1H 7.84 7.82 d 4H 7.50 7.40 m 4H 7.34 7.27 m 2H 6.02 s 1H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 154.2 150.0 139.3 133.8 129.3 129.0 128.2 126.1 125.5 121.5 85.5 LC MS MS 237.0 77.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 81 CE 68 CXP 4 t 4.15 min.

1 benzyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one UC E5 A solution of ethyl benzoylacetate 4.80 mL 28.2 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 60 mL was treated at 0 C. with benzlhydrazine 5.00 g 25.6 mmol 1.0 equ. . The mixture was slowly warmed to ambient temperature and heated to 60 C. 16 h . The reaction mixture was concentrated and diluted with ethanol 100 mL and then 3.0 g of sodium ethoxide added and stirred 40 h . The solid was filtered off and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel 4 1 n hexanes ethyl acetate to 100 ethyl acetate to give 1 benzyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 0.255 g 1.02 mmol 4 as a light orange solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 11.17 s 1H 7.71 7.70 d 2H 7.37 7.31 m 4H 7.27 7.20 m 4H 5.85 s 1H 5.13 s 2H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 153.6 148.6 138.3 134.4 128.8 128.8 127.6 127.6 125.1 83.7 50.0 LC MS MS 251.1 91.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 2 CE 33 CXP 14 t 4.01 min.

3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one UC E6 Using General Procedure A ethyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzoylacetate 5.00 g 19.8 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 60 mL was treated at 0 C. with methylhydrazine 0.95 mL 19.8 mmol 1.0 equiv. to give 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 1.86 g 7.94 mmol 44 after purification by chromatography on silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 4 1 to 1 1 as a light yellow powder. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.35 7.35 d 1H 7.06 7.04 dd 1H 6.87 6.85 d 1H 3.94 s 3H 3.92 s 3H 3.57 s 2H 3.39 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 171.6 154.1 151.1 149.4 124.1 119.6 110.7 107.3 55.9 55.9 38.0 31.3 LC MS MS 235.1 219.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 66 CE 33 CXP 14 t 3.26 min.

3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one UC E7 Using General Procedure A ethyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzoylacetate 3.00 g 11.9 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 60 mL was treated at 0 C. with phenylhydrazine 1.17 mL 10.8 mmol 1.0 equ. to afford 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 920 mg 2.32 mmol 22 after purification by crystallization ethanol as a yellow powder. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.00 7.97 d 1H 7.48 7.42 m 3H 7.25 7.21 t 1H 7.17 7.14 dd 1 H 6.91 6.89 d 1H 3.98 s 3H 3.95 s 3H 3.83 s 2H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 170.1 154.4 151.4 149.4 138.1 128.8 125.2 123.8 120.1 119.1 110.7 107.6 56.0 56.0 39.7 LC MS MS 297.0 218.2 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 96 CE 37 CXP 18 t 3.98 min.

3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one UC E8 Using General Procedure A ethyl 4 methoxybenzoylacetate 7.00 g 27.8 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 100 mL was treated at 0 C. with phenylhydrazine 2.50 mL 25.3 mmol 1.0 equ. to give 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 5.21 g 19.6 mmol 78 after crystallization ethanol as a light yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.99 7.97 d 1H 7.66 7.64 d 2H 7.44 7.40 t 2H 7.22 7.18 t 1H 6.94 6.92 d 2H 3.82 s 3H 3.68 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 170.1 161.5 154.4 138.2 128.8 127.5 125.0 123.5 118.8 114.2 55.3 39.6 LC MS MS 267.0 77.2 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 81 CE 65 CXP 4 t 4.15 min.

3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one UC E9 Using General Procedure A ethyl 4 methoxybenzoylacetate 7.00 g 27.8 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 100 mL was treated at 0 C. with methyllhydrazine 1.30 mL 25.2 mmol 1.0 equ. to give 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 3.00 g 14.7 mmol 58 after crystallization from ethanol as a light yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 10.94 s 1H 7.63 7.60 d 2H 6.92 6.90 d 2H 5.70 s 1H 3.76 s 3H 3.54 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 161.1 153.4 147.9 126.3 114.6 114.4 83.1 59.7 31.3 LC MS MS 205.0 190.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 51 CE 29 CXP 12 t 3.44 min.

6 amino 3 methyl 1 4 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E10 To a stirred solution of benzaldehyde 290 L 2.87 mmol malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol and 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 500 mg 2.87 mmol in anhydrous DCM 60 mL was added anhydrous NaSO 407 mg 2.87 mmol and ethylhydrocupreine hydrochloride 46 mg 0.122 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature 25 h . After filtration and washing with DCM the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude mixture was subjected to flash column chromatography over silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 1 1 to give 6 amino 3 methyl 1 4 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 270 mg 0.822 mmol 29 as white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.69 7.66 d 2H 7.50 7.46 t 2H 7.39 7.26 m 6H 4.68 s 1H 4.67 s 2H 1.91 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 158.1 146.4 143.8 141.9 137.5 129.2 128.8 127.8 127.5 126.7 121.2 119.0 98.3 64.0 37.4 12.8 LC MS MS 329.1 263.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 56 CE 31 CXP 18 t 4.18 min.

6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E11 A mixture of the 4 fluourobenzaldehyde 356 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of the 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 500 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated and the precipitate filtered and re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 85.0 mg 0.245 mmol 9 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.68 7.66 d 2H 7.50 7.46 t 2H 7.34 7.32 t 1H 7.28 7.22 m 2H 7.08 7.04 t 2H 4.68 s 3H 1.91 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 158.0 146.2 143.7 137.8 137.5 129.4 129.2 126.8 121.2 118.8 115.8 115.6 98.1 63.8 36.7 12.8 LC MS MS 347.1 281.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 11 CE 31 CXP 18 t 4.16 min.

6 amino 1 3 dimethyl 4 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E12 A mixture of benzaldehyde 290 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 322 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equiv. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 19 h and washed with ethanol and hexanes. The crude material was purified by column chromatography on SiO 25 ethyl acetate in n hexanes to 100 ethyl acetate and then re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 1 3 dimethyl 4 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitril 263 mg 0.988 mmol 34 as a yellow powder. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.34 7.32 m 2H 7.25 7.23 t 1H 7.19 7.17 d 2H 7.05 s 2H 4.57 s 1H 3.60 s 3H 1.66 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 159.9 144.6 144.4 142.9 128.8 128.0 127.3 120.6 96.5 58.7 37.5 33.8 12.8 LC MS MS 267.0 201.3 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 61 CE 29 CXP 12 t 3.74 min.

6 amino 1 methyl 3 4 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E13 A mixture consisting of benzaldehyde 290 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 500 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 21 h and washed with ethanol and hexanes re crystallized from ethanol and washed with hexanes and ethanol to give 6 amino 1 methyl 3 4 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 282 mg 8.58 mmol 30 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.41 7.38 m 2H 7.28 7.24 m 2H 7.21 7.18 m 6H 4.88 s 1H 4.77 s 2 H 3.83 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 158.1 146.0 144.8 144.6 133.2 128.7 128.5 127.9 127.8 127.1 126.4 120.5 95.7 59.9 38.2 34.5 LC MS MS 329.1 263.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 71 CE 31 CXP 18 t 4.00 min.

6 amino 1 3 4 triphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E14 A mixture of benzaldehyde 290 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 3 diphenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 678 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The precipitate was filtered off and washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 1 3 4 triphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 330 mg 0.845 mmol 29 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.82 7.80 d 2H 7.55 7.50 m 4H 7.41 7.37 t 1H 7.32 7.22 m 8H 4.96 s 1H 4.68 s 2H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 157.5 147.7 144.9 142.6 137.5 132.2 129.3 128.8 128.2 128.2 127.5 127.4 127.1 126.9 121.6 118.9 97.5 64.8 38.2 LC MS MS 391.1 325.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 91 CE 33 CXP 22 t 4.33 min.

6 amino 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 4 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E15 A mixture of benzaldehyde 290 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 764 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 19 h and washed with ethanol and hexanes re crystallized from ethanol and washed with hexanes and ethanol to give 6 amino 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 4 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 695 mg 1.65 mmol 58 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.94 7.92 d 2H 7.58 7.53 m 2H 7.41 7.37 t 1H 7.27 7.16 m 7H 6.83 6.81 d 2H 5.04 s 1H 3.71 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 159.5 159.0 146.6 145.6 144.5 137.9 129.8 128.9 128.3 128.0 127.3 127.1 125.1 121.1 120.3 114.1 97.5 59.8 55.5 37.9 LC MS MS 421.2 355.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 71 CE 33 CXP 24 t 4.28 min.

6 amino 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 4 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E16 A mixture of benzaldehyde 290 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 583 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h. The crude material was purified by column chromatography 25 ethyl acetate in hexanes to 100 ethyl acetate then re crystallized from ethanol and washed with hexanes and ethanol to give 6 amino 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 4 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 80.9 mg 8 0.226 mmol as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.42 7.40 d 2H 7.23 7.21 m 2H 7.15 7.13 d 3H 7.06 s 1H 6.77 6.75 d 2H 4.93 s 1H 3.76 s 3H 3.69 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 159.1 159.0 145.9 144.8 144.5 128.8 127.8 127.7 127.1 125.8 120.5 113.9 95.0 59.9 55.4 38.2 34.4 LC MS MS 359.1 293.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 76 CE 31 CXP 20 t 3.96 min.

6 amino 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 methyl 4 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E17 A mixture of benzaldehyde 145 L 1.44 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 90.0 mg 1.44 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 200 L 1.44 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 5.0 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 336 mg 1.44 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h. The crude material was purified by column chromatography. 25 ethyl acetate in hexanes to 100 ethyl acetate then re crystallized from ethanol and washed with hexanes and ethanol to give 6 amino 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 methyl 4 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 48.5 mg 9 0.124 mmol as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.29 7.28 d 2H 7.23 7.21 d 2H 7.00 6.98 d 1H 6.88 s 1H 6.72 6.70 d 2H 4.84 s 1H 4.75 s 2H 3.82 s 6H 3.60 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 157.6 148.7 148.6 146.1 145.7 143.1 128.9 127.5 127.4 125.6 119.3 119.3 110.9 109.7 94.7 64.4 55.7 55.6 38.3 34.1 LC MS MS 389.1 323.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 66 CE 31 CXP 22 t 3.82 min.

6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 3 dimethyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E18 A mixture of 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 300 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 mL 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 8.0 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 322 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h and washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 3 dimethyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 335 mg 41 1.17 mmol as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.23 7.20 m 2H 7.16 7.12 m 2H 7.07 s 2H 4.61 s 1H 3.60 s 3H 1.67 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 162.7 159.9 144.6 142.9 140.7 129.9 120.6 115.6 115.4 96.3 59.6 56.4 36.7 33.8 12.8 LC MS MS 285.1 219.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 61 CE 27 CXP 14 t 3.80 min.

6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E19 A mixture of the 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 300 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 500 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 20 h in vacuo and washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 182 mg 0.525 mmol 18 as a light yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.50 7.48 d 2H 7.22 7.18 m 5H 7.11 s 2H 7.05 6.98 t 2H 5.04 s 1H 3.78 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 162.5 159.1 146.0 144.6 140.9 133.1 129.8 128.5 127.9 126.5 120.4 115.5 115.3 95.5 59.7 37.4 34.5 LC MS MS 347.1 281.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 66 CE 31 CXP 14 t 4.00 min.

6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 3 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E20 A mixture of 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 300 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 3 diphenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 678 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The precipitate formed was filtered out and washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to afford 6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 3 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 240 mg 0.588 mmol 20 as a white powder. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.94 7.92 d 2H 7.61 7.55 m 4H 7.42 7.38 t 1H 7.28 7.24 m 7H 7.06 7.02 t 2H 5.15 s 1H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 162.6 159.0 146.8 145.6 140.6 137.8 132.5 130.0 129.9 129.8 128.6 128.6 127.3 127.0 121.3 120.2 115.6 115.4 97.9 59.6 37.0 LC MS MS 410.4 242.2 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 21 CE 47 CXP 16 t 4.63 min.

6 amino 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 methyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E21 A mixture of 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 300 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 672 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The precipitate formed was filtered out and washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 3 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 782 mg 1.93 mmol 67 as a white powder. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.20 7.18 m 2H 7.09 7.03 m 5H 6.96 6.95 d 1H 6.80 6.78 d 2H 5.02 s 1H 3.77 s 3H 3.69 s 3H 3.62 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 162.6 159.0 148.7 146.0 144.6 141.0 141.0 129.8 129.7 125.9 120.4 119.0 115.7 115.4 111.8 109.8 94.7 55.8 55.7 37.3 34.4 LC MS MS 407.1 341.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 71 CE 33 CXP 22 t 3.86 min.

6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E22 A mixture of 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 300 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 764 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The precipitate formed was filtered off and washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to afford 6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 800 mg 1.83 mmol 64 as white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.93 7.91 d 2H 7.55 7.53 m 4H 7.41 7.37 t 1H 7.26 7.23 m 4H 7.07 7.05 t 2H 6.84 6.82 d 2H 5.11 s 1H 3.72 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 162.6 159.6 159.0 146.6 145.5 140.7 140.6 137.9 130.0 129.9 129.8 128.3 127.1 125.0 121.1 120.2 115.6 115.4 114.1 97.3 59.6 55.5 37.0 LC MS MS 439.2 373.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 61 CE 35 CXP 24 t 4.28 min.

6 amino 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E23 A mixture of 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 70.0 L 0.675 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 45.0 mg 0.675 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 90.0 L 0.675 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 3.0 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of the 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 200 mg 0.675 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 19 h and the crude material was purified by column chromatography 25 ethyl acetate in hexanes to 100 ethyl acetate . The yellow solid was further purified by re crystallization from ethanol to give 6 amino 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 164 mg 0.350 mmol 12 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.80 7.78 d 2H 7.52 7.48 t 2H 7.38 7.35 t 1H 7.25 7.21 m 2H 7.05 6.95 m 4H 6.75 6.73 d 1H 4.91 s 1H 4.84 s 1H 3.84 s 3H 3.71 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 163.2 157.8 149.2 148.7 147.5 144.9 138.6 137.4 129.3 129.1 129.0 127.1 125.0 121.5 119.8 119.0 115.9 115.7 110.8 109.9 96.6 64.0 55.8 55.7 37.5 LC MS MS 469.3 403.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 6 CE 35 CXP 26 t 4.16 min.

6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E24 A mixture of 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 300 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 586 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 19 h and the precipitate formed was washed with ethanol and hexanes re crystallized from ethanol and washed with hexanes and ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 350 mg 0.930 mmol 32 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.43 7.40 d 2H 7.20 7.16 m 2H 7.10 s 2H 7.06 7.02 t 2H 6.78 6.76 d 2H 4.99 s 1H 3.75 s 3H 3.69 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 162.5 159.1 145.8 144.6 141.0 141.0 129.8 129.7 127.8 125.7 120.5 115.6 115.4 113.9 94.9 59.7 55.4 3 7.4 34.4 LC MS MS 377.1 311.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 66 CE 33 CXP 20 t 3.98 min.

6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E25 A mixture of anisaldehyde 350 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 500 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h and the precipitate was washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 800 mg 78 2.23 mmol as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.80 7.78 d 2H 7.51 7.47 t 2H 7.32 7.28 t 1H 7.18 7.16 m 4H 6.91 6.89 d 2H 4.62 s 1H 3.74 s 3H 1.79 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 159.7 158.6 145.7 144.2 138.0 136.0 129.7 129.2 126.5 120.5 120.3 114.3 99.3 59.0 55.4 36.4 13.0 LC MS MS 359.2 293.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 71 CE 29 CXP 20 t 4.14 min.

6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 1 3 dimethyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E26 A mixture of anisaldehyde 350 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 321 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h and the crude material was purified by column chromatography 25 ethyl acetate in hexanes to 100 ethyl acetate . The yellow solid was washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 1 3 dimethyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 370 mg 1.25 mmol 44 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.12 7.10 d 2H 6.85 6.83 d 2H 4.61 s 2H 4.55 s 1H 3.79 s 3H 3.69 s 3H 1.80 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 158.8 157.9 144.5 144.4 134.5 128.8 119.3 114.0 96.4 64.2 55.2 36.7 33.7 12.7 LC MS MS 297.0 231.2 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 61 CE 27 CXP 16 t 3.71 min.

6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E27 A mixture of anisaldehyde 350 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 500 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h and the precipitate was washed with ethanol and hexanes and product re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 210 mg 20 0.586 mmol as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.50 7.48 d 2H 7.21 7.17 m 3H 7.05 7.02 m 4H 6.76 6.74 d 2H 4.91 s 1H 3.76 s 3H 3.64 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 158.9 158.3 146.0 144.6 136.9 133.2 128.9 128.5 127.8 126.4 120.6 114.1 95.9 60.3 55.3 37.5 34.5 LC MS MS 359.2 293.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 66 CE 29 CXP 20 t 3.98 min.

6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E28 A mixture of anisaldehyde 350 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL is stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 3 diphenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 678 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h and the precipitate was washed with ethanol and hexanes. The product was re crystallized from ethanol to afford 6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 1.05 g 87 2.50 mmol as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.94 7.92 d 2H 7.63 7.61 d 2H 7.57 7.53 t 2H 7.40 7.36 t 1H 7.29 7.23 m 3H 7.15 s 2H 7.13 7.11 d 2H 6.78 6.76 d 2H 5.02 s 1H 3.65 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 158.9 158.4 146.7 145.6 137.9 136.5 132.6 129.8 129.0 128.7 128.5 127.2 127.0 121.2 120.3 114.2 98.3 60.2 55.3 37.1 LC MS MS 421.2 355.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 81 CE 35 CXP 24 t 4.32 min.

6 amino 3 4 bis 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E29 A mixture of anisaldehyde 350 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 764 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h and the precipitate was washed with ethanol and hexanes and then re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 3 4 bis 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 1.06 g 2.35 mmol 82 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.93 7.91 d 2H 7.56 7.52 m 4H 7.38 7.35 t 1H 7.15 7.11 m 4H 6.83 6.78 m 4H 4.98 s 1H 3.70 s 3H 3.66 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 159.5 158.9 158.4 146.6 145.5 137.9 136.6 129.8 129.0 128.3 127.0 125.2 121.0 120.4 114.2 114.1 97.7 60.3 55.5 55.3 37.1 LC MS MS 452.3 89.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 36 CE 39 CXP 4 t 3.47 min.

6 amino 3 4 bis 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile UC E30 A mixture of anisaldehyde 350 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 689 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equiv. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h and the precipitate was washed with ethanol and hexanes and then re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 3 4 bis 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 690 mg 1.78 mmol 62 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.42 7.40 d 2H 7.05 7.03 d 2H 7.00 s 2H 6.78 6.75 dd 4H 4.86 s 1H 3.73 s 3H 3.68 s 3H 3.66 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 159.0 158.9 158.3 145.9 144.5 136.9 128.9 127.7 125.9 120.6 114.1 113.9 95.3 60.3 55.4 55.3 37.5 34.3 LC MS MS 389.2 323.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 66 CE 29 CXP 22 t 3.94 min.

General Procedure A 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one A solution of ethyl acetoacetate 9.02 mL 71.2 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 130 mL was treated at 0 C. with phenyl hydrazine 7.00 g 64.7 mmol 1.0 equ. . The mixture was allowed to come to slowly ward to ambient temperature and then heated to 60 C. 3 h . The solvent was removed under vacuum and the residue purified by column chromatography on silica gel ethyl acetate hexanes 1 1 to give 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 7.60 g 43.6 mmol 67 as a light yellow powder. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.87 7.85 d 2H 7.41 7.37 t 2H 7.19 7.16 t 1H 3.42 s 2H 2.19 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 170.5 156.2 138.0 128.8 125.0 118.8 43.0 17.0 LC MS MS 175.0 77.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 56 CE 25 CXP 4 t 3.52 min.

1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one Following the general procedure A ethyl acetoacetate 15.1 mL 119 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 200 mL was treated at 0 C. with methylhydrazine 5.00 g 109 mmol 1.0 equ. to afford 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 8.02 g 71.5 mmol 66 after purification by crystallization DCM and n hexanes as a white off solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 3.25 s 3H 3.16 s 2H 2.08 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 172.2 155.4 138.0 41.3 31.0 16.8.

1 methyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one According to General Procedure A ethyl benzoylacetate 18.4 mL 95.5 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 180 mL was treated at 0 C. with methylhydrazine 4.57 mL 86.8 mmol 1.0 equ. to give 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 11.0 g 63.1 mmol 73 after purification by crystallization ethanol as a light yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.67 7.65 m 2H 7.42 7.41 m 3H 3.60 s 2H 3.41 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 171.8 154.2 131.0 130.3 128.8 125.6 37.9 31.4. LC MS MS 175.0 77.2 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 66 CE 43 CXP 4 t 3.45 min.

1 3 diphenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one According to General Procedure A ethyl benzoylacetate 12.2 mL 71.2 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 130 mL was treated at 0 C. with phenylhydrazine 7.00 g 71.2 mmol 1.0 equ. to give 1 3 diphenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 6.75 g 28.6 mmol 44 after purification by column chromatography on silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 4 1 and crystallization ethanol as a white off solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 11.84 s 1H 7.84 7.82 d 4H 7.50 7.40 m 4H 7.34 7.27 m 2H 6.02 s 1H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 154.2 150.0 139.3 133.8 129.3 129.0 128.2 126.1 125.5 121.5 85.5 LC MS MS 237.0 77.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 81 CE 68 CXP 4 t 4.15 min.

1 benzyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one A solution of ethyl benzoylacetate 4.80 mL 28.2 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 60 mL was treated at 0 C. with benzlhydrazine 5.00 g 25.6 mmol 1.0 equ. . The mixture was slowly warmed to ambient temperature and heated to 60 C. 16 h . The reaction mixture was concentrated and diluted with ethanol 100 mL and then 3.0 g of sodium ethoxide added and stirred 40 h . The solid was filtered off and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel 4 1 n hexanes ethyl acetate to 100 ethyl acetate to give 1 benzyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 0.255 g 1.02 mmol 4 as a light orange solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 11.17 s 1H 7.71 7.70 d 2H 7.37 7.31 m 4H 7.27 7.20 m 4H 5.85 s 1H 5.13 s 2H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 153.6 148.6 138.3 134.4 128.8 128.8 127.6 127.6 125.1 83.7 50.0 LC MS MS 251.1 91.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 2 CE 33 CXP 14 t 4.01 min.

3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one Using General Procedure A ethyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzoylacetate 5.00 g 19.8 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 60 mL was treated at 0 C. with methylhydrazine 0.95 mL 19.8 mmol 1.0 equiv. to give 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 1.86 g 7.94 mmol 44 after purification by chromatography on silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 4 1 to 1 1 as a light yellow powder. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.35 7.35 d 1H 7.06 7.04 dd 1H 6.87 6.85 d 1H 3.94 s 3H 3.92 s 3H 3.57 s 2H 3.39 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 171.6 154.1 151.1 149.4 124.1 119.6 110.7 107.3 55.9 55.9 38.0 31.3 LC MS MS 235.1 219.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 66 CE 33 CXP 14 t 3.26 min.

3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one Using General Procedure A ethyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzoylacetate 3.00 g 11.9 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 60 mL was treated at 0 C. with phenylhydrazine 1.17 mL 10.8 mmol 1.0 equ. to afford 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 920 mg 2.32 mmol 22 after purification by crystallization ethanol as a yellow powder. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.00 7.97 d 1H 7.48 7.42 m 3H 7.25 7.21 t 1H 7.17 7.14 dd 1 H 6.91 6.89 d 1H 3.98 s 3H 3.95 s 3H 3.83 s 2H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 170.1 154.4 151.4 149.4 138.1 128.8 125.2 123.8 120.1 119.1 110.7 107.6 56.0 56.0 39.7 LC MS MS 297.0 218.2 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 96 CE 37 CXP 18 t 3.98 min.

3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one Using General Procedure A ethyl 4 methoxybenzoylacetate 7.00 g 27.8 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 100 mL was treated at 0 C. with phenylhydrazine 2.50 mL 25.3 mmol 1.0 equ. to give 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 5.21 g 19.6 mmol 78 after crystallization ethanol as a light yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.99 7.97 d 1H 7.66 7.64 d 2H 7.44 7.40 t 2H 7.22 7.18 t 1H 6.94 6.92 d 2H 3.82 s 3H 3.68 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 170.1 161.5 154.4 138.2 128.8 127.5 125.0 123.5 118.8 114.2 55.3 39.6 LC MS MS 267.0 77.2 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 81 CE 65 CXP 4 t 4.15 min.

3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one Using General Procedure A ethyl 4 methoxybenzoylacetate 7.00 g 27.8 mmol 1.1 equ. in ethanol 100 mL was treated at 0 C. with methyllhydrazine 1.30 mL 25.2 mmol 1.0 equ. to give 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 3.00 g 14.7 mmol 58 after crystallization from ethanol as a light yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 10.94 s 1H 7.63 7.60 d 2H 6.92 6.90 d 2H 5.70 s 1H 3.76 s 3H 3.54 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 161.1 153.4 147.9 126.3 114.6 114.4 83.1 59.7 31.3 LC MS MS 205.0 190.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 51 CE 29 CXP 12 t 3.44 min.

6 amino 3 methyl 1 4 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile To a stirred solution of benzaldehyde 290 L 2.87 mmol malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol and 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 500 mg 2.87 mmol in anhydrous DCM 60 mL was added anhydrous NaSO 407 mg 2.87 mmol and ethylhydrocupreine hydrochloride 46 mg 0.122 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature 25 h . After filtration and washing with DCM the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude mixture was subjected to flash column chromatography over silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 1 1 to give 6 amino 3 methyl 1 4 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 270 mg 0.822 mmol 29 as white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.69 7.66 d 2H 7.50 7.46 t 2H 7.39 7.26 m 6H 4.68 s 1H 4.67 s 2H 1.91 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 158.1 146.4 143.8 141.9 137.5 129.2 128.8 127.8 127.5 126.7 121.2 119.0 98.3 64.0 37.4 12.8 LC MS MS 329.1 263.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 56 CE 31 CXP 18 t 4.18 min.

6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of the 4 fluourobenzaldehyde 356 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of the 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 500 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated and the precipitate filtered and re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 85.0 mg 0.245 mmol 9 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.68 7.66 d 2H 7.50 7.46 t 2H 7.34 7.32 t 1H 7.28 7.22 m 2H 7.08 7.04 t 2H 4.68 s 3H 1.91 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 158.0 146.2 143.7 137.8 137.5 129.4 129.2 126.8 121.2 118.8 115.8 115.6 98.1 63.8 36.7 12.8 LC MS MS 347.1 281.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 11 CE 31 CXP 18 t 4.16 min.

6 amino 1 3 dimethyl 4 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of benzaldehyde 290 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 322 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equiv. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 19 h and washed with ethanol and hexanes. The crude material was purified by column chromatography on SiO 25 ethyl acetate in n hexanes to 100 ethyl acetate and then re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 1 3 dimethyl 4 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitril 263 mg 0.988 mmol 34 as a yellow powder. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.34 7.32 m 2H 7.25 7.23 t 1H 7.19 7.17 d 2H 7.05 s 2H 4.57 s 1H 3.60 s 3H 1.66 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 159.9 144.6 144.4 142.9 128.8 128.0 127.3 120.6 96.5 58.7 37.5 33.8 12.8 LC MS MS 267.0 201.3 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 61 CE 29 CXP 12 t 3.74 min.

6 amino 1 methyl 3 4 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture consisting of benzaldehyde 290 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 500 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 21 h and washed with ethanol and hexanes re crystallized from ethanol and washed with hexanes and ethanol to give 6 amino 1 methyl 3 4 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 282 mg 8.58 mmol 30 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.41 7.38 m 2H 7.28 7.24 m 2H 7.21 7.18 m 6H 4.88 s 1H 4.77 s 2 H 3.83 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 158.1 146.0 144.8 144.6 133.2 128.7 128.5 127.9 127.8 127.1 126.4 120.5 95.7 59.9 38.2 34.5 LC MS MS 329.1 263.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 71 CE 31 CXP 18 t 4.00 min.

6 amino 1 3 4 triphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of benzaldehyde 290 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 3 diphenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 678 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The precipitate was filtered off and washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 1 3 4 triphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 330 mg 0.845 mmol 29 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.82 7.80 d 2H 7.55 7.50 m 4H 7.41 7.37 t 1H 7.32 7.22 m 8H 4.96 s 1H 4.68 s 2H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 157.5 147.7 144.9 142.6 137.5 132.2 129.3 128.8 128.2 128.2 127.5 127.4 127.1 126.9 121.6 118.9 97.5 64.8 38.2 LC MS MS 391.1 325.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 91 CE 33 CXP 22 t 4.33 min.

6 amino 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 4 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of benzaldehyde 290 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 764 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 19 h and washed with ethanol and hexanes re crystallized from ethanol and washed with hexanes and ethanol to give 6 amino 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 4 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 695 mg 1.65 mmol 58 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.94 7.92 d 2H 7.58 7.53 m 2H 7.41 7.37 t 1H 7.27 7.16 m 7H 6.83 6.81 d 2H 5.04 s 1H 3.71 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 159.5 159.0 146.6 145.6 144.5 137.9 129.8 128.9 128.3 128.0 127.3 127.1 125.1 121.1 120.3 114.1 97.5 59.8 55.5 37.9 LC MS MS 421.2 355.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 71 CE 33 CXP 24 t 4.28 min.

6 amino 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 4 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of benzaldehyde 290 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 583 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h. The crude material was purified by column chromatography 25 ethyl acetate in hexanes to 100 ethyl acetate then re crystallized from ethanol and washed with hexanes and ethanol to give 6 amino 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 4 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 80.9 mg 8 0.226 mmol as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.42 7.40 d 2H 7.23 7.21 m 2H 7.15 7.13 d 3H 7.06 s 1H 6.77 6.75 d 2H 4.93 s 1H 3.76 s 3H 3.69 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 159.1 159.0 145.9 144.8 144.5 128.8 127.8 127.7 127.1 125.8 120.5 113.9 95.0 59.9 55.4 38.2 34.4 LC MS MS 359.1 293.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 76 CE 31 CXP 20 t 3.96 min.

6 amino 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 methyl 4 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of benzaldehyde 145 L 1.44 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 90.0 mg 1.44 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 200 L 1.44 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 5.0 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 336 mg 1.44 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h. The crude material was purified by column chromatography. 25 ethyl acetate in hexanes to 100 ethyl acetate then re crystallized from ethanol and washed with hexanes and ethanol to give 6 amino 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 methyl 4 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 48.5 mg 9 0.124 mmol as a yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.29 7.28 d 2H 7.23 7.21 d 2H 7.00 6.98 d 1H 6.88 s 1H 6.72 6.70 d 2H 4.84 s 1H 4.75 s 2H 3.82 s 6H 3.60 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 157.6 148.7 148.6 146.1 145.7 143.1 128.9 127.5 127.4 125.6 119.3 119.3 110.9 109.7 94.7 64.4 55.7 55.6 38.3 34.1 LC MS MS 389.1 323.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 66 CE 31 CXP 22 t 3.82 min.

6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 3 dimethyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 300 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 mL 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 8.0 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 322 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h and washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 3 dimethyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 335 mg 41 1.17 mmol as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.23 7.20 m 2H 7.16 7.12 m 2H 7.07 s 2H 4.61 s 1H 3.60 s 3H 1.67 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 162.7 159.9 144.6 142.9 140.7 129.9 120.6 115.6 115.4 96.3 59.6 56.4 36.7 33.8 12.8 LC MS MS 285.1 219.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 61 CE 27 CXP 14 t 3.80 min.

6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of the 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 300 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 500 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 20 h in vacuo and washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 182 mg 0.525 mmol 18 as a light yellow solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.50 7.48 d 2H 7.22 7.18 m 5H 7.11 s 2H 7.05 6.98 t 2H 5.04 s 1H 3.78 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 162.5 159.1 146.0 144.6 140.9 133.1 129.8 128.5 127.9 126.5 120.4 115.5 115.3 95.5 59.7 37.4 34.5 LC MS MS 347.1 281.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 66 CE 31 CXP 14 t 4.00 min.

6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 3 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 300 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 3 diphenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 678 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The precipitate formed was filtered out and washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to afford 6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 3 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 240 mg 0.588 mmol 20 as a white powder. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.94 7.92 d 2H 7.61 7.55 m 4H 7.42 7.38 t 1H 7.28 7.24 m 7H 7.06 7.02 t 2H 5.15 s 1H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 162.6 159.0 146.8 145.6 140.6 137.8 132.5 130.0 129.9 129.8 128.6 128.6 127.3 127.0 121.3 120.2 115.6 115.4 97.9 59.6 37.0 LC MS MS 410.4 242.2 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 21 CE 47 CXP 16 t 4.63 min.

6 amino 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 methyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 300 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 672 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The precipitate formed was filtered out and washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 3 diphenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 782 mg 1.93 mmol 67 as a white powder. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.20 7.18 m 2H 7.09 7.03 m 5H 6.96 6.95 d 1H 6.80 6.78 d 2H 5.02 s 1H 3.77 s 3H 3.69 s 3H 3.62 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 162.6 159.0 148.7 146.0 144.6 141.0 141.0 129.8 129.7 125.9 120.4 119.0 115.7 115.4 111.8 109.8 94.7 55.8 55.7 37.3 34.4 LC MS MS 407.1 341.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 71 CE 33 CXP 22 t 3.86 min.

6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 300 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 764 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The precipitate formed was filtered off and washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to afford 6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 800 mg 1.83 mmol 64 as white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.93 7.91 d 2H 7.55 7.53 m 4H 7.41 7.37 t 1H 7.26 7.23 m 4H 7.07 7.05 t 2H 6.84 6.82 d 2H 5.11 s 1H 3.72 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 162.6 159.6 159.0 146.6 145.5 140.7 140.6 137.9 130.0 129.9 129.8 128.3 127.1 125.0 121.1 120.2 115.6 115.4 114.1 97.3 59.6 55.5 37.0 LC MS MS 439.2 373.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 61 CE 35 CXP 24 t 4.28 min.

6 amino 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 70.0 L 0.675 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 45.0 mg 0.675 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 90.0 L 0.675 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 3.0 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of the 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 200 mg 0.675 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 19 h and the crude material was purified by column chromatography 25 ethyl acetate in hexanes to 100 ethyl acetate . The yellow solid was further purified by re crystallization from ethanol to give 6 amino 3 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 4 4 fluorophenyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 164 mg 0.350 mmol 12 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.80 7.78 d 2H 7.52 7.48 t 2H 7.38 7.35 t 1H 7.25 7.21 m 2H 7.05 6.95 m 4H 6.75 6.73 d 1H 4.91 s 1H 4.84 s 1H 3.84 s 3H 3.71 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 163.2 157.8 149.2 148.7 147.5 144.9 138.6 137.4 129.3 129.1 129.0 127.1 125.0 121.5 119.8 119.0 115.9 115.7 110.8 109.9 96.6 64.0 55.8 55.7 37.5 LC MS MS 469.3 403.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 6 CE 35 CXP 26 t 4.16 min.

6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of 4 fluorobenzaldehyde 300 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 586 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 19 h and the precipitate formed was washed with ethanol and hexanes re crystallized from ethanol and washed with hexanes and ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 350 mg 0.930 mmol 32 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.43 7.40 d 2H 7.20 7.16 m 2H 7.10 s 2H 7.06 7.02 t 2H 6.78 6.76 d 2H 4.99 s 1H 3.75 s 3H 3.69 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 162.5 159.1 145.8 144.6 141.0 141.0 129.8 129.7 127.8 125.7 120.5 115.6 115.4 113.9 94.9 59.7 55.4 3 7.4 34.4 LC MS MS 377.1 311.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 66 CE 33 CXP 20 t 3.98 min.

6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of anisaldehyde 350 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 500 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h and the precipitate was washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 3 methyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 800 mg 78 2.23 mmol as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.80 7.78 d 2H 7.51 7.47 t 2H 7.32 7.28 t 1H 7.18 7.16 m 4H 6.91 6.89 d 2H 4.62 s 1H 3.74 s 3H 1.79 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 159.7 158.6 145.7 144.2 138.0 136.0 129.7 129.2 126.5 120.5 120.3 114.3 99.3 59.0 55.4 36.4 13.0 LC MS MS 359.2 293.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 71 CE 29 CXP 20 t 4.14 min.

6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 1 3 dimethyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of anisaldehyde 350 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 321 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h and the crude material was purified by column chromatography 25 ethyl acetate in hexanes to 100 ethyl acetate . The yellow solid was washed with ethanol and hexanes and re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 1 3 dimethyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 370 mg 1.25 mmol 44 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.12 7.10 d 2H 6.85 6.83 d 2H 4.61 s 2H 4.55 s 1H 3.79 s 3H 3.69 s 3H 1.80 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 158.8 157.9 144.5 144.4 134.5 128.8 119.3 114.0 96.4 64.2 55.2 36.7 33.7 12.7 LC MS MS 297.0 231.2 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 61 CE 27 CXP 16 t 3.71 min.

6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of anisaldehyde 350 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 500 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h and the precipitate was washed with ethanol and hexanes and product re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 210 mg 20 0.586 mmol as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.50 7.48 d 2H 7.21 7.17 m 3H 7.05 7.02 m 4H 6.76 6.74 d 2H 4.91 s 1H 3.76 s 3H 3.64 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 158.9 158.3 146.0 144.6 136.9 133.2 128.9 128.5 127.8 126.4 120.6 114.1 95.9 60.3 55.3 37.5 34.5 LC MS MS 359.2 293.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 66 CE 29 CXP 20 t 3.98 min.

6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of anisaldehyde 350 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL is stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 1 3 diphenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 678 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h and the precipitate was washed with ethanol and hexanes. The product was re crystallized from ethanol to afford 6 amino 4 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 3 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 1.05 g 87 2.50 mmol as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.94 7.92 d 2H 7.63 7.61 d 2H 7.57 7.53 t 2H 7.40 7.36 t 1H 7.29 7.23 m 3H 7.15 s 2H 7.13 7.11 d 2H 6.78 6.76 d 2H 5.02 s 1H 3.65 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 158.9 158.4 146.7 145.6 137.9 136.5 132.6 129.8 129.0 128.7 128.5 127.2 127.0 121.2 120.3 114.2 98.3 60.2 55.3 37.1 LC MS MS 421.2 355.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 81 CE 35 CXP 24 t 4.32 min.

6 amino 3 4 bis 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of anisaldehyde 350 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 764 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equ. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h and the precipitate was washed with ethanol and hexanes and then re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 3 4 bis 4 methoxyphenyl 1 phenyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 1.06 g 2.35 mmol 82 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.93 7.91 d 2H 7.56 7.52 m 4H 7.38 7.35 t 1H 7.15 7.11 m 4H 6.83 6.78 m 4H 4.98 s 1H 3.70 s 3H 3.66 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 159.5 158.9 158.4 146.6 145.5 137.9 136.6 129.8 129.0 128.3 127.0 125.2 121.0 120.4 114.2 114.1 97.7 60.3 55.5 55.3 37.1 LC MS MS 452.3 89.1 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 36 CE 39 CXP 4 t 3.47 min.

6 amino 3 4 bis 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile A mixture of anisaldehyde 350 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. malononitrile 190 mg 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. and triethylamine 400 L 2.87 mmol 1.0 equ. in ethanol 10 mL was stirred for 1 min followed by the addition of 3 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 5 4H one 689 mg 2.87 mmol 1 equiv. . The reaction mixture was concentrated after 24 h and the precipitate was washed with ethanol and hexanes and then re crystallized from ethanol to give 6 amino 3 4 bis 4 methoxyphenyl 1 methyl 1 4 dihydropyrano 2 3 c pyrazole 5 carbonitrile 690 mg 1.78 mmol 62 as a white solid. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 7.42 7.40 d 2H 7.05 7.03 d 2H 7.00 s 2H 6.78 6.75 dd 4H 4.86 s 1H 3.73 s 3H 3.68 s 3H 3.66 s 3H C NMR 100 MHz DMSO 159.0 158.9 158.3 145.9 144.5 136.9 128.9 127.7 125.9 120.6 114.1 113.9 95.3 60.3 55.4 55.3 37.5 34.3 LC MS MS 389.2 323.0 m z GS1 and GS2 at 30 DP 66 CE 29 CXP 22 t 3.94 min.

The Elisa screen is based upon the canonical binding principle wherein activated GTP bound protein forms a complex with either RalA or RalB to RalBP1. The ELISA assay was adapted from the widely used Ral activation pull down assays Cancer Res. 2005 65 7111 7120 . Recombinant GST His6 RalBP1 fusion protein was purified from bacteria by GST affinity and then adsorbed via a His6 tag directly onto metal chelate derivatized 96 well microplates. Stably transfected UMUC3 cell lines expressing either FLAG RalA or FLAG RalB were created where the ectopic protein functions as a reporter for Ral activation and the FLAG tag allows highly sensitive and specific detection of the protein we resorted to stable expression of FLAG Ral in UMUC3. A robust signal to noise ratio 100 1 using anti FLAG primary antibody and HRP conjugated anti mouse secondary antibody with signal proportional to input protein from 0.3 up to 10 mcg of total cell lysate was obtained from cells cultured in 96 well microplates where enough total cell protein can be recovered for analysis. The inventors used this assay to screen compounds for Ral GTPase inhibitory activity. shows the Elisa screening data for 31 putative Ral GTPase inhibitors of the invention. Ral GTPase inhibitor RBC10 was used in combination testing of Ral GTPase inhibitors in conjunction with MEK Inhibitor AZD6244 in bladder cancer cell lines A549 H358 H460 H2009 SW1573 CRL2169 J82 KU7 MGHU4 LULU2 UMUC3 and showed synergistic efficacy. Ral GTPase inhibitor RBC10 was used in combination testing of Ral GTPase inhibitors in conjunction with MEK Inhibitor AZD6244 in lung cancer cell lines A549 H2009 H358 H460 SW1573 and showed synergistic efficacy. Thereafter dose response curves were determined for Ral GTPase inhibitors of the invention and RalA GTPase inhibition. Additionally cell spreading assays following treatment with Ral GTPase inhibitors of the invention in mouse embryonic fibroblasts MEFs including a dose response curve for cell spreading in these cells. Testing of cell survival of colon cancer cells WiDr HT29 HCT116 HCT15 DLD1 and Caco 2 treated in vitro with four Ral GTPase inhibitors of the invention showed significant reduction in cell growth in treated cells versus vehicle control. Similarly testing of cell survival of pancreatic cancer cells BXPC3 HPAC and MiaPACA2 treated in vitro with seven Ral GTPase inhibitors of the invention showed significant reduction in cell growth in treated cells versus vehicle control. shows the results of a Ral activation pull down assay for eight Ral GTPase inhibitors of the invention. Each drug tested underwent two hour incubation at 50 um in regular 10 J82 medium. The DMSO control lysate was used for two pulldowns which were averaged and control calculated against this average.

An Amplified Luminescent Proximity Homogeneous Assay Alpha screen was conducted to measure the disruption of Ral protein protein interactions caused by the Ral GTPase inhibiting compounds of the present invention. The ALPHA assay involves an acceptor bead that binds to one analyte of interest for example His tagged BP1 and a donor bead bound to a second analyte of interest for example BP2 . With excitation a photosensitizer in the donor bead converts ambient oxygen to reactive singlet oxygen. When donor and acceptor are within 200 nm singlet oxygen species reacts with thioxene compounds in the acceptor bead to generate a chemiluminescent signal that emits at 370 nm. The energy is immediately transferred to fluorophores contained in the same acceptor bead which effectively shifts the emission wavelength to 520 620 nm. The donor bead is excited at 680 nm and in proximity of the acceptor bead will emit light at a range of 520 nm 620 nm GST tagged BP2 . This chemiluminescent reaction can be measured immediately following incubation of the proteins. Chemiluminescence is only observed when beads are in close proximity and thus protein protein interaction between the test proteins is intact. In this way the Ral BP1 RalA binding disruption caused by the Ral GTPase inhibiting compounds of the present invention was evaluated.

An initial ALPHA screen was conducted to measure RalBP1 RalA binding inhibition in the presence of 50 M of the Ral GTPase inhibiting compounds of the invention . Thereafter an ALPHA screen was conducted in a dose response manner to measure the protein binding inhibition of certain Ral GTPase inhibiting compounds of the invention over a micromolar compound concentration range .

The pharmacokinetics of certain Ral GTPase inhibiting compounds of the invention were evaluated in mice. Following intraperitoneal injection or oral administration blood samples were collected over several hours and drug concentrations were evaluated by capillary coupled with Time of Flight TOF spectrometry. Exemplary results for three tests are shown in Table 2 

The growth inhibition properties of certain Ral GTPase inhibiting compounds of the invention were evaluated in vitro. Human cancer cell lines with different histologies and K Ras mutant status were used to examine the in vitro growth inhibitory effect of a 1 M concentration of two Ral GTPase inhibiting compounds of the invention .

Human lung cancer cell lines with different K Ras mutant status were used to examine the in vitro growth inhibitory effect over a micromolar concentration range of Ral GTPase inhibiting compounds of the invention .

H2122 cells were used to measure in vitro cell uptake of RBC8 and RBC10 over 1 hour. RBC8 and RBC10 compounds were individually dosed 10 M in triplicate and the cells were isolated at different time points 1 5 15 30 and 60 min . RBC8 and RBC10 concentrations were determined using LC MS MS methods. shows the cellular uptake of RBC8 over 1 hour. shows the cellular uptake of RBC10 over 1 hour. n 3 SD at each time point.

H2122 cells were used to generate xenografts in mice. RBC8 and RBC10 were delivered at 50 mg kg IP and tissue samples were collected at 1 and 2 hours post inoculation. RBC8 and RBC10 concentrations were determined using LC MS MS methods. shows the tissue concentrations of RBC8 at Tmax. shows the tissue concentrations of RBC10 at Tmax. Plasma data is ng ml. To appropriately compare to tissue data plasma concentration must be multiplied by plasma volume. 

Ten nude mice per group were each given one inoculation of 200 000 H2122 human lung cancer cells. Drug treatment started on the day of the inoculation at 50 mg kg day delivered IP daily except on weekends. shows the tumor volume following RBC8 treatment over 22 days. shows the tumor volume following RBC10 treatment over 18 days.

Ten nude mice per group were each given one inoculation of 200 000 H2122 human lung cancer cells 24 hours after the cells were treated with siRNA depleting both RalA and RalB. shows tumor volume of treated and untreated cells over 20 days.

Human lung cancer cell line H2122 was inoculated subcutaneously into female nude mice and allowed to grow until tumors reached an average size of 200 mm. Mice were given a single IP dose of 50 mg Kg RBC8 RBC10 or DMSO control. Xenograft tumors were collected 2 h RBC10 or 3 h RBC8 after injection. RalA and RalB activity in tumors were measured by pull down assay using RalBP1 agarose beads and normalized to total protein. shows inhibition of RalA in tumors by RBC8 and RBC10. shows inhibition of RalB in tumors by RBC8 and RBC10.

The foregoing examples of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. Furthermore these examples are not intended to limit the invention to the form disclosed herein. Consequently variations and modifications commensurate with the teachings of the description of the invention and the skill or knowledge of the relevant art are within the scope of the present invention. The specific embodiments described in the examples provided herein are intended to further explain the best mode known for practicing the invention and to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the invention in such or other embodiments and with various modifications required by the particular applications or uses of the present invention. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include alternative embodiments to the extent permitted by the prior art.

