---

title: Decision making engine and business analysis tools for small business credit product offerings
abstract: Tools, strategies, and techniques are disclosed for matching the needs of small business owners with credit products offered by lenders such as banking institutions, alternative lenders, and private money lenders. Processes are provided for matching the funding requirements of small business owners with credit products offered by multiple banks and facilitating an intelligent comparison of the multiple credit options. In addition, tools are disclosed for analyzing risk factors and other information associated with business borrowers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08606695&OS=08606695&RS=08606695
owner: Biz2credit Inc.
number: 08606695
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120629
---
The present application claims the priority benefit of provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 503 782 filed on Jul. 1 2011 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention generally relates to tools strategies and techniques for matching the needs of small business owners with the credit products offered by lenders such as banking institutions alternative lenders and private money lenders. In certain embodiments the invention relates to matching the funding requirements of small business owners with credit products offered by multiple banks and facilitating an intelligent comparison of the multiple credit options.

Traditionally small business owners have lacked the time or the bandwidth to compare financing and credit options to determine which lending products best suit their needs. In addition information about lenders and their credit products is typically not consolidated at one web site in one book or at another central location for ready access and review by the prospective borrower. Often the only solution available to small business owners is to talk to retail bankers at the branch level who may not be well versed with the needs of small businesses and the relevant aspects of the industries in which they do business. In addition such branch bankers may not be able or willing to advise small business owners on suitable products available from other banks. This disconnect often hampers the ability of small business owners to obtain access to credit products at competitive rates.

Another issue arises when small business owners do not qualify for credit products. Lending institutions may identify an owner as a credit risk and there may be no way for the owner to become more creditworthy. Also for lenders it can be difficult to reach out to small business owners in a targeted way without investing substantial marketing dollars. For example a bank may spend a significant percentage of the loan amount for a single transaction just in the form of marketing costs.

It can be seen that problems faced by small business owners may include lack of financial education mistrust of financial institutions lack of available information about credit products at a single point of access and lack of document management systems to help collect and transmit required loan documents. On the other side of the transaction issues experienced by lenders may include high marketing costs lack of availability of a platform that consolidates products from other lenders for comparison lack of tools for matching businesses to credit needs based on underwriting criteria and lack of business analysis tools for monitoring the creditworthiness of their small business clients.

What are needed therefore are enhanced tools for analyzing the financial condition of small business borrowers and for matching appropriate credit products or credit arrangements between small business owners and lenders such as banking institutions alternative lenders and private money lenders.

In various embodiments the present invention can be used to bridge the gap between small business owners and lenders by matching the credit needs of small business owners with lender credit products. Aspects of the present invention may be used to match borrowers to best credit solutions and to provide electronic updates for the matched and unmatched borrowers. Also certain system embodiments can be employed to guide borrowers to apply for micro loans when creditworthiness is an issue which can improve their credit ratings. This can be accomplished by performing a detailed analysis of personal and business credit scores and recommending appropriate service providers who can improve their scores and creditworthiness.

In certain embodiments aspects of the present invention may permit financial institutions to establish their own credit product campaigns while centrally managing and tracking customer leads. A lender dashboard may be provided which includes a combination of lead management and work flow tools that allow bankers to direct leads to loan officers and to track the progress of leads while collecting necessary supporting documentation.

In various embodiments the invention includes a decision making engine that provides a single point of access for multiple lenders and their products. The engine can be programmed to allow small business owners to input their requirements and generate results based on those requirements. The engine may be programmed with matchmaking technology that can be used to pre qualify prospects for banks and other credit providers. Accordingly the decision making engine can integrate business logic with technology to provide intelligent results including allowing small business owners to store documents share technology with third party providers and integrate business credit and personal credit modules to allow banks to obtain pre qualified leads.

In various embodiments the present invention provides small business owners with the capacity to compare different financial products matched to their unique requirements. The present invention can provide an online decision making engine that is capable of determining the specific requirements of the small business owners and match it against the lenders underwriting criteria to determine the best product options available to the owners. The decision making engine may be programmed to generate results for multiple products from the same lender and multiple products from multiple lenders which is unique within the industry. For banks this provides a cost effective mechanism for obtaining pre qualified leads for small business owners. An online repository can be provided to improve the matchmaking and decisioning process. Small business owners can store financial records and other documents in the repository and share this information with banks and other service providers.

Aspects of the decision making engine may be programmed to facilitate ranking credit products based on certain qualitative and quantitative parameters. It can be considered a two way ranking system because it can take into account both the banks underwriting criteria as well as borrowers preferences. The ranking aspects of the engine are dynamic because they can change product rankings for example based on borrower feedback about actual product or service performance versus product or service characteristics as promised by lending institutions.

Information entered by the business owners can be processed with a business analysis tool at times referred to as a BizAnalyzer tool which helps businesses evaluate the probability of being approved for different loan products. As described below in more detail various embodiments of a business analysis tool can provide borrowers and lenders with a platform for benchmarking the risk profile of a business against the lending criteria for different financial products. Based on a weighted formula of recent underwriting trends the business analysis tool can generate an overall score e.g. on a scale from 0 100 indicative of the level of risk that a business presents to a potential lender. The assessment performed by the business analysis tool can be subdivided into one or more of the following sections personal credit score debt to income ratio time in business industry risk and or corporate risk among other potential financial or risk measurements. Data regarding these different financial and risk measurements can be updated through real time or near real time data communicated to the decision making engine such as from one or more external accounts or research data sources for example. In certain embodiments the business analysis tool can employ a formula e.g. an average or weighted average to determine recommendations and recommended service providers on the basis of risk factors that can be characterized as low medium or high for example as a function of the risk score calculation. For example the business analysis tool can recommend specific service providers that may help a small business owner take the steps necessary to decrease risk and thereby increase the chances of getting a loan. In certain embodiments the business analysis tool can create a snapshot of a borrower s risk level and how the owner can decrease that risk to a potential lender. Various embodiments of the present invention provide a business analysis tool that operates in an environment that is easy for users to navigate and to obtain access to the kinds of information that they need to evaluate borrowing and lending opportunities.

In one example of the operation of an embodiment of the invention a small business owner looking to apply for financing connects to a web site and enters business information financial information and a credit profile. The owner then selects the most important reason for seeking financing and preference among criteria such as interest rate higher loan amount or processing speed for example among other possible criteria. Once this information has been entered the decision making engine can automatically generate results for lending options compatible with the small business owners needs and provide multiple options per lender. In various embodiments small business owners can login to the decision making engine to create user profiles submit lending criteria and generate results based on particular credit or capital needs. The engine may also rank the lending products based on the criteria selected by borrowers the lenders underwriting criteria and or performance factors based on stated product criteria such as interest rates and processing times. The matching can be programmed and executed as two way matching wherein one or more of the preferences of the borrowers and matching underwriting criteria of the lenders is assigned a weighted mean leading to optional ranking of different available choices. The engine may also adjust the rankings by comparing a number of key variables such as interest rates and processing time against the actual performance of the lenders. Also new products introduced by existing lenders or new lenders may be automatically matched with the existing loan applications. The system may also provide real time electronic updates to borrowers as well as lending institutions.

The transaction processor may be operatively associated with one or more modules A D that perform various functions within the decision making engine . In various embodiments the modules A D may include software hardware firmware and or other types of computer readable instructions or devices programmed for executing various functions or tools that can be executed by the engine . For example a user presentation module A can be programmed to display different screen displays electronic notifications or user interface tools that permit users to issue commands to the engine or to access data stored within the engine . In another example a matching module B can be programmed to match credit product requirements and criteria of a borrower A with corresponding suitable requirements and criteria of one or more lenders B. A business analysis module C can be programmed to analyze risk factors and other business information associated with a business seeking a credit product. It can be appreciated that various other modules D may also be programmed to perform various functions or provide user interface tools within the engine . Various embodiments of the decision making engine can be programmed to match the needs of small business owners or other borrowers A with various types of credit products or credit arrangements offered by different lenders B such as banks or other lending institutions. For example the engine may be programmed for matching the requirements of small business owners A with the credit products offered by multiple banks B and comparing the multiple credit options.

In various embodiments the decision making engine may include one or more data storage media operatively associated with the transaction processor . The data storage media may include data and other information associated with one or more user accounts. Examples of data that may be stored in the data storage media include data related to credit products supporting document for applying for credit products risk factor data and many other kinds of financial information or data related to matching credit products between borrowers and lenders. The engine may also communicate with one or more external accounts to receive or transmit data. One or more of the external accounts may be financial accounts associated with the users for example. The engine may also be configured for communication with one or more research data sources . For example one or more of the research data sources may include a connection to a commercial credit score entity or to a source for loan documentation. In certain embodiments one or more external data sources may be operatively associated with the engine such as to provide a source of accounting data or other financial information associated with a user . For example one such external data source may include a data communication link to a QuickBooks account held by the user . In various embodiments the users may communicate or interact with the engine through a variety of communication devices . Examples of possible communication devices include personal computers e.g. laptops notebooks desktops etc. mobile phones smart phones personal data devices and many other devices which can connect to the engine through a wireless or wireline connection e.g. Internet intranet or another type of connection . For example the engine may be programmed to communicate with users by texting e mail communication or other like messaging systems.

After an application has been submitted by a borrower A the decision making engine can then process the data associated with the borrower A in an attempt to match the borrower A with one or more credit product offerings. For example the engine may match the requirements of campaigns established by one or more lenders B within the engine against one or more criteria of the borrower A to identify one or more matching credit product offerings. Examples of borrower A criteria may include various financial data risk factor data business asset information business debt information funding priorities loan amount minimum or maximum or various other factors as described herein. The matching may involve a best fit approach for example that identifies the lender B campaign that most closely matches the requirements and status of a given borrower A. In one example a credit product offering may be matched with a borrower A if at least a predetermined number of specified criteria can be correlated between the borrower A and at least one lender B.

In addition to data entered in the screen display the decision making engine may also access and process data previously entered or stored in one or more of the data storage media . In certain embodiments risk factor data or other information may be communicated to the engine for use by the business analysis module C by one or more of the external data sources . Data may be communicated to the engine on a periodic basis or through real time or near real time data feeds or updates. For example credit score data may be communicated to the engine on a periodic basis automatically when the business analysis tool is accessed and or in response to an update to other risk factor data. The business analysis tool may employ data derived from information entered into the screen display and or data derived from the engine in executing its analysis. A user may select a Submit button to initiate the processing of the business analysis tool and execution in connection with the engine to match various credit product offerings in connection with the business information and or risk factor information.

Referring again to a personal credit section describes analysis of the personal credit data which can be factored into the overall risk score . includes an example of a data table representation of personal credit scores compared against different product types or assets of the business. It can be appreciated that the engine can draw data from the data table to calculate a risk score associated with personal credit data among other metrics. For example a personal credit score of less than 550 for a business with account receivables could result in a lower risk score corresponding to a higher level of risk for potential lenders B . In this example a low indicator may correspond to a personal credit risk score in the range of 25 100 to 30 100 an average indicator may correspond to a personal credit risk score in the range of 30 100 to 70 100 and an excellent indicator may correspond to a personal credit risk score in the range of 70 100 to 100 100. Such risk scores may also be represented as a percentage or on another scale within the scope of the embodiments described herein.

With reference to the example screen displays shown in the business owner may be asked for a variety of information that can be used to match one or more appropriate credit products which correspond to the needs and borrowing situation of the owner. For example more information may be solicited regarding the history and age of business number of employees current business assets e.g. real estate or other property the legal structure of the business annual turnover operating expenses the relationship of the owner to the company date of birth the average annual revenue personal credit score and the current business bank. The owner may also provide information regarding any assets property or other collateral that might be used as security for a loan or other obligation. In another example the business owner may be asked about information regarding personal monthly expenses and about personal monthly income in order to calculate a debt to income DTI ratio. In addition to facilitate matching appropriate credit products with the needs and borrowing situation of the business owner a choice of priorities may be made in terms of what is important to the owner with respect to different loan attributes. For example the borrower may select priorities for fund requirements such as document requirements funding with low interest rates or funding with low processing fees among many other priorities.

As shown in the engine can be programmed to automatically generate results best suited to the business owner s requirements as corresponding to various credit product offerings by multiple lenders. A more detailed discussion of the various matching algorithms that may be employed by the engine have been included throughout the present disclosure.

In various embodiments the engine may provide a communication link to a tax credit program database wherein users can input ZIP code information and identify state tax credits available to them. In certain embodiments the engine may be integrated through application program interfaces APIs associated with QuickBooks software as described above small business accounting applications or other external data sources to provide direct data communication feeds of financial information associated with borrowers A or lenders B. In addition integrating APIs may be provided from banks for providing checking and money market information for example. History functionality may also be incorporated wherein registered users can track documents uploaded tagged shared or downloaded by the recipient.

In various embodiments the BizAnalyzer tool may be provided for processing risk factors associated with the profiles of different borrowers A and the types of credit products that may be offered to borrowers A. With reference to the screen display of the BizAnalyzer tool may provide a consolidated business analyzer report for a selected credit product or borrower A based on factors including opted loan amount risk factor or loan type e.g. unsecured real estate account receivables inventory equipment or other among other factors. As shown on tabs can be provided on the screen display which included the results of analysis performed on the information provided by the user . For example the tabs may include sections for risk assessment based on personal credit debt to income ratio time in business industry risk corporate risk and or other sections.

In various embodiments the BizAnalyzer tool may employ a cash flow analysis. The cash flow analysis may take into account the operating cash margin of the borrower A for example. In certain embodiments operating cash margin may be calculated by dividing the average business bank balance by the annual revenue of the borrower A. The operating cash margin ratio employed may be similar to a traditional profit margin ratio but may use cash flow from operations in place of either net income or operating income as the numerator. The operating cash margin ratio can provide a more robust indicator of performance based on cash generating ability as compared to a profit margin ratio with its focus on accrual based accounting income. The operating cash margin ratio may be used to highlight the timing of cash flows with respect to the timing of sales. Therefore the ratio can prove useful as part of a process to evaluate cash management performance as well as credit granting policies and receivable collections. Since cash flow margins are likely to exhibit substantial variations among companies in different industries it may be useful to focus a comparative analysis on companies within the same industry type. In certain embodiments a cash flow ratio in the range of 1 10 may represent a high risk a ratio in the range of 10 15 may represent a medium risk and a ratio above 15 may represent a low risk.

In various embodiments the BizAnalyzer tool may include a What if Scenario wherein business owners A can be permitted to see what matches they prospectively would have if a personal credit score for example goes up or down or another factor such as DTI ratio industry risk corporate risk time in business and or cash flow ratio changes. For example if the business owner A has a current credit score of 600 then a slider or other user interface tool can be used to adjust the score to see what credit product options would be available if the score rose to 680 or more. In another example a business having high DTI ratio could see what credit options would be available if DTI ratio falls to the low risk category. Such a What If Scenario feature can help businesses to understand the impact of their creditworthiness. A similar tool could be employed by lenders B too.

In various embodiments a tool can be provided to help lenders or banks to benchmark their credit products against a peer group based on a personal and business credit score threshold DTI ratio processing time and or cash flow thresholds. This tool can help the lenders to assess how competitive their products are compared to their competitors and the strength of their risk management in the context of small business credit products.

As shown in the lender B can view campaign activity by selecting an active campaign link. If there are any matches the engine can provide a link under the campaign column. Selecting a name in the campaign name column can be used to display a summary screen for the display as shown in for example. In another example selecting a group of matches in the screen display of can cause the list of to be displayed for the associated campaign. Selecting a specific matched result in the list of can generate the summary screen as shown in . In various embodiments if the lender B desires to communicate with a business owner A then the feature illustrated in can be employed to facilitate such communication. illustrate an example of a function for sharing documents between lenders B and borrowers A. illustrates an example of a function that can be used to modify the status of an application for a credit product offering.

In various embodiments the decision making engine can generate results for multiple credit products from the same lender B and or multiple credit products from multiple lenders B. This can provide a cost effective mechanism for generating pre qualified leads for small business owners. A small business owner looking to apply for financing can use the engine to enter business information financial information credit profile and select the most important reasons and preferences for seeking financing among factors such as interest rate loan amount or speed of getting funds for example. Once the information has been entered the engine can generate results for lending options compatible with small business owners needs and provide multiple options per lender. Small business owners can use the engine to create a user profile submit lending criteria and generate results based on particular needs. The matching performed by the engine can be configured as two way matching for example wherein the preferences of all borrowers A and matching underwriting criteria of all lenders B is assigned a weighted mean leading to choices being ranked. The engine may also be programmed to adjust the rankings by comparing a number of key borrower A preference variables like interest rates and processing time against the actual products of the lenders B. Also new products introduced by existing lenders or new lenders can be dynamically matched with existing loan applications on a real time or near real time basis. The engine can also provides real time e updates to borrowers as well as lending institutions.

The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the present invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. No particular aspect or aspects of the examples are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the present invention. For example no particular aspect or aspects of the examples of system architectures user interface layouts or screen displays described herein are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the invention.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art may recognize however that these sorts of focused discussions would not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention and therefore a more detailed description of such elements is not provided herein.

Any element expressed herein as a means for performing a specified function is intended to encompass any way of performing that function including for example a combination of elements that performs that function. Furthermore the invention as may be defined by such means plus function claims resides in the fact that the functionalities provided by the various recited means are combined and brought together in a manner as defined by the appended claims. Therefore any means that can provide such functionalities may be considered equivalents to the means shown herein.

In various embodiments modules or software can be used to practice certain aspects of the invention. For example software as a service SaaS models or application service provider ASP models may be employed as software application delivery models to communicate software applications to clients or other users. Such software applications can be downloaded through an Internet connection for example and operated either independently e.g. downloaded to a laptop or desktop computer system or through a third party service provider e.g. accessed through a third party web site . In addition cloud computing techniques may be employed in connection with various embodiments of the invention. In certain embodiments a module may include software firmware hardware or any reasonable combination thereof.

Moreover the processes associated with the present embodiments may be executed by programmable equipment such as computers. Software or other sets of instructions that may be employed to cause programmable equipment to execute the processes may be stored in any storage device such as for example a computer system non volatile memory an optical disk magnetic tape or magnetic disk. Furthermore some of the processes may be programmed when the computer system is manufactured or via a computer readable memory medium.

It can also be appreciated that certain process aspects described herein may be performed using instructions stored on a computer readable memory medium or media that direct a computer or computer system to perform process steps. A computer readable medium may include for example memory devices such as diskettes compact discs of both read only and read write varieties optical disk drives and hard disk drives. A computer readable medium may also include memory storage that may be physical virtual permanent temporary semi permanent and or semi temporary.

A computer computer system component or processor may be for example and without limitation a processor microcomputer minicomputer server mainframe laptop personal data assistant PDA wireless e mail device cellular phone pager processor fax machine scanner or any other programmable device configured to transmit and or receive data over a network. Computer systems and computer based devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing and communicating information. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external with respect to operation of the disclosed embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software including a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable PROM and or other computer readable memory media. In various embodiments a host engine loader filter platform or component may include various computers or computer systems or may include a reasonable combination of software firmware and or hardware.

The terms program software application and the like as used herein may include a sequence of instructions designed for execution on a computer system. A program computer program or software application may include a subroutine a function a procedure an object method an object implementation an executable application an applet a servlet a source code an object code a shared library dynamic load library and or other sequence of instructions designed for execution on a computer system.

In various embodiments of the present invention a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice embodiments of the present invention such substitution is within the scope of the present invention. Any of the servers described herein for example may be replaced by a server farm or other grouping of networked servers e.g. a group of server blades that are located and configured for cooperative functions. It can be appreciated that a server farm may serve to distribute workload between among individual components of the farm and may expedite computing processes by harnessing the collective and cooperative power of multiple servers. Such server farms may employ load balancing software that accomplishes tasks such as for example tracking demand for processing power from different machines prioritizing and scheduling tasks based on network demand and or providing backup contingency in the event of component failure or reduction in operability.

In general it may be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that various embodiments described herein or components or parts thereof may be implemented in many different embodiments of software firmware and or hardware or modules thereof. The software code or specialized control hardware used to implement some of the present embodiments is not limiting of the present invention. For example the embodiments described hereinabove may be implemented in computer software using any suitable computer programming language such as .NET SQL MySQL or HTML using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. Programming languages for computer software and other computer implemented instructions may be translated into machine language by a compiler or an assembler before execution and or may be translated directly at run time by an interpreter. Examples of assembly languages include ARM MIPS and x86 examples of high level languages include Ada BASIC C C C COBOL Fortran Java Lisp Pascal Object Pascal and examples of scripting languages include Bourne script JavaScript Python Ruby PHP and Perl Various embodiments may be employed in a Lotus Notes environment for example. Such software may be stored on any type of suitable computer readable medium or media such as for example a magnetic or optical storage medium. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiments are described without specific reference to the actual software code or specialized hardware components. The absence of such specific references is feasible because it is clearly understood that artisans of ordinary skill would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the embodiments of the present invention based on the description herein with only a reasonable effort and without undue experimentation.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods described herein may employ one or more electronic computer networks to promote communication among different components transfer data or to share resources and information. Such computer networks can be classified according to the hardware and software technology that is used to interconnect the devices in the network such as optical fiber Ethernet wireless LAN HomePNA power line communication or G.hn. The computer networks may also be embodied as one or more of the following types of networks local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN storage area network SAN or global area network GAN among other network varieties.

For example a WAN computer network may cover a broad area by linking communications across metropolitan regional or national boundaries. The network may use routers and or public communication links. One type of data communication network may cover a relatively broad geographic area e.g. city to city or country to country which uses transmission facilities provided by common carriers such as telephone service providers. In another example a GAN computer network may support mobile communications across multiple wireless LANs or satellite networks. In another example a VPN computer network may include links between nodes carried by open connections or virtual circuits in another network e.g. the Internet instead of by physical wires. The link layer protocols of the VPN can be tunneled through the other network. One VPN application can promote secure communications through the Internet. The VPN can also be used to separately and securely conduct the traffic of different user communities over an underlying network. The VPN may provide users with the virtual experience of accessing the network through an IP address location other than the actual IP address which connects the access device to the network.

The computer network may be characterized based on functional relationships among the elements or components of the network such as active networking client server or peer to peer functional architecture. The computer network may be classified according to network topology such as bus network star network ring network mesh network star bus network or hierarchical topology network for example. The computer network may also be classified based on the method employed for data communication such as digital and analog networks.

Embodiments of the methods systems and tools described herein may employ internetworking for connecting two or more distinct electronic computer networks or network segments through a common routing technology. The type of internetwork employed may depend on administration and or participation in the internetwork. Non limiting examples of internetworks include intranet extranet and Internet. Intranets and extranets may or may not have connections to the Internet. If connected to the Internet the intranet or extranet may be protected with appropriate authentication technology or other security measures. As applied herein an intranet can be a group of networks which employ Internet Protocol web browsers and or file transfer applications under common control by an administrative entity. Such an administrative entity could restrict access to the intranet to only authorized users for example or another internal network of an organization or commercial entity. As applied herein an extranet may include a network or internetwork generally limited to a primary organization or entity but which also has limited connections to the networks of one or more other trusted organizations or entities e.g. customers of an entity may be given access an intranet of the entity thereby creating an extranet .

Computer networks may include hardware elements to interconnect network nodes such as network interface cards NICs or Ethernet cards repeaters bridges hubs switches routers and other like components. Such elements may be physically wired for communication and or data connections may be provided with microwave links e.g. IEEE 802.12 or fiber optics for example. A network card network adapter or NIC can be designed to allow computers to communicate over the computer network by providing physical access to a network and an addressing system through the use of MAC addresses for example. A repeater can be embodied as an electronic device that receives and retransmits a communicated signal at a boosted power level to allow the signal to cover a telecommunication distance with reduced degradation. A network bridge can be configured to connect multiple network segments at the data link layer of a computer network while learning which addresses can be reached through which specific ports of the network. In the network the bridge may associate a port with an address and then send traffic for that address only to that port. In various embodiments local bridges may be employed to directly connect local area networks LANs remote bridges can be used to create a wide area network WAN link between LANs and or wireless bridges can be used to connect LANs and or to connect remote stations to LANs.

In various embodiments a hub may be employed which contains multiple ports. For example when a data packet arrives at one port of a hub the packet can be copied unmodified to all ports of the hub for transmission. A network switch or other devices that forward and filter OSI layer 2 datagrams between ports based on MAC addresses in data packets can also be used. A switch can possess multiple ports such that most of the network is connected directly to the switch or another switch that is in turn connected to a switch. The term switch can also include routers and bridges as well as other devices that distribute data traffic by application content e.g. a Web URL identifier . Switches may operate at one or more OSI model layers including physical data link network or transport i.e. end to end . A device that operates simultaneously at more than one of these layers can be considered a multilayer switch. In certain embodiments routers or other like networking devices may be used to forward data packets between networks using headers and forwarding tables to determine an optimum path through which to transmit the packets.

As employed herein an application server may be a server that hosts an API to expose business logic and business processes for use by other applications. Examples of application servers include J2EE or Java EE 5 application servers including WebSphere Application Server. Other examples include WebSphere Application Server Community Edition IBM Sybase Enterprise Application Server Sybase Inc WebLogic Server BEA JBoss Red Hat JRun Adobe Systems Apache Geronimo Apache Software Foundation Oracle OC4J Oracle Corporation Sun Java System Application Server Sun Microsystems and SAP Netweaver AS ABAP Java . Also application servers may be provided in accordance with the .NET framework including the Windows Communication Foundation .NET Remoting ADO.NET and ASP.NET among several other components. For example a Java Server Page JSP is a servlet that executes in a web container which is functionally equivalent to CGI scripts. JSPs can be used to create HTML pages by embedding references to the server logic within the page. The application servers may mainly serve web based applications while other servers can perform as session initiation protocol servers for instance or work with telephony networks. Specifications for enterprise application integration and service oriented architecture can be designed to connect many different computer network elements. Such specifications include Business Application Programming Interface Web Services Interoperability and Java EE Connector Architecture.

In various embodiments computers and computer systems described herein may have the following main components arithmetic and logic unit ALU control unit memory and input and output devices I O devices . These components can be interconnected by busses often comprising groups of wires or cables. The control unit ALU registers and basic I O and often other hardware closely linked with these sections can be collectively considered a central processing unit CPU for the computer system. The CPU may be constructed on a single integrated circuit or microprocessor.

The control unit control system or central controller directs the various components of a computer system. The control system decodes each instruction in a computer program and turns it into a series of control signals that operate other components of the computer system. To enhance performance or efficiency of operation the control system may alter the order of instructions. One component of the control unit is the program counter a memory register that tracks the location in memory from which the next instruction is to be read.

The ALU is capable of performing arithmetic and logic operations. The set of arithmetic operations that a particular ALU supports may be limited to adding and subtracting or might include multiplying or dividing trigonometry functions sine cosine etc. and square roots. Some may be programmed to operate on whole numbers integers while others use floating point to represent real numbers for example. An ALU may also compare numbers and return Boolean truth values e.g. true or false . Superscalar computers may contain multiple ALUs to facilitate processing multiple instructions at the same time. For example graphics processors and computers with SIMD and MIMD features often possess ALUs that can perform arithmetic operations on vectors and matrices. Certain computer systems may include one or more RAM cache memories configured to move more frequently needed data into the cache automatically.

Examples of peripherals that may be used in connection with certain embodiments of the invention include input output devices such as keyboards mice screen displays touch screens pens monitors printers hard disk drives floppy disk drives joysticks and image scanners.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein may divide functions between or among separate CPUs creating a multiprocessing configuration. For example multiprocessor and multi core multiple CPUs on a single integrated circuit computer systems with co processing capabilities may be employed. Also multitasking may be employed as a computer processing technique to handle simultaneous execution of multiple computer programs.

In various embodiments the computer systems data storage media or modules described herein may be configured and or programmed to include one or more of the above described electronic computer based elements and components or computer architecture. In addition these elements and components may be particularly configured to execute the various rules algorithms programs processes and method steps described herein.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described and claimed herein it should be apparent however that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention as described and claimed herein.

