---

title: Molten salt extraction of transuranic and reactive fission products from used uranium oxide fuel
abstract: Used uranium oxide fuel is detoxified by extracting transuranic and reactive fission products into molten salt. By contacting declad and crushed used uranium oxide fuel with a molten halide salt containing a minor fraction of the respective uranium trihalide, transuranic and reactive fission products partition from the fuel to the molten salt phase, while uranium oxide and non-reactive, or noble metal, fission products remain in an insoluble solid phase. The salt is then separated from the fuel via draining and distillation. By this method, the bulk of the decay heat, fission poisoning capacity, and radiotoxicity are removed from the used fuel. The remaining radioactivity from the noble metal fission products in the detoxified fuel is primarily limited to soft beta emitters. The extracted transuranic and reactive fission products are amenable to existing technologies for group uranium/transuranic product recovery and fission product immobilization in engineered waste forms.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08734738&OS=08734738&RS=08734738
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08734738
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121101
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC07 05ID14517 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and the Battelle Energy Alliance.

This invention relates generally to nuclear reactors used in the generation of power and is particularly directed to the processing of used uranium oxide fuel from nuclear reactors.

Molten salt systems are currently being used to treat used metal fuel from nuclear reactors. Indeed an electrometallurgical treatment process has been developed by Argonne National Laboratory and is currently deployed at Idaho National Laboratory for the treatment of 25 MTHM Metric Tons of Heavy Metal of metal uranium and uranium alloy fuels from Experimental Breeder Reactor II EBR II and the Fast Flux Test Facility. In this process used or spent metal uranium alloy fuels are broken up or chopped and immersed in a molten salt electrolyte of LiCl KCl UClat 500 C. An electric potential is applied to anodically dissolve uranium metal from the used fuel and simultaneously deposit refined uranium metal on a solid cathode from which the uranium metal fuel is recovered for reuse. In this electrorefining process transuranic products including Pu Np Am and Cm and reactive fission product metals including Cs Rb Ba Sr Y Nd Ce La Pr Sm Eu and Gd partition from the used fuel to the molten salt via exchange uranium trichloride per the following general reaction mechanism M UCl MCl U 1 

Non reactive or noble metal fission products including Zr Mo Ru Pd Tc and Rh remain with the undissolved cladding hulls at the anode where they are subsequently removed and processed into a metallic waste form for disposal. Reactive non metal fission products including Te Se I and Br diffuse into the electrorefining salt as anions. After sufficient accumulation in the electrorefining salt transuranic constituents may be co recovered with uranium using a liquid cadmium cathode to produce a group uranium transuranic metal product. The remaining reactive fission products in the electrorefining salt with or without the transuranic constituents may be processed into an engineered ceramic waste form for disposal. The prescribed electrometallurgical treatment process is well suited for a metal fuel cycle and variations of this process are practiced in fuel recovery.

In an effort to extend the electrometallurgical treatment process to oxide fuels a process has been developed by researchers at Argonne National Laboratory to convert uranium oxide to metal as a front end step to electrorefining. In this process commonly referred to as oxide reduction or electrolytic reduction declad and crushed uranium oxide fuel is loaded into a permeable steel cathode basket and immersed in a molten salt electrolyte of LiCl LiO at 650 C. An electric potential is applied between the oxide fuel loaded cathode basket and an immersed platinum anode to electrochemically reduce the uranium oxide to metal thereby liberating its oxygen ions to the molten salt where they are simultaneously oxidized to oxygen gas at the anode. The reduced uranium oxide fuel is then amenable to the prescribed electrorefining process. Indeed electrolytic reduction and electrorefining has been applied to used uranium oxide fuel where refined uranium metal devoid of fission products has been successfully produced at bench or small scale. Applications of the oxide reduction process are currently being pursued although this technique has not yet been deployed on a large scale for use with used uranium oxide fuels.

In light of the above discussed there is a need for a method to process uranium oxide fuels using a single molten salt system without converting uranium oxide to metal.

The Applicant has developed a novel method to detoxify used uranium oxide fuel by extracting transuranic and reactive fission products into molten salt. By contacting declad and crushed used uranium oxide fuel with a molten halide salt containing a minor fraction of the respective uranium trihalide transuranic including Pu Np Am and Cm and reactive fission products including Cs Rb Ba Sr Y Nd Ce La Pr Sm Eu Gd Te Se I and Br partition from the fuel to the molten salt phase while uranium oxide and non reactive or noble metal fission products including Zr Mo Ru Pd Tc and Rh remain in an insoluble solid phase. The salt is then separated from the fuel via draining and distillation. By this method the bulk of the decay heat typically more than 99 for a nominal used uranium oxide fuel fission poisoning capacity primarily from the lanthanide fission products and radiotoxicity particularly from Cs 137 Sr 90 I 129 and transuranic constituents are removed from the used fuel. The remaining radioactivity from the noble metal fission products in the detoxified fuel is primarily limited to soft beta emitters which are much easier to shield and thereby substantially simplifies subsequent handling storage treatment disposal or reuse of the fuel. The extracted transuranic and reactive fission products are amenable to existing technologies for group uranium transuranic product recovery and fission product immobilization in engineered waste forms.

By contacting declad i.e. the cladding which contains the uranium oxide fuel in an operating nuclear reactor and which has been separated from the uranium oxide fuel after removal from the reactor and crushed used uranium oxide fuel with a molten halide salt containing a minor or small fraction of the respective uranium trihalide e.g. LiCl KCl UClat 500 C. transuranic and reactive fission products partition from the fuel to the molten salt phase while uranium oxide and non reactive noble metal fission products remain in an insoluble solid phase. The salt is then separated from the fuel via draining and distillation after which the recovered salt may be returned to the molten salt pool for subsequent extractions.

A simplified flow diagram of this molten salt extraction technique including salt draining and distillation is shown in . A simplified diagram of this molten salt extraction technique as applied to a typical used uranium oxide fuel i.e. from a light water reactor is shown in . The percentage composition of a typical declad and crushed uranium oxide fuel excluding oxygen as well as the composition of the extracted fuel constituents and the composition of the fuel after molten salt extraction is also shown in the latter figure. Particulate uranium oxide fuel together with the various transuranic and fission products are placed in a permeable container which is lowered into a molten salt pool containing a minor fraction of uranium trihalide for extraction of the transuranic and reactive fission products from the balance of the fuel components. This allows the molten salt to enter the permeable container and contact the fuel for producing the exchange reaction Transuranic and reactive fission products go into the salt phase and are free to disperse throughout the molten salt pool within and outside of the permeable container. Once the extraction is complete the permeable container is lifted out of the molten salt pool with the uranium oxide fuel remaining in the permeable container together with the noble metal fission products and some residual salt. Some of the residual salt is then allowed to drain from the container . The container is then placed in a closed system to distill residual salt from the container under reduced pressure and elevated temperature where the optimum pressure and temperature are determined using conventional means based upon the specific halide salt system being used. The distilled salt may then be returned to the molten salt pool to further process additional used uranium oxide fuel. By this technique the bulk of the decay heat i.e. 99 for a typical used uranium oxide fuel the fission poisoning capacity primarily from lanthanides and the radiotoxicity primarily from Cs 137 Sr 90 I 129 and the transuranic constituents are removed from the used fuel. The remaining radioactivity from the noble metal fission products in the detoxified fuel is primarily limited to soft beta emitters which are much easier to shield thereby offering substantial advantages in terms of improved safety and reduced complexity and costs in subsequent handling storage treatment disposal or reuse of the uranium oxide fuel. Transuranic and reactive fission products that accumulate in the molten salt can be further processed to recover a group uranium transuranic product and to dispose of fission product waste using existing technologies.

The molten salt extraction technique is based on the ability of uranium trihalides to preferentially exchange their halogen atoms in favor of oxygen atoms from transuranic and reactive fission products in used uranium oxide fuel to form uranium oxide and transuranic reactive fission product halides per the following general reaction mechanism UM MO UO MX 2 

This mechanism is thermodynamically favored in the presence of UF UCl UBrand The Gibbs free energies of formation G for select mono di tri and tetra valent metal oxide reactions that are perceived to occur in a chloride system accounting for charge balance in the respective reaction mechanisms are shown in Table I. These Gibbs free energies represent the propensity that a particular reaction will occur where the more negative the Gibbs free energy is the more likely that particular reaction will spontaneously initiate and proceed to completion. Similar thermodynamic values are found for the respective reaction mechanisms in fluoride bromide and iodide systems.

While the extractions discussed above could be performed solely in a molten uranium trihalide system the addition of other like halide salts assists in lowering the operating temperature of the molten salt system. For example uranium trichloride UCl melts at 837 C. whereas a eutectic mixture of LiCl KCl melts at 354 C. Thus a minor fraction of UCl approximately 10 wt in LiCl KCl eutectic a commonly used molten salt electrolyte could be used at 400 500 C. to effect the uranium oxide fuel extractions discussed above. The alkali Li Na K Rb and Cs halides are particularly useful in lowering the melting point of a molten salt containing the respective uranium trihalide. Thus a minor fraction of uranium trihalide UF UCl UBr or UI in combination with one or more of the respective alkali halides LiF NaF KF RbF CsF for a fluoride salt system LiCl NaCl KCl RbCl CsCl for a chloride salt system LiBr NaBr KBr RbBr CsBr for a bromide salt system or LiI NaI KI RbI CsI for an iodide salt system may be used to effect the uranium oxide fuel extractions discussed above although the operating temperature will vary depending on the melting point of the chosen halide salt system. Typically fluoride salts have higher melting points m.p. than those of chlorides followed by those of bromides then those of iodides i.e. m.p. of fluoride salts m.p of chloride salts m.p. of bromide salts m.p of iodide salts.

With reference again to after the extraction of transuranic and reactive fission products from used uranium oxide fuel into a select molten salt system is complete the permeable container holding the detoxified uranium oxide particulate is lifted above the molten salt pool whereupon residual molten salt is allowed to drain from the fuel particulate within the permeable container. The fuel laden permeable container is further removed from the molten salt extraction system and subjected to elevated temperature and reduced pressure within a closed system to distill salt adhering to the fuel particulate and permeable container. The operating conditions for the salt distillation operation are dependent upon the chosen halide salt system. Typically fluoride salts have a lower vapor pressure P for a given temperature than those of chlorides followed by those of bromides then those of iodides i.e. Pof fluoride salts 

The contacting of uranium trihalides with used uranium oxide fuel could also involve the formation of uranium oxyhalides per the following general reaction mechanism. UX MO UOX MX 3 

In this mechanism the uranium trihalide UX incompletely exchanges its halogen atoms with oxygen atoms from transuranic reactive fission products MO to form uranium oxyhalides UOX and transuranic reactive fission product halides MX . The uranium oxyhalides can be decomposed under an applied electric potential 0.1 V or at elevated temperatures such as those prescribed above for the salt distillation system .

The reaction of uranium trihalides directly with uranium oxides could also lead to uranium oxyhalide formation per the following general reaction mechanism. UX UO UOX 4 

This latter mechanism enables the exchange of uranium ions between the molten salt and the insoluble uranium oxide phases. Accordingly the uranium 235 content of the uranium in the molten salt phase and the uranium 235 content of the uranium oxide fuel can blend. Thus this mechanism provides some control of the uranium 235 content of the detoxified uranium oxide fuel based on the uranium 235 content of the uranium trihalide that is loaded into the molten salt extraction system. As discussed above the uranium oxyhalide phase can be decomposed under an applied electric potential 0.1 V or at elevated temperatures such as those prescribed for the salt distillation system .

Referring to there is shown in the form of a flow sheet the various possible alternatives in the sequential step wise handling and treatment of uranium oxide fuel and transuranic and reactive fission products available in the molten salt extraction method of the present invention. The molten salt extraction of transuranic and reactive fission products from used uranium oxide fuel offers a variety of benefits regarding subsequent handling storage treatment disposal or reuse of the fuel and its constituents in both the soluble molten salt and insoluble uranium oxide and noble metal fission products phases. With reference first to the soluble molten salt phase the extraction of transuranic and reactive fission products at step into a molten halide salt containing a minor fraction of the respective uranium trihalide allows for subsequent separation and recovery of transuranics along with uranium in a group uranium transuranic metal product recovered at step using existing technologies. The group uranium transuranic metal product could be fabricated into reactor fuel at step particularly for fast reactors where transuranic constituents are burned. The molten salt with or without group uranium transuranic recovery is also amenable to stabilization in an engineered ceramic waste form at step for disposal as shown at step .

Devoid of transuranic and reactive fission products via molten salt extraction at step subsequent handling of the insoluble treated uranium oxide and noble metal fission products phase is substantially simplified by the predominant absence of decay heat fission poisoning capacity and radiotoxicity. Thus subsequent storage disposal treatment or reuse of the treated fuel could be performed with substantially less shielding and fewer radiological controls. The treated fuel could be stored or disposed of at step . The treated fuel could also be subjected to additional processing at step to remove noble metal fission products as needed for subsequent storage or disposal of the fuel at step . For example the removal of technetium 99 could render the treated uranium oxide fuel acceptable for near surface disposal as opposed to deep geological disposal that is required for spent fuel. Furthermore additional processing to remove noble metal fission products from the treated uranium oxide fuel at step could include recovery of valuable platinum group metals i.e. Ru Pd Rh. With or without additional processing for noble metal removal the treated uranium oxide fuel could be fabricated into fuel for reuse in a nuclear reactor at step . Given a nominal uranium 235 content of 1 in used uranium oxide fuel the treated uranium oxide could be fabricated into fuel without any adjustment in uranium 235 content for reuse in a heavy water reactor. With upblending or enriching of uranium 235 to a nominal 3 5 enrichment the treated uranium oxide could be fabricated into fuel for reuse in a light water reactor at step . Upblending of uranium 235 in the treated uranium oxide fuel could occur via the molten salt extraction process i.e. using a higher uranium 235 content in the respective uranium trihalide or subsequent to the molten salt extraction process i.e. using a separate higher uranium 235 enrichment uranium blend material.

A benefit of the molten salt extraction process is its application to short decay fuels e.g. less than one year after removal from a reactor given the resistance of molten salts to radiolytic decomposition. In contrast conventional aqueous processing e.g. Plutonium Uranium Extraction PUREX requires used uranium oxide fuels to decay for several years prior to processing to limit radiolytic decomposition of its aqueous and organic media. Furthermore the absence of the hydrogenous media in the molten salt extraction process lessens criticality concerns thereby enabling higher actinide densities and lower operating volumes for a given throughput of used fuel. Alternately the molten salt extraction process could serve as a front end process to aqueous processing which could be applied for residual fission product removal from detoxified uranium oxide fuel.

In summary a new technique has been defined to detoxify used uranium oxide fuel by extracting transuranic and reactive fission products into a soluble molten salt phase leaving uranium oxide and noble metal fission products in an insoluble solid phase that can be subsequently separated from the salt via draining and distillation. The molten salt extraction technique is based on the ability of uranium trihalides to preferentially exchange their halogen atoms in favor of oxygen atoms from transuranic and reactive fission product halides. While this technique has been demonstrated in bench scale experiments with used uranium oxide fuel in molten LiCl KCl UClat 500 C. this technique might function at lower temperatures in other halide salt systems including other chloride fluoride bromide or iodide base salts with a minor or small fraction of the respective uranium trihalide. The molten salt extraction technique offers potential benefits regarding the subsequent handling storage treatment disposal or reuse of used uranium oxide fuel including recycle into nuclear fuels.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it will be obvious to those skilled in the relevant arts that changes and modifications may be made without departing from the invention in its broader aspects. Therefore the aim in the appended claims is to cover all such changes and modifications that fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention. The matter set forth in the foregoing description and accompanying drawings is offered by way of illustration only and not as a limitation. The actual scope of the invention is intended to be defined in the following claims when viewed in their proper perspective based on the prior art.

