---

title: Activity distribution between multiple devices
abstract: A first application, operating on a first client device, may perform a task. As part of performing the task, the first application may generate a message that includes a command, data, and a list of client devices suitable for invoking the command. The first client device may determine whether the first client device is in the list. If the first client device is in the list, the first client device may transmit the message to a local application on the first client device, to further perform the task by invoking the command on the data. If the first client device is not in the list, the first client device may select a second client device from the list, and transmit, via a server device, the message to the second client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09002930&OS=09002930&RS=09002930
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09002930
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120420
---
User interaction with client devices can be modeled as a series of activities that when combined allow a user to perform a task. Often these tasks include the use of multiple applications on the client device. For instance a task that involves streaming an online video may include the activities of using the client device s web browser to find a link to the online video accessing the link to launch the client device s video player and playing out the online video via the video player.

In an example embodiment a first application operating on a first client device may perform a task. As part of performing the task the first application may generate a message that includes a command data and a list of client devices suitable for invoking the command. The first client device may determine whether the first client device is in the list. If the first client device is in the list the first client device may i transmit the message to a local application on the first client device and ii the local application may further perform the task by invoking the command on the data. If the first client device is not in the list the first client device may i select a second client device from the list and ii transmit via a server device the message to the second client device. The message as transmitted via the server device may be configured to cause invocation of the command on the data by a remote application to further perform the task.

The first client device may make use of an article of manufacture including a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon program instructions that upon execution by a first client device cause the first client device to perform operations to perform steps of one or more embodiments.

Alternatively or additionally the first client device may comprise a processor a communication interface and data storage containing program instructions. These program instructions upon execution by the processor may cause the first client device to perform operations to perform steps of one or more embodiments.

These as well as other aspects advantages and alternatives will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description with reference where appropriate to the accompanying drawings. Further it should be understood that the description provided in this summary section and elsewhere in this document is intended to illustrate the claimed subject matter by way of example and not by way of limitation.

A user s interaction with a client device such as a smartphone or tablet computer can be modeled as a series of activities that when combined allow the user to carry out a task. Each activity may be represented by a particular screen application or application state on the client device. As the user goes from activity to activity the underlying applications may communicate with one another by transmitting intents.

For example suppose that a user is viewing in a web browser application a web page that contains a link to a video. This web page and or the act of viewing the web page may represent an activity. When the user selects the link the client device s media player may be launched to play the video. The video playback and or the act of viewing the video playback may represent another activity and the combination of displaying the web page receiving the user s selection of the link and launching the media player to play the video represents a task.

When the user selects the link the web browser may transmit an intent to the media player. The intent may include a command e.g. play and data e.g. a uniform resource location URL of where the video can be found . Upon receiving the intent the media player may invoke the command on the data.

Currently tasks are carried out on a single device. However there are a number of scenarios in which it may be useful to carry out tasks across multiple devices. For the example above if the user is viewing the web page on a smartphone he or she may wish to view the video playout on a device with a larger screen such as a tablet computer personal computer or television. In this scenario the web browser might transmit the intent to a media player on the tablet computer personal computer or television rather than to a media player on the smartphone. As another example a user could be browsing the web on a personal computer come across a phone number to call and transmit an intent to call that number to a cell phone. The cell phone could then place the call.

In these ways a task can be distributed across multiple devices by performing some activities on some devices and other activities on other devices. The device that performs a given activity may be the device that is best suited to carry out e.g. to perform that activity.

Other types of scenarios could also benefit from this distribution of activities. For example a user might want to use one device to perform a first activity temporarily switch to another device to perform a second activity and then switch back to the initial device to either continue performing the first activity or to perform a third activity. The result of the second activity may be transmitted to the initial device.

For instance suppose that a user is drafting an email on his or her tablet computer. The user would like to attach a picture of the user s new puppy to the email but does not have such a picture available on the tablet computer. So perhaps at the user s direction the tablet computer may transmit to a camera device an intent to take a picture. The camera device may receive the intent and the user may take a picture of the puppy. The camera may then transmit the result of this picture taking activity back to the tablet computer. The user can attach the picture to the email and continue drafting the email.

Clearly there are many possible scenarios that can be facilitated by the general concepts introduced by these embodiments. Thus these examples are not intended to be limiting. For instance the embodiments herein can facilitate the sharing of activities between two or more users e.g. one user can transmit an intent to play a video to a group of his or her friends . In some cases this sharing may be between users who are already associated with one another such as through a social networking or instant messaging service.

Regardless of the type of scenario the communication between devices may be mediated by one or more server devices. For example the devices that perform the task may be associated with one another and a record of this association may be stored on the server device. For instance both devices may register as being associated with one another via a web page on the server device or one device might enter a serial number of the other device or take a picture of a bar code or QR code of the other device to indicate the association. Associated devices may transmit intents and or results to one another through the server device.

The methods devices and systems described herein can be implemented using various types of client devices and possibly cloud based server devices. Under aspects of this paradigm client devices such as mobile phones and tablet computers may offload some processing and storage responsibilities to remote server devices. At least some of the time these client services are able to communicate via a network such as the Internet with the server devices. As a result applications that operate on the client devices may also have a persistent server based component.

The server devices described herein may not necessarily be associated with a client server architecture and therefore may be interchangeably referred to as computing devices. Similarly the client devices described herein also may not necessarily be associated with a client server architecture and therefore may be interchangeably referred to as user devices. 

This section describes general system and device architectures for such client devices and server devices. However the methods devices and systems presented in the subsequent sections may operate under different paradigms as well. Thus the embodiments of this section are merely examples of how these methods devices and systems can be enabled.

Network may be for example the Internet or some other form of public or private Internet Protocol IP network. Thus client devices and may communicate using packet switching technologies. Nonetheless network may also incorporate at least some circuit switching technologies and client devices and may communicate via circuit switching alternatively or in addition to packet switching.

A server device may also communicate via network . Particularly server device may communicate with client devices and according to one or more network protocols and or application level protocols to facilitate the use of network based or cloud based computing on these client devices. Server device may include integrated data storage e.g. memory disk drives etc. and may also be able to access a separate server data storage . Communication between server device and server data storage may be direct via network or both direct and via network as illustrated in . Server data storage may store application data that is used to facilitate the operations of applications performed by client devices and and server device .

Although only three client devices one server device and one server data storage are shown in communication system may include any number of each of these components. For instance communication system may comprise millions of client devices thousands of server devices and or thousands of server data storages. Furthermore client devices may take on forms other than those in .

User interface may comprise user input devices such as a keyboard a keypad a touch screen a computer mouse a track ball a joystick and or other similar devices now known or later developed. User interface may also comprise user display devices such as one or more cathode ray tubes CRT liquid crystal displays LCD light emitting diodes LEDs displays using digital light processing DLP technology printers light bulbs and or other similar devices now known or later developed. Additionally user interface may be configured to generate audible output s via a speaker speaker jack audio output port audio output device earphones and or other similar devices now known or later developed. In some embodiments user interface may include software circuitry or another form of logic that can transmit data to and or receive data from external user input output devices.

Communication interface may include one or more wireless interfaces and or wireline interfaces that are configurable to communicate via a network such as network shown in . The wireless interfaces if present may include one or more wireless transceivers such as a BLUETOOTH transceiver a Wifi transceiver perhaps operating in accordance with an IEEE 802.11 standard e.g. 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n a WiMAX transceiver perhaps operating in accordance with an IEEE 802.16 standard a Long Term Evolution LTE transceiver perhaps operating in accordance with a 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP standard and or other types of wireless transceivers configurable to communicate via local area or wide area wireless networks. The wireline interfaces if present may include one or more wireline transceivers such as an Ethernet transceiver a Universal Serial Bus USB transceiver or similar transceiver configurable to communicate via a twisted pair wire a coaxial cable a fiber optic link or other physical connection to a wireline device or network.

In some embodiments communication interface may be configured to provide reliable secured and or authenticated communications. For each communication described herein information for ensuring reliable communications e.g. guaranteed message delivery can be provided perhaps as part of a message header and or footer e.g. packet message sequencing information encapsulation header s and or footer s size time information and transmission verification information such as cyclic redundancy check CRC and or parity check values . Communications can be made secure e.g. be encoded or encrypted and or decrypted decoded using one or more cryptographic protocols and or algorithms such as but not limited to the data encryption standard DES the advanced encryption standard AES the Rivest Shamir and Adleman RSA algorithm the Diffie Hellman algorithm and or the Digital Signature Algorithm DSA . Other cryptographic protocols and or algorithms may be used instead of or in addition to those listed herein to secure and then decrypt decode communications.

Processor may include one or more general purpose processors e.g. microprocessors and or one or more special purpose processors e.g. digital signal processors DSPs graphical processing units GPUs floating point processing units FPUs network processors or application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Processor may be configured to execute computer readable program instructions that are contained in data storage and or other instructions to perform various functions described herein.

Data storage may include one or more non transitory computer readable storage media that can be read or accessed by processor . The one or more computer readable storage media may include volatile and or non volatile storage components such as optical magnetic organic or other memory or disc storage which can be integrated in whole or in part with processor . In some embodiments data storage may be implemented using a single physical device e.g. one optical magnetic organic or other memory or disc storage unit while in other embodiments data storage may be implemented using two or more physical devices.

Data storage may also include program data that can be used by processor to perform functions described herein. In some embodiments data storage may include or have access to additional data storage components or devices e.g. cluster data storages described below .

Server device and server data storage device may store applications and application data at one or more places accessible via network . These places may be data centers containing numerous servers and storage devices. The exact physical location connectivity and configuration of server device and server data storage device may be unknown and or unimportant to client devices. Accordingly server device and server data storage device may be referred to as cloud based devices that are housed at various remote locations. One possible advantage of such could based computing is to offload processing and data storage from client devices thereby simplifying the design and requirements of these client devices.

In some embodiments server device and server data storage device may be a single computing device residing in a single data center. In other embodiments server device and server data storage device may include multiple computing devices in a data center or even multiple computing devices in multiple data centers where the data centers are located in diverse geographic locations. For example depicts each of server device and server data storage device potentially residing in a different physical location.

In some embodiments each of the server clusters and may have an equal number of server devices an equal number of cluster data storages and an equal number of cluster routers. In other embodiments however some or all of the server clusters and may have different numbers of server devices different numbers of cluster data storages and or different numbers of cluster routers. The number of server devices cluster data storages and cluster routers in each server cluster may depend on the computing task s and or applications assigned to each server cluster.

In the server cluster for example server devices can be configured to perform various computing tasks of server device . In one embodiment these computing tasks can be distributed among one or more of server devices . Server devices and in server clusters and may be configured the same or similarly to server devices in server cluster . On the other hand in some embodiments server devices and each may be configured to perform different functions. For example server devices may be configured to perform one or more functions of server device and server devices and server device may be configured to perform functions of one or more other server devices. Similarly the functions of server data storage device can be dedicated to a single server cluster or spread across multiple server clusters.

Cluster data storages and of the server clusters and respectively may be data storage arrays that include disk array controllers configured to manage read and write access to groups of hard disk drives. The disk array controllers alone or in conjunction with their respective server devices may also be configured to manage backup or redundant copies of the data stored in cluster data storages to protect against disk drive failures or other types of failures that prevent one or more server devices from accessing one or more cluster data storages.

Similar to the manner in which the functions of server device and server data storage device can be distributed across server clusters and various active portions and or backup redundant portions of these components can be distributed across cluster data storages and . For example some cluster data storages and may be configured to store backup versions of data stored in other cluster data storages and

Cluster routers and in server clusters and respectively may include networking equipment configured to provide internal and external communications for the server clusters. For example cluster routers in server cluster may include one or more packet switching and or routing devices configured to provide i network communications between server devices and cluster data storage via cluster network and or ii network communications between the server cluster and other devices via communication link to network . Cluster routers and may include network equipment similar to cluster routers and cluster routers and may perform networking functions for server clusters and that cluster routers perform for server cluster

Additionally the configuration of cluster routers and can be based at least in part on the data communication requirements of the server devices and cluster storage arrays the data communications capabilities of the network equipment in the cluster routers and the latency and throughput of the local cluster networks the latency throughput and cost of the wide area network connections and and or other factors that may contribute to the cost speed fault tolerance resiliency efficiency and or other design goals of the system architecture.

As shown in client device may include a communication interface a user interface a processor and data storage all of which may be communicatively linked together by a system bus network or other connection mechanism .

Communication interface functions to allow client device to communicate using analog or digital modulation with other devices access networks and or transport networks. Thus communication interface may facilitate circuit switched and or packet switched communication such as POTS communication and or IP or other packetized communication. For instance communication interface may include a chipset and antenna arranged for wireless communication with a radio access network or an access point. Also communication interface may take the form of a wireline interface such as an Ethernet Token Ring or USB port. Communication interface may also take the form of a wireless interface such as a Wifi BLUETOOTH global positioning system GPS or wide area wireless interface e.g. WiMAX or LTE . However other forms of physical layer interfaces and other types of standard or proprietary communication protocols may be used over communication interface . Furthermore communication interface may comprise multiple physical communication interfaces e.g. a Wifi interface a BLUETOOTH interface and a wide area wireless interface .

User interface may function to allow client device to interact with a human or non human user such as to receive input from a user and to provide output to the user. Thus user interface may include input components such as a keypad keyboard touch sensitive or presence sensitive panel computer mouse trackball joystick microphone still camera and or video camera. User interface may also include one or more output components such as a display screen which for example may be combined with a touch sensitive panel CRT LCD LED a display using DLP technology printer light bulb and or other similar devices now known or later developed. User interface may also be configured to generate audible output s via a speaker speaker jack audio output port audio output device earphones and or other similar devices now known or later developed. In some embodiments user interface may include software circuitry or another form of logic that can transmit data to and or receive data from external user input output devices. Additionally or alternatively client device may support remote access from another device via communication interface or via another physical interface not shown .

Processor may comprise one or more general purpose processors e.g. microprocessors and or one or more special purpose processors e.g. DSPs GPUs FPUs network processors or ASICs . Data storage may include one or more volatile and or non volatile storage components such as magnetic optical flash or organic storage and may be integrated in whole or in part with processor . Data storage may include removable and or non removable components.

Generally speaking processor may be capable of executing program instructions e.g. compiled or non compiled program logic and or machine code stored in data storage to perform the various functions described herein. Therefore data storage may include a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon program instructions that upon execution by client device cause client device to perform any of the methods processes or functions disclosed in this specification and or the accompanying drawings. The execution of program instructions by processor may result in processor using data .

By way of example program instructions may include an operating system e.g. an operating system kernel device driver s and or other modules and one or more application programs e.g. address book email web browsing social networking and or gaming applications installed on client device . Similarly data may include operating system data and application data . Operating system data may be accessible primarily to operating system and application data may be accessible primarily to one or more of application programs . Application data may be arranged in a file system that is visible to or hidden from a user of client device .

Application programs may communicate with operating system through one or more application programming interfaces APIs . These APIs may facilitate for instance application programs reading and or writing application data transmitting or receiving information via communication interface receiving or displaying information on user interface and so on.

In some vernaculars application programs may be referred to as apps for short. Additionally application programs may be downloadable to client device through one or more online application stores or application markets. However application programs can also be installed on client device in other ways such as via a web browser or through a physical interface e.g. a USB port on client device .

As an example of the types of activities that the block diagram of might represent activity could be an email application displaying an email. The email could contain a link e.g. a URL or some other type of reference to a web site. If the user clicks on the link an intent i.e. intent to use the client device s web browser to access the web site may be generated. This intent may take the form of a message generated by the email application. Alternatively this message may be generated by the client device s operating system or by some other application operating on the client device. The message may include a command such as a GET or OPEN directive data e.g. the URL and a destination e.g. the web browser application .

If the web browser is operating on the client device the intent may be delivered to the web browser. If the web browser is not operating on the client device the web browser application may be launched e.g. by the client device s operating system and then the intent may be delivered to the web browser. The intent may be transmitted and received via various types of communication techniques including but not limited to inter process communication. Possibly in response to receiving the intent the web browser may invoke the command on the data. Accordingly the web browser may retrieve and display the web page as activity .

This web page may in turn contain a link or some other type of reference to a video that can be played by the client device. If the user clicks on this link another intent i.e. intent to use the client device s media player to play the video may be formed. This intent may also take the form of a message containing a command e.g. a PLAY directive data e.g. a URL of where the video can be found and a destination e.g. the media player .

Like the message sent to the web browser if the media player is operating on the client device the intent may be delivered to the media player. If the media player is not operating on the client device the media player application may be launched e.g. by the client device s operating system and then the intent may be delivered to the media player. Possibly in response to receiving the intent the media player may invoke the command on the data. Accordingly the media player may retrieve and play the video as activity .

This is just one possible example of a combination of activities making up a task. The block diagram of could represent other combinations of activities arranged to accomplish other tasks. Nonetheless in this example each of the activities as well as the task are performed on the same client device. The embodiments herein introduce among other features the ability to distribute activities of a task across multiple client devices.

Optionally prior to transmitting the intent client device may display a menu such as dialog box in order to allow the user of client device to choose where to complete the task. The user may choose to complete the task on client device which may result in the intent being transmitted to an application on client device . Alternatively and as shown in the user may choose to complete the task on client device which may result in the intent being transmitted to an application on client device . The intent may be transmitted and received via various types of communication techniques including but not limited to inter device network communication.

In some situations it may be advantageous to perform some activities of a task on a first client device and other activities of the task on a second client device. For instance a user may be browsing the web on his or her cell phone. During this browsing the user may come across a video that he or she would like to view. However many cell phone display screens are rather small. Thus the user may prefer to view the video on another device such as his or her tablet computer personal computer or television. Being able to transfer the activity of playing the video from the cell phone to one of these other devices may satisfy the user s preference.

For example depicts the distribution of tasks between a cell phone and a tablet computer . Note that for sake of illustration the sizes of these devices are not to scale. In many embodiments cell phone may be smaller than tablet computer .

In this example a user uses a web browser on cell phone to view a web page on web site abc.com. As shown in this web page may contain a link to a video on web site xyz.com. Further the user may wish to view the video on tablet computer perhaps due to tablet computer having a larger display screen. Accordingly the user may indicate this wish to cell phone such as via a menu like dialog box and cell phone may transmit an intent to tablet computer . This intent may contain a URL of the video as data and a command instructing the tablet computer to play the video referred to by the URL.

The distribution of tasks shown in is just one possible embodiment. A number of other embodiments that distribute tasks between client devices are possible. For instance a user might be watching a television program that displays a phone number that can be called to order merchandise. The television may be a networked device with the ability to support circuit switched or packet switched telephony. Thus the user may be able to instruct the television to call the phone number so that the user can order the merchandise. However it may be more convenient for the user to conduct the call via his or her cell phone. Therefore perhaps via a remote control the user may indicate to the television that he or she would like to distribute the activity of placing a call to the cell phone. The television may then transmit an intent to the cell phone containing the phone number as data and a command instructing the cell phone to call the phone number.

In another possible embodiment a user might take a picture using his or her cell phone. The user may want to post a copy of the picture to a social networking site and annotate the picture with some comments. However the small keyboard or keypad of a cell phone may make extensive typing inconvenient. Thus the user may upload the picture to the social networking site then indicate to the cell phone that he or she would like to distribute the activity of annotating the picture to the user s personal computer. The cell phone may transmit an intent to the personal computer containing a reference to the posted picture as data and a command instructing the personal computer to open a dialog box for the user to comment on the picture. Alternatively the user may indicate to the cell phone that he or she would like to distribute the activity of uploading and annotating the picture to the user s personal computer. Then the cell phone may transmit an intent to the personal computer containing the picture and a reference to the social networking site as data and a command instructing the personal computer to upload the picture and or open a dialog box for the user to comment on the picture.

In yet another possible embodiment a task taking place on a client device can dynamically be divided into discrete activities and one or more of these activities can be distributed to other client devices. For instance suppose that a user starts watching a video e.g. a long video such as a movie on a television in his or her family room. At some point during the course of the video s playout the user may wish to finish watching the movie on the television in his or her bedroom. Therefore again perhaps via a remote control the user may indicate to the family room television that he or she would like to complete the task of viewing the video on the bedroom television. This may result in the video playout on the family room television being stopped and the task of viewing the video being logically divided into two activities the first activity of viewing the video to the point where it was stopped and the second activity of viewing the video from the point where it was stopped to the video s end. This second activity would then be transferred to the bedroom television. In particular the family room television may transmit an intent to the bedroom television containing reference to the video at the point at which it was stopped and a command instructing the bedroom television to play out the video from that point.

It should be understood that a task may be able to be divided into any number of discrete activities and these activities may be able to be distributed amongst any number of client devices in order to perform the task. Additionally the activities of a task need not occur in any particular order or within any particular time frame. Thus for instance a task that involves watching a video may be divided into activities that take place on several different client devices over the course of several hours days weeks etc. Further the division of a task into activities may occur dynamically.

In addition to the embodiments described above other embodiments may involve a task being distributed amongst client devices such that an initial activity of the task is carried out on a first client device a subsequent activity of the task is carried out on a second client device and then the first client device either continues to perform the initial activity or carries out yet another activity of the task. This may be advantageous when for example the first client device has a form factor and or capabilities that more easily facilitate certain activities while the second client device has a different form factor and or capabilities that facilitate other activities.

Either during or after the performance of activity client device may transmit a result to client device . Result may take the form of a message that contains data from client device that is related to the performance of activity . This data may be stored on client device or may have been generated by client device before during or after the performance of activity .

Thus a result may include data and a destination. Accordingly result may include data generated by client device and a destination of client device . In some cases a result may also include a command as well. In response to receiving result client device may either continue performing activity or may perform a different activity of the task.

As an example of task distribution in accordance with depicts distributing tasks between a tablet computer and a camera . A user may be using an email client on tablet computer to draft an email. As shown in the user may wish to attach a picture of his or her new puppy to the email. While tablet computer might have a built in camera the user might prefer to use stand alone camera to take the picture. For instance camera might be a better form factor for taking the picture and or may have superior photographic capabilities. Accordingly the user may indicate this preference to tablet computer such as via a menu like dialog box and tablet computer may transmit an intent to camera . This intent may contain a command for camera to take a picture.

Perhaps in response to receiving intent camera may either take a picture or place itself in a picture taking mode so that the user can trigger a picture to be taken. After the picture is taken camera may transmit a copy of the picture in a result back to tablet computer . Tablet computer may in turn automatically incorporate the picture into the draft email as an attachment. Alternatively tablet computer may prompt the user so that the user can manually attach the picture. Then the user may continue drafting the email and or send the email to its recipient s .

The distribution of tasks shown in is just one possible embodiment of how activities from a task can be distributed between client devices such that activities are initially performed on a first client device subsequently on a second client device and then once again on the first client device. It may be possible to distribute different tasks comprising different activities amongst different types of devices.

In order to distribute tasks securely and efficiently amongst client devices it may be beneficial to form associations between these client devices. The associations may be formed prior to activities being distributed amongst the client devices or during distribution of the activities amongst the client devices. Once two or more client devices are associated at least one of the client devices may distribute activities to the other client device s . In some embodiments if two client devices are not associated each client device will not be able to distribute activities to the other client device. This may serve to prevent a client device from distributing part of a task to a receiving device without the receiving device s permission.

At step first client device and second client device may communicate to form an association. This communication may take various forms such as an exchange of messages in which first client device and second client device agree to be associated with one another. On the other hand step may include procedures in which a user enters information manually into both first client device and second client device regarding the association or some combination of manual and non manual procedures.

For example second client device may display an indication of its identity. This indication may be a bar code a QR code text or some other representation and may appear physically on second client device e.g. imprinted on second client device or on a sticker affixed to second client device . Alternatively the indication may appear on a display screen of client device . A user may enter such an indication into first client device thereby initiating the association. Or the user may use first client device to take a picture of this indication to initiate the association.

Regardless at step first client device may transmit an association request message to sharing server . This association request message may contain identifying information of the first client device and or the second client device . Similarly at step second client device may transmit another association request message to sharing server . This association request message may also contain identifying information of the first client device and or the second client device . Both association request messages may seek to form the association between first client device and second client device .

At step perhaps in response to receiving the association request messages sharing server may form an association between first client device and second client device . Sharing server may also store this association for later use. Then at steps and respectively sharing server may transmit association acknowledgement messages to first client device and second client device . Once the association is acknowledged and the client devices are aware of this acknowledgement the association may be used to distribute activities amongst the client devices.

Alternatively or additionally it may be possible to utilize existing associations between two client devices to distribute activities amongst these devices rather than form new associations between the devices. For instance if each of the respective users of two or more client devices is already associated perhaps via a social networking service or an instant messaging service this association may allow the client devices to distribute activities to one another.

Particularly in the client devices include cell phone and television . The distribution of activities is facilitated by sharing server notification server and media server . However it should be noted that the functions of any two or all three of these servers may be combined with one another. Alternatively or additionally the functions of any one server may be distributed across multiple physical devices. Generally speaking sharing server notification server and media server may be part of one or more server clusters such as those depicted in .

At step an association between cell phone and television may be formed. This step may involve messaging not shown in such as some or all of the messaging of or other messaging that forms the association.

At step cell phone may transmit to sharing server a message containing an intent. The intent may in turn include a reference to media e.g. a URL at which a video can be found a command to play the media and a destination of television .

At step sharing server may transmit a notification to notification server . The notification may contain some or all of the information contained in the intent transmitted in step .

At step notification server may transmit a notification to television . This notification may also contain some or all of the information contained in the intent transmitted in step . Particularly as shown in this notification may include at least the reference to the media and the command to play the media. In some embodiments notification server may be dedicated to receiving notifications from sharing server and possibly other servers as well and forwarding at least some of these notifications to client devices. Nonetheless as noted above the functions of notification server could be combined with those of other servers.

At step perhaps in response to receiving the notification television may transmit a media request message to media server . The media request message may include the reference to the media.

At step perhaps in response to receiving the media request message media server may transmit a media response message to television . The media response message may contain at least part of the media requested in step . Upon or after receiving the media television may play out some or all of the media.

Steps and may be carried out in accordance with one or more protocols such as the Session Initiation Protocol SIP Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or File Transfer Protocol FTP .

Overall the message flow of illustrates for example transferring the playout of a video from a cell phone with a small screen to a television with a larger screen. However the same or a similar message flow can be used to distribute different tasks amongst different devices.

Like is a message flow for distributing activities. The message flow of is related to the scenarios described in reference to in which a task is distributed such that an initial activity of the task is carried out on a first client device a subsequent activity of the task is carried out on a second client device and then the first client device either continues to perform the initial activity or carries out yet another activity of the task.

In the client devices include tablet computer and cell phone . Cell phone may include a camera function capable of taking pictures. The distribution of activities is facilitated by sharing server and notification server .

At step an association between tablet computer and cell phone may be formed. This step may involve messaging not shown in such as some or all of the messaging of or other messaging that forms the association.

At step tablet computer may transmit to sharing server a message containing an intent. The intent may in turn include a command to take a picture and a destination of cell phone . Tablet computer may transmit the intent during or after performing an activity of a task.

At step sharing server may transmit a notification to notification server . The notification may contain some or all of the information contained in the intent transmitted in step .

At step notification server may transmit a notification to cell phone . This notification may also contain some of all of the information contained in the intent transmitted in step . Particularly as shown in this notification may include at least the command to take a picture. Possibly in response to receiving this notification cell phone may take a picture or may or place itself in a picture taking mode so that a user can trigger a picture to be taken.

At step cell phone may transmit a result to sharing server . The result may include a copy of the picture taken by cell phone . Alternatively or additionally the result may include a reference e.g. a URL to where the picture can be accessed on cell phone or some other device that has access to the picture.

At step sharing server may transmit another result to tablet computer . Like the result transmitted in step this result may include a copy of the picture taken by cell phone and or a reference e.g. a URL to where the picture can be accessed. Tablet computer may then use the picture in various ways such as integrating the picture into an email message or document that is being drafted on tablet computer . Additionally after receiving the picture tablet computer may either continue with the activity that it was performing prior to or during step or tablet computer may perform a different activity of the same task.

At step as part of performing the task the first application may generate a message that includes a command data and a list of client devices suitable for invoking the command. Alternatively the message may be generated by a separate service operating on the first client device or by the operating system of the first client device. The command and or the data may be capable of invoking the performance of an activity that is related to one or more activities being performed or previously performed by the first application.

In some embodiments the data may be a reference to media accessible via a media server and the command may instruct the recipient to retrieve and play the referenced media. In other embodiments the command may be related to providing media to the first client device and the data may specify a type of media to provide. Alternatively the data may be a callee phone number and the command may be related to placing a telephone call to the callee phone number. Still other embodiments are possible.

At step it may be determined whether the first client device is in the list. At step if the first client device is in the list the first client device may i transmit the message to a local application on the first client device and ii the local application may further perform the task by invoking the command on the data.

At step if the first client device is not in the list the first client device may i select a second client device from the list and ii transmit via a server device the message to the second client device. The message as transmitted via the server device may be configured to cause invocation of the command on the data by a remote application to further perform the task. Alternatively even if the first client device is in the list and thus suitable for invoking the command the second client device may still be selected to invoke the command.

Transmitting the message to the local application may involve transmitting the message in a first message format and transmitting the message to the remote application may involve transmitting the message in a second message format. The first message format and the second message format may be the same or different from one another.

Thus for instance the first message format may be in accordance with one or more of various types of inter process communication technologies e.g. sockets remote procedure calls message queues pipes etc. . Alternatively the message may be delivered by other inter process communication technologies such as shared memory or files. The second message format may be in accordance with one or more of the various types of inter device communication technologies e.g. sockets remote procedure calls etc. .

On the other hand transmitting the message to the local application may involve using the same message format as transmitting the message to the remote application. For example this message format may make use of IP communication mechanisms e.g. sockets or remote procedure calls and may be formatted accordingly.

Selecting the second client device from the list may involve displaying on a user interface of the first client device a prompt requesting selection of a client device from the list. The user may select the second client device from the list. Alternatively selecting the second client device from the list may involve determining that the second client device is a default client device for the command. For example the first client device may be configured to always select the second client device for a given command. Or the first client device may determine that the second client device has been previously selected from the list to invoke the command and may select the second client device on this basis.

In some cases the first client device may receive a result of the invocation of the command. Possibly in response to receiving the result of the invocation of the command the first client device may provide the result to the first application and or incorporate at least part of the result into the first application.

Prior to at least some of the steps in e.g. before the first application operating on a first client device or the first client device itself generates a message an association may be formed between the first client device and the second client device. The association may authorize the first client device to invoke commands on the second client device.

The applications operating on client device may communicate with one another via a logical software bus which may utilize for example one or more of the various inter process communication techniques described above. Similarly the applications operating on client device may communicate with one another via a logical software bus which may also utilize one or more inter process communication techniques.

Client device may support a sharing proxy and client device may support a sharing proxy . These sharing proxies may be applications or may be built into each respective client device s operating system. Sharing proxy may communicate with sharing server on behalf of applications and . Likewise sharing proxy may communicate with sharing server on behalf of applications and .

The embodiments illustrated by may be facilitated by this software architecture. Particularly an application operating on client device say application may be performing the activities of a task. One or more activities of this task may be distributed to an application operating on client device say application . Alternatively the activity or activities distributed to client device may ultimately be carried out by an application that is not operating on client device at the time of the distribution. 

Therefore application may use inter process communication to transmit to sharing proxy an intent to conduct an activity on client device . Possibly in response to receiving the intent from application sharing proxy may transmit via inter device communication the intent to sharing server . Sharing server may then transmit the intent to sharing proxy . Possibly in response to receiving the intent from sharing server sharing proxy may use inter process communication to transmit the intent to application .

It should be understood that this example is just one way in which the client software architecture of can be used. Other ways of using this architecture including embodiments that involve communication from client device to client device are also possible.

The above detailed description describes various features and functions of the disclosed systems devices and methods with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description figures and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments can be utilized and other changes can be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

With respect to any or all of the message flow diagrams scenarios and flow charts in the figures and as discussed herein each step block and or communication may represent a processing of information and or a transmission of information in accordance with example embodiments. Alternative embodiments are included within the scope of these example embodiments. In these alternative embodiments for example functions described as steps blocks transmissions communications requests responses and or messages may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including in substantially concurrent or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved. Further more or fewer steps blocks and or functions may be used with any of the message flow diagrams scenarios and flow charts discussed herein and these message flow diagrams scenarios and flow charts may be combined with one another in part or in whole.

A step or block that represents a processing of information may correspond to circuitry that can be configured to perform the specific logical functions of a herein described method or technique. Alternatively or additionally a step or block that represents a processing of information may correspond to a module a segment or a portion of program code including related data . The program code may include one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or actions in the method or technique. The program code and or related data may be stored on any type of computer readable medium such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive or other storage media.

The computer readable medium may also include non transitory computer readable media such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and or random access memory RAM . The computer readable media may also include non transitory computer readable media that stores program code and or data for longer periods of time such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks and or compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. A computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

Moreover a step or block that represents one or more information transmissions may correspond to information transmissions between software and or hardware modules in the same physical device. However other information transmissions may be between software modules and or hardware modules in different physical devices.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

