---

title: Image forming apparatus, and method for transferring color toner images
abstract: In an image forming apparatus, in which color toner images are primarily transferred to an intermediate transfer medium, and then secondarily transferred to a recording sheet at a secondary transfer nip, a secondary transfer current output device applies a transfer current to the transfer nip while determining the transfer current based on area ratios of the toner images using an algorithm. When determining the transfer current, the secondary transfer current output device estimates the target value of a transfer current needed for transferring one of the toner images to be not lower than that needed for transferring another toner image, which is primarily transferred next to the one of the toner images, and the target value of a transfer current needed for transferring a first toner image, which is primarily transferred firstly, to be lower than that needed for transferring a last toner image, which is primarily transferred lastly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08874013&OS=08874013&RS=08874013
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 08874013
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121005
---
This patent application is based on and claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 to Japanese Patent Application No. 2011 248732 filed on Nov. 14 2011 in the Japan Patent Office the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to an image forming apparatus. Particularly the present invention relates to an image forming apparatus which has an intermediate transfer belt and a nip forming member contacted with the intermediate transfer belt to form a transfer nip therebetween and in which a transfer current is flown through the transfer nip while changing the transfer current depending on the image area ratio. In addition the present invention also relates to a method for transferring color toner images.

Image forming apparatuses which form images using an intermediate transfer method including forming a toner image on an image bearing member such as photoreceptors primarily transferring the toner image onto an intermediate transfer medium and secondarily transferring the toner image onto a recording sheet are well known. By using an elastic material having good flexibility for the intermediate transfer medium the adhesion between the recording sheet and the toner image can be enhanced.

Image forming apparatuses using such an intermediate transfer method typically include four photoreceptors which serve as image bearing members and on which yellow Y magenta M cyan C and black K toner images are respectively formed and an endless intermediate transfer belt which makes endless movement while being contacted with the four photoreceptors to form primary transfer nips at which the Y M C and K toner images are sequentially transferred from the photoreceptors to the intermediate transfer belt so that the color toner images are overlaid resulting in formation of a combined color toner image on the intermediate transfer belt. The combined color toner image on the intermediate transfer belt is then secondarily transferred onto a recording sheet which is timely fed to a secondary transfer nip formed by the intermediate transfer belt and a transfer roller.

In such image forming apparatuses since the amount weight of toners constituting the combined color toner image is considerably large the combined color toner image cannot be satisfactorily transferred onto a recording sheet resulting in formation of an image having a low image density unless a large secondary transfer current is applied to the secondary transfer nip. In this regard if a larger amount of secondary transfer current than that needed for transferring a toner image is applied discharge is caused between the recording sheet and the intermediate transfer belt at the secondary transfer nip thereby charging the toner of the toner image so as to have a charge with the opposite polarity resulting in occurrence of defective transferring i.e. formation of a low density image .

In attempting to solve the problem a technique such that a proper amount of transfer current is determined based on the ratio of the area of a first toner image to the area of the overlapped portion of the first toner image and a second toner image and the thus determined proper transfer current is applied to a transfer blade to satisfactorily transfer the combined toner image is proposed.

However even when such a technique is used a defective transfer problem such that a specific color portion of a combined toner image is not satisfactorily transferred is caused depending on the configuration of the combined toner image such as area ratios of the color toner images constituting the combined toner image .

For these reasons the present inventor recognized that there is a need for an image forming apparatus which can produce high quality multicolor images without causing the defective transfer problem even when the area ratios of multiple color toner images change.

This patent specification describes a novel image forming apparatus one embodiment of which includes one or more image bearing members to bear different color toner images an endless intermediate transfer medium a primary transfer device to transfer the primary color toner images on the one or more image bearing members to the intermediate transfer medium to form a combined color toner image on the intermediate transfer medium a nip forming member contacted with the intermediate transfer medium to form a secondary transfer nip at which the combined color toner image is transferred to a recording sheet and a secondary transfer current output device to apply a secondary transfer current to the secondary transfer nip to transfer the combined color toner image while determining the secondary transfer current based on image area ratios of the primary color toner images of the combined color toner image using a predetermined algorithm.

When determining the secondary transfer current the secondary transfer current output device estimates the target value of a transfer current per unit area for each of the primary color toner images in such a manner that the target value of a transfer current per unit area needed for secondarily transferring one of the primary color toner images is not lower than that needed for secondarily transferring another of the primary color toner images which is primarily transferred to the intermediate transfer medium next to the one of the primary color toner images and the target value of a transfer current per unit area needed for secondarily transferring a first of the primary color toner images which is primarily transferred firstly is lower than that needed for secondarily transferring a last of the primary color toner images which is primarily transferred lastly among the primary color toner images and then determines the secondary transfer current based on the estimated target values of the transfer currents for all the primary color toner images.

This patent specification describes a novel method for transferring color toner images one embodiment of which includes primarily transferring primary color toner images on one or more image bearing members to an intermediate transfer medium to form a combined color toner image thereon secondarily transferring the combined color toner image to a recording sheet at a secondary transfer nip while applying a secondary transfer current to the secondary transfer nip and determining the secondary transfer current based on image area ratios of the primary color toner images of the combined color toner image using a predetermined algorithm.

The secondary transfer current determining includes estimating the target value of a transfer current per unit area for each of the primary color toner images in such a manner that the target value of a transfer current per unit area needed for secondarily transferring one of the primary color toner images is not lower than that needed for secondarily transferring another of the primary color toner images which is primarily transferred to the intermediate transfer medium next to the one of the primary color toner images and the target value of a transfer current per unit area needed for secondarily transferring a first of the primary color toner images which is primarily transferred firstly is lower than that needed for secondarily transferring a last of the primary color toner images which is primarily transferred lastly among the primary color toner images and then determining the secondary transfer current based on the estimated target values of the transfer currents for all the primary color toner images.

It will be understood that if an element or layer is referred to as being on against connected to or coupled to another element or layer then it can be directly on against connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast if an element is referred to as being directly on directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer then there are no intervening elements or layers present. Like numbers referred to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Spatially relative terms such as beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature s relationship to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that the spatially relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements describes as below or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. Thus term such as below can encompass both an orientation of above and below. The device may be otherwise oriented rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors herein interpreted accordingly.

Although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections it should be understood that these elements components regions layer and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used only to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In describing example embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner and achieve a similar result.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views example embodiments of the present patent application are described.

The present inventor has investigated the reason why the defective transfer problem such that a specific color portion of a combined toner image is not satisfactorily transferred is caused depending on the configuration of the combined toner image such as area ratios of multiple color toner images is caused. As a result the present inventor discovers that the proper secondary transfer current for satisfactorily transferring a combined color toner image from an intermediate transfer belt onto a recording sheet changes depending on the quantity of charge of each of color toner images constituting the combined color toner image per a unit area as well as the area ratios of the color toner images. Specifically as the quantity of charge of each of color toner images increases the proper secondary transfer current for satisfactorily transferring the combined color toner image increases. In this regard in general image forming apparatuses electrostatic latent images formed on respective image bearing members are developed while controlling the charge quantities of toners per unit weight i.e. Q M by controlling the developing conditions and the toner concentrations of the developers contained in the developing devices. Therefore the quantity of charge of each of color toner images per unit area falls in a predetermined range right after the color toner images are formed. Therefore it has been considered that the proper secondary transfer current can be correctly determined based on the area ratios of multiple color toner images without taking the charge quantities of the toners into consideration. However as a result of the present inventor s investigation it is discovered that the charge quantities of Y M C and K toners per unit area are largely different right before the color toner images enter a secondary transfer nip.

The reason why the charge quantities of Y M C and K toners per unit area are different is considered as follows. As mentioned above the charge quantity per unit area of each of color toner images falls in a predetermined range right after the color toner images are formed. However since color toner images except for a last transferred color toner image pass one or more primary transfer nips at which other toner images are transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt the color toner images receive additional primary transfer currents at the primary transfer nips thereby increasing the charge quantities of the toners of the color toner images. Since the number of times that the Y M C and K toners receive additional primary transfer currents is different the charge quantities per unit area of the Y M C and K toners are largely different right before the color toner images i.e. the combined color toner image enter the secondary transfer nip. Therefore even when the area of the combined color toner image is constant the charge quantity of the combined color toner image changes when the area ratios of the color toner images are different. Therefore when the secondary transfer current is determined based on the area of the combined color toner image without taking the area ratios of the color toner images into consideration a problem in that the applied secondary transfer current is largely different from the proper secondary transfer current is caused in some cases depending on the area ratios of the color toner images thereby causing the defective transfer problem.

Next the image forming apparatus of the present invention will be described by reference to a tandem color printer.

Initially the structure of the color printer will be described. is a schematic view illustrating the color printer. The color printer includes an optical writing unit not shown in a tandem image forming section a transfer unit a fixing device and a reforwarding device . The tandem image forming section includes four image forming units Y M C and K which respectively form yellow Y magenta M cyan C and black K toner images.

The transfer unit includes an endless intermediate transfer belt a driving roller a driven roller a secondary transfer facing roller four primary transfer rollers Y M C and K and a secondary transfer roller . The endless intermediate transfer belt which serves as an intermediate image bearing member is tightly stretched across the driving roller the driven roller and the secondary transfer facing roller so as to have an inverted triangle form when observed from the side. The intermediate transfer belt is rotated clockwise by the driving roller . Photoreceptors Y M C and K and the intermediate transfer belt are rotated such that the surfaces thereof move at a process speed of 120 mm s.

The driving roller the driven roller the secondary transfer facing roller and the four primary transfer rollers are provided inside the loop of the intermediate transfer belt . The roles of the primary transfer rollers and the secondary transfer roller will be described later.

The tandem image forming section has a structure such that the four image forming units Y M C and K are laterally aligned along the stretched upper surface of the intermediate transfer belt so as to be located above the transfer unit . Each of the image transfer units includes the drum shaped photoreceptor which is rotated counterclockwise a developing device Y M C or K and a charger Y M C or K . In addition each image forming unit includes a drum cleaner not shown to clean the surface of the photoreceptor .

Each of the photoreceptors Y M C and K is contacted with the stretched upper surface of the intermediate transfer belt to form primary transfer nips while rotated counterclockwise by a driver not shown . The developing devices Y M C and K respectively develop electrostatic latent images formed on the photoreceptors Y M C and K using Y M C and K toners. The chargers Y M C and K respectively charge the surfaces of the photoreceptors Y M C and K so that the surfaces of the photoreceptors have charges with the same polarity as that of charges of the toners. In this example the photoreceptors are charged such that the surfaces thereof have a potential of about 500V.

The primary transfer rollers Y M C and K which are provided inside the loop of the intermediate transfer belt press the intermediate transfer belt toward the photoreceptors Y M C and K. Primary transfer bias power sources Y M C and K apply a primary transfer bias to the corresponding primary transfer rollers Y M C and K. The primary transfer rollers and the primary transfer bias power sources serve as a primary transfer device.

The primary transfer rollers has a metal core and an elastic layer formed on the surface of the metal core. The elastic layer is made of an electroconductive sponge prepared by foaming a resin in which an ionic electroconductive agent is dispersed and has a volume resistivity of about 4 10 cm under laboratory atmospheric conditions 25 C. and 40 RH hereinafter referred to as normal conditions and a volume resistivity of about 1 10 cm under high temperature and high humidity atmospheric conditions 27 C. and 80 RH hereinafter referred to as HH conditions .

In this regard a resistivity meter HIRESTA UP Model MCP HT450 from Mitsubishi Chemical Analytech Co. Ltd. is used and the applied voltage is 100V.

The primary rollers are set so as to be deviated from the rotation centers of the photoreceptors by about 3 mm in the moving direction of the intermediate transfer belt .

The intermediate transfer belt is made of a polyamide resin in which carbon black is dispersed and has a thickness of 80 m and an elasticity of greater than 3.5 GPa. In addition the intermediate transfer belt has a volume resistivity of about 3 10 cm under the normal conditions and a volume resistivity of about 2 10 cm under the HH conditions.

In this regard the resistivity meter HIRESTA UP Model MCP HT450 is used and the applied voltage is 100V.

An optical writing unit is provided above the tandem image forming section although the optical writing unit is not illustrated in . The optical writing unit subjects the surfaces of the photoreceptors which have been evenly charged by the chargers to optical scanning using light beams L to form electrostatic latent images on the surfaces of the photoreceptors . In this regard the potential of an irradiated portion of the surfaces of the photoreceptors which is irradiated with the light beams L is decreased from about 500V to about 300V. Namely the background portion of an electrostatic latent image i.e. non irradiated portion has a potential of about 500V and the image portion i.e. irradiated portion has a potential of about 300V.

The electrostatic latent images thus formed on the photoreceptors Y M C and K are developed by the developing units Y M C and K respectively resulting in formation of Y M C and K toner images on the photoreceptors Y M C and K. In this regard the development is performed in such a manner that when a solid toner image is formed on the photoreceptor by developing an electrostatic latent image corresponding to the solid image the weight of the solid toner image is about 0.45 mg cm.

The Y M C and K toner images formed on the photoreceptors Y M C and K are contacted with the outer surface of the intermediate transfer belt at the Y M C and K primary transfer nips so as to be transferred to the outer surface resulting in formation of a combined toner image thereon in which the Y M C and K toner images are overlaid.

In this printer each of the chargers includes a charging member which is contacted with the surface of the corresponding photoreceptor or is set close to the surface and a power source for charging Y M C or K to apply a charge bias to the charging member to cause discharge between the charging member and the photoreceptor thereby evenly charging the surface of the photoreceptor . Other chargers such as scorotron can also be used for the chargers .

The transfer unit includes the secondary transfer roller which is located below the intermediate transfer belt and which serves as a nip forming member. The secondary transfer roller is grounded and contacted with the outer surface of the intermediate transfer belt at such a location as to be opposed to the secondary transfer facing roller with the intermediate transfer belt therebetween. Since a secondary transfer bias power source applies a secondary transfer bias having the same polarity as that of charges of the toners to the secondary transfer facing roller a secondary transfer electric field such that the toner images on the intermediate transfer belt are electrostatically moved toward the secondary transfer roller is formed at the secondary transfer nip formed by the secondary transfer facing roller and the secondary transfer roller .

The secondary transfer facing roller has a diameter of 16 mm and a volume resistivity of about 1 10 cm. In contrast the secondary transfer roller includes a metal core having a diameter of 12 mm and an elastic layer formed on the surface of the metal core and has a diameter of 24 mm. The elastic layer is made of an electroconductive sponge prepared by foaming a resin in which an ionic electroconductive agent is dispersed and has a volume resistivity of about 5 10 cm under the normal conditions and a volume resistivity of about 2 10 cm under the HH conditions.

In this regard a resistivity meter HIRESTA UP Model MCP HT450 from Mitsubishi Chemical Analytech Co. Ltd. is used and the applied voltage is 100V.

The recording sheet is timely fed to the secondary transfer nip so that the combined color toner image on the intermediate transfer belt is transferred to the proper portion of the recording sheet by means of the nip pressure and the secondary transfer electric field.

The recording sheet to which the combined color toner image is transferred at the secondary transfer nip is fed to the fixing device by a sheet feeding belt which is rotated counterclockwise while attracted by the stretched upper surface of the sheet feeding belt. In the fixing device the recording sheet is nipped at a fixing nip formed by a heat roller including a heat source such as halogen heaters therein and a pressure roller pressed to the heat roller and thereby the combined color toner image is fixed to the recording sheet upon application of heat and pressure thereto. The recording sheet bearing the fixed toner image thereon is discharged from the printer by a pair of discharging rollers not shown in when no image is to be formed on the backside of the recording sheet i.e. when a single print mode is elected .

When another image is formed on the backside of the recording sheet i.e. when a double sided print mode is elected the recording sheet bearing a fixed toner image on one surface thereof is fed to the reforwarding device by switching a switching pick not shown .

The reforwarding device allows the recording sheet bearing a fixed toner image on one surface thereof to switch back in a switchback passage so that the recording sheet is inverted. The thus inverted recording sheet is fed to a passage to feed the recording sheet to a point of a sheet feeding passage which is used for feeding the recording sheet in a sheet cassette to the secondary transfer nip. In this regard the point of the sheet feeding passage is located on an upstream side from a pair of resistivity measuring rollers and a pair of registration rollers relative to the sheet feeding direction namely each of the recording sheet fed from the sheet cassette and the recording sheet fed by the reforwarding device passes through the pair of resistivity measuring rollers and the pair of registration rollers . The pair of resistivity measuring rollers has a voltage applying roller and a backup roller . Numerals and denote a voltage applier and an ammeter. In addition numeral denotes a temperature and humidity sensor to detect the temperature and humidity of atmosphere of the printer.

After a second toner image is transferred onto the backside of the recording sheet at the secondary transfer nip the recording sheet is fed to the fixing device so that the second toner image is fixed thereto thereby forming a duplex copy. The duplex copy is discharged from the printer by the pair of discharging rollers not shown .

The pair of registration rollers has such a function that when the recording sheet strikes the rollers which are not rotated skew of the recording sheet is corrected. Thereafter the rollers are rotated to pinch the tip of the recording sheet and then stopped rapidly. The pair of registration rollers is timely rotated to feed the recording sheet to the secondary transfer nip so that the toner image on the intermediate transfer belt is transferred onto a proper position of the recording sheet at the secondary transfer nip.

The controller controls driving of the devices of the printer according to control programs stored in the RAM and ROM . In addition according to image data optical writing signals sent from external devices such as personal computers the controller determines the Y M C and K primary transfer currents and controls the primary transfer bias power sources Y M C and K so that the power sources output the determined primary transfer currents. Therefore the controller and the primary transfer bias power sources serve as a primary transfer current output device. In this regard the target values of the primary transfer currents to be output by the primary transfer bias power sources are input as PWM signals to the primary transfer bias power sources by the controller .

The controller performs a misregistration correction processing right after the main power switch is turned on or every time after a predetermined number of prints are produced. In the misregistration correction processing a misregistration detection image called as a chevron patch PV which is constituted of multiple toner images and which is illustrated in is formed on the intermediate transfer belt . An optical sensor unit illustrated in emits a light beam from a light source thereof to irradiate the surface of the intermediate transfer belt after passing the light beam through a collecting lens thereof and receives the reflected light using a photoreceiver thereof. The optical sensor unit outputs a voltage corresponding to the amount of light received. In this regard when the chevron patch PV formed on the intermediate transfer belt passes under the optical sensor unit the amount of light received by the photoreceiver of the optical sensor unit largely changes. Therefore the controller can detect each of the toner images of the chevron patch PV formed on the intermediate transfer belt . Thus the combination of the optical sensor unit and the controller serves as an image detecting device. In this regard LEDs and the like capable of emitting light in an amount such that the toner images can be detected by the reflected light can be used as the light source of the optical sensor unit . In addition CCDs and the like in which multiple light receiving elements are linearly arranged can be used as the photoreceiver of the optical sensor unit .

By detecting each of the toner images of the chevron patch PV formed on the intermediate transfer belt the controller can detect the position of each of the toner images in the sub scanning direction i.e. the belt moving direction . As illustrated in the chevron patch PV includes Y M C and K toner line images which are slanting at an angle of 45 relative to the main scanning direction perpendicular to the sub scanning direction and which are formed at regular intervals in the belt moving direction. The controller determines the time difference between the detection time of the K toner image and the detection time of each of the Y C and M toner images. In the chevron patch PV illustrated in first Y M C and K toner images are arranged from the left side and second K C M and Y toner images which are slanting at an angle of 90 relative to the first Y M C and K toner images are arranged from the left side. By determining time differences tky tkc and tkm between the detection time of the K toner image and the detection time of each of the Y C and M toner images the amount of misregistration of each of the Y C and M toner images in the sub scanning direction can be determined. The controller adjusts the timings of optical writing operations performed by the optical writing unit not shown based on the amounts of misregistration of the Y C and M toner images. Thus the amount of misregistration of toner images caused by change in velocity of the photoreceptors Y M C and K and the intermediate transfer belt can be reduced.

Each of the primary transfer bias power source which applies a primary transfer bias to the corresponding primary transfer roller performs constant current control such that a transfer current equal to the target current is output or constant voltage control such that a transfer voltage equal to the target voltage is output. In this regard the target value in the constant current control or the constant voltage control is determined based on the image area ratio in the main scanning direction of a toner image on the photoreceptor which image is passing the exit of the primary transfer nip and the vicinity of the exit. Specifically as illustrated in the surface of the photoreceptor is theoretically separated in the sub scanning direction i.e. the photoreceptor moving direction into multiple areas each of which has a length corresponding to ten pixels starting from the top of a page image . Namely each of the multiple areas hereinafter referred to as a ten line area includes 10 pixel lines in each of which pixels align in the main scanning direction. In this regard the image area ratio is defined as a ratio of the number of pixels of the image in a pixel line to the total number of pixels in the pixel line. The average image area ratio of the image in the ten line area is determined by averaging the image area ratios of the ten pixel lines included in the ten line area. The target value of the primary transfer current or voltage is determined based on the average image area ratio of one of the multiple ten line areas which is passing the exit of the primary transfer nip and the primary transfer bias power source adjusts the output so as to be equal to the target value when the ten line area passes the primary transfer nip. When the last pixel line of a ten line area has passed the exit of the primary transfer nip the target value of the output from the primary transfer bias power source is changed so as to be based on the average image area ratio of the next ten line area.

The reason why the target value of the primary transfer current or voltage is determined based on the average image area ratio of an image in a ten line area which is passing the vicinity of the exit of the primary transfer nip is as follows. Specifically most of the current flowing between the photoreceptor and the intermediate transfer belt is the current caused by aerial discharge between the photoreceptor and the intermediate transfer belt at the exit of the primary transfer nip. In a case where the current supplied from the primary transfer bias power source is relatively low and the image area ratio is relatively low most of the current supplied from the primary transfer bias power source is used for aerial discharge between the photoreceptor and the intermediate transfer belt at the exit of the primary transfer nip and current is hardly flown through the toner image on the photoreceptor thereby causing the defective transfer problem in that the toner image is not satisfactorily transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt. By flowing a transfer current corresponding to the average image area ratio of the toner image passing the vicinity of the exit of the primary transfer nip it becomes possible to flow a proper current through the toner image while reducing the potential difference between the photoreceptor and the intermediate transfer belt so as to be lower than the discharge starting voltage.

The secondary transfer bias power source which applies a secondary transfer bias to the secondary transfer facing roller performs constant current control such that a secondary transfer current equal to the target current is applied. The target current is determined based on the image area ratio in the main scanning direction of a toner image on the intermediate transfer belt which image is passing the vicinity of the exit of the secondary transfer nip. Specifically similarly to the surface of the photoreceptor the surface of the intermediate transfer belt is theoretically separated in the sub scanning direction into multiple areas each of which has a length corresponding to ten pixels starting from the top of a page image . Each of the multiple areas hereinafter referred to as a ten line area includes 10 pixel lines in each of which pixels align in the main scanning direction. In this regard the image area ratio is defined as a ratio of the number of pixels of the image in a pixel line to the total number of pixels in the pixel line. The average image area ratio of the image in the ten line area is determined by averaging the image area ratios of the pixel lines included in the ten line area. The target value of the second transfer current is determined based on the average image area ratio of one of the multiple ten line areas which is passing the exit of the secondary transfer nip and the secondary transfer bias power source adjusts the output current so as to be equal to the target current when the ten line area passes the secondary transfer nip. When the last pixel line of a ten line area has passed the exit of the secondary transfer nip the target value of the current output from the secondary transfer bias power source is changed so as to be based on the average image area ratio of the next ten line area.

In a case where the Y M C and K toners in the developing units Y M C and K have the same charge quantity per unit weight and the Y M C and K toner images formed on the photoreceptors Y M C and K are independently transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt the charge quantities of the toner images per unit area are the same as each other just after the toner images are primarily transferred. However when the Y M C and K toner images are moved to a point just before the secondary transfer nip the charge quantities of the toner images per unit area are different from each other. This is because the number of times that the Y M C and K toner images pass primary transfer nips is different. Specifically when a toner image passes a primary transfer nip the toner image is influenced by the primary transfer current applied to the primary transfer nip and the charge quantity of the toner is increased so as to be slightly higher than that of the toner image hereinafter referred to as charge up just after the toner image is formed on the photoreceptor by the developing device. Among Y M C and K toner images the K toner image which is last transferred passes only one primary transfer nip and therefore the K toner image causes the charge up once. In contrast since the C toner image passes the C and K primary transfer nips the C toner image causes the charge up twice. Since the M toner image passes the M C and K primary transfer nips the M toner image causes the charge up three times. Since the Y toner image passes the Y M C and K primary transfer nips the Y toner image causes the charge up four times. Thus the number of times of the charge up is different the charge quantities of the Y M C and K toner images just before the toner images enter the secondary transfer nip are different.

In general the charge quantities QY QM QC and QK of the Y M C and K toner images per unit area just before the toner images enter the secondary transfer nip have the following relation In a case where the primary transfer rollers are set such that the centers of the rollers are located on slightly downstream sides from the centers of the corresponding photoreceptors the relation is strengthened because the current caused by discharge at the exit of a primary transfer nip increases.

In this printer in order to prevent occurrence of a reverse translation problem in that a toner image which is previously transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt is reversely transferred onto a photoreceptor at a primary transfer nip the primary transfer bias power sources Y M C and K determine the target values of the primary transfer currents for the Y M C and K toner images using such an algorithm as illustrated in . Specifically as the portion of the primary transfer nip approaches the extreme downstream side relative to the belt moving direction the target value of the primary transfer current for the primary transfer nip is set so as to be lower. Therefore the above mentioned relation is further strengthened.

The present inventor provided a test printer having a structure similar to that of this printer. Yellow magenta cyan and black toner images which are independent from each other were output on a A 3 size paper sheet MY PAPER from Ricoh Business Expert Ltd. using the test printer. In this regard the secondary transfer bias power source was controlled such that the target value of the secondary transfer current is calculated using the equations described in each of experiments 1 4 illustrated in Table 1. In each of the experiments 1 4 proper current values of the secondary transfer currents for Y M C and K toner images were calculated by multiplying the average image area ratios thereof y m c and k by the same coefficient and the target value of the secondary transfer current was determined as the total of the proper current values.

For example when a Y toner image having an average image area ratio y of 5 a M toner image having an average image area ratio m of 10 a C toner image having an average image area ratio c of 15 and a K toner image having an average image area ratio k of 20 are formed in the experiment 1 the target value of the secondary transfer current is 20.25 A 15 10.5 0.05 0.1 0.15 0.2 . In this regard only the second terms 10.5 y 10.5 m 10.5 c and 10.5 k are totaled and the first term 15 is not totaled.

As described in Table 1 the image densities of the cyan and black toner images were low in the experiments 1 and 2 and the image densities of the yellow magenta and cyan toner images were low in the experiments 3 and 4. The reason therefor is considered to be that the charge quantities of the Y M C and K toner images are different from each other as illustrated in below the charge quantity was measured using Q m TEST SYSTEM model 201HS from Trek Inc. and therefore the secondary transfer current is deviated from the proper value.

Next the secondary transfer bias power source was controlled such that the target values of the secondary transfer currents for the Y M C and K toner images are calculated using an algorithm using coefficients corresponding to the charge quantities of the Y M C and K toner images just before the secondary transfer nip and a print test was performed. The secondary transfer currents for the Y M C and K toner images were calculated using the equations illustrated in Table 3 below.

As a result the Y M C and K toner images transferred onto a A 3 size paper sheet MY PAPER from Ricoh Business Expert Ltd. had good image densities.

In this printer the secondary transfer bias power source estimates the transfer currents 15 coefficient necessary for transferring toner images formed on any two adjacent photoreceptors such as Y and M toner images M and C toner images and C and K toner images as follows. Specifically a first transfer current necessary for transferring a first toner image which is primarily transferred in first is estimated to be not less than a second transfer current for transferring a second toner image which is primarily transferred next. By using this method the target value of the secondary transfer current is determined as the total of the transfer currents for all the toner images. By using this method the target value can be determined so as to be nearer to a proper value than in a case of using conventional methods in which the secondary transfer current is determined without considering the order of primary transferring of the toner images. By using this method occurrence of the defective transfer problem caused by change of image area ratio can be prevented.

Depending on the conditions of determining the target values of the primary transfer currents of Y M C and K toner images there are cases such that the charge quantities of two toner images which are sequentially primarily transferred are hardly different and the absolute charge quantity of a K toner image is much smaller than those of Y M and C toner images. In such cases for example the target values of the secondary transfer currents for the Y M C and K toner images are determined as illustrated in Tables 4 6.

Since it is impossible that the charge quantity per unit area of a K toner image just before the secondary transfer nip is larger than that of a Y toner image. Therefore if the Y and K toner images have the same average image area ratio it is preferable to determine the proper value absolute value of the secondary transfer current for the Y toner image so as to be larger than that for the K toner image.

Next other examples of the image forming apparatus printer which have other features in addition to the feature of the above mentioned printer will be described.

As mentioned above by determining the proper values of the secondary transfer currents for transferring four color toner images based on the image area ratios thereof the proper values can be determined considerably precisely. In this regard it is more preferable to determine the proper values in consideration of the overlapped image area. This is because the condition of discharge at an overlapped image area at the primary transfer nip is different from that at a non overlapped image area.

As a result of the present inventor s experiments the charge quantities of color toner images just before the secondary transfer nip were as follows.

Therefore in the printer of Example 1 the secondary transfer bias power source performs the below mentioned processing only for primary color toner images i.e. non overlapped Y M C and K toner images . Specifically a first transfer current necessary for transferring a first toner image such as Y M and C toner images which is primarily transferred in first is estimated to be not less than a second transfer current for transferring a second toner image such as M C and K toner images which is primarily transferred next. More specifically the secondary transfer current necessary for secondarily transferring a Y toner image y is estimated to be not less than the secondary transfer current necessary for secondarily transferring a M toner image m . In addition the secondary transfer current necessary for secondarily transferring a M toner image m is estimated to be not less than the secondary transfer current necessary for secondarily transferring a C toner image c . Further the secondary transfer current necessary for secondarily transferring a C toner image c is estimated to be not less than the secondary transfer current necessary for secondarily transferring a K toner image k .

In the printer of Example 1 the secondary transfer bias power source performs an estimation processing such that the secondary transfer current necessary for transferring secondary tertiary and quaternary color toner images such as R G B C and C toner images in is determined based on the combinations of the primary color toner images constituting the secondary tertiary and quaternary color toner images. By using this method the proper values of the secondary transfer currents for transferring secondary tertiary and quaternary color toner images can be determined more precisely thereby making it possible to prevent occurrence of the defective transfer problem more securely.

A print test was performed using the test printer in which the secondary transfer bias power source determines the target value of the secondary transfer current using the equations illustrated in Table 7. As a result the image densities of primary secondary tertiary and quaternary color images were more uniform than in a case where the secondary transfer bias power source determines the target value of the secondary transfer current using the equations illustrated in Table 3.

Each of the primary transfer bias power sources Y M C and K performs constant current control such that as the average image area ratio in a ten line area of the photoreceptor increases the target value absolute value of the primary transfer current is decreased. By performing this control the charge quantities of the Y M C and K toner images per unit area after the primary transfer operation can be equalized.

The main difference between the printer of Example 2 and the printer of Example 1 mentioned above is as follows.

Specifically each of the primary transfer bias power sources Y M C and K performs constant voltage control for the primary transfer bias such that the average image area ratio of a toner image in a ten line area of the photoreceptor increases the target value absolute value of the primary transfer voltage for the toner image is decreased. By performing this control the charge quantities of the Y M C and K toner images per unit area after the primary transfer operation can be equalized.

In addition the primary transfer bias power source estimates the target value absolute value of a first transfer voltage necessary for transferring a first toner image which is to be primarily transferred in first to be not less than a second transfer voltage for transferring a second toner image which is to be primarily transferred next. By using this method occurrence of the reverse translation problem in that a toner image which is previously transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt is reversely transferred onto a photoreceptor at a primary transfer nip on a downstream side in the belt moving direction can be prevented.

Next another example of the printer which has a distinct structure in addition to the structures of the printers of Examples 1 and 2 will be described.

When images having a low average image area ratio are continuously produced the Y M C and K developers in the developing devices Y M C and K are forcibly agitated even though the amounts of the consumed Y M C and K toners are small. In this case the charge quantities per unit weight of the Y M C and K toners excessively increase and it becomes difficult to precisely determine the proper value of the secondary transfer current. Therefore in this printer when images having average area ratios less than a predetermined threshold value are continuously produced Y M C and K solid toner images are formed on non image areas of the Y M C and K photoreceptors i.e. areas between two adjacent image areas to forcibly consume the Y M C and K toners. By using this method the charge quantities of the Y M C and K toners can be maintained so as to fall in the respective predetermined charge quantity ranges and thereby the proper value of the secondary transfer current can be precisely determined.

Hereinbefore the printer in which the average image area ratio in a ten line area is determined and the target value of the secondary transfer current is changed depending on the average image area ratio has been described. However the method of determining the average image area ratio and the timing of change of the target value are not limited to the method and the timing mentioned above. For example an average image area ratio method in which the average image area ratio in an area having a predetermined number of pixels such as 1 or 100 pixels is determined can also be used. In addition a target value changing method in which the target value is gradually changed at the boundary between two adjacent ten line areas can be used instead of the above mentioned method in which the target value is rapidly changed at the boundary between two adjacent ten line areas. Further the algorithms for determining the target values of the primary transfer currents and the secondary transfer current are not limited to the algorithms mentioned above. Any algorithms for determining the target values based on the average image area ratios can be used. For example an algorithm which is illustrated in and which has an inflection point or a singularity can also be used.

In addition hereinbefore the tandem color printer producing multiple color images using four color toners has been described. However the image forming apparatus of the present invention is not limited thereto. For example an image forming apparatus in which multiple developing devices are arranged around one photoreceptor to develop electrostatic latent images which are formed one by one on the photoreceptor with different color toners and the resultant color toner images are transferred onto an intermediate transfer medium in every rotation cycle of the intermediate transfer medium to form a combined color toner image on the intermediate transfer medium can also be included in the image forming apparatus of the present invention.

The above mentioned printers are examples of the image forming apparatus of the present invention. The present invention includes the following embodiments.

The embodiment A of the image forming apparatus includes one or more image bearing members e.g. the photoreceptors to bear different primary color toner images an intermediate transfer medium e.g. the intermediate transfer belt to which the primary color toner images on the one or more image bearing members are primarily transferred to form a combined color toner image thereon a nip forming member e.g. the secondary transfer roller contacted with the intermediate transfer medium to form a transfer nip at which the combined color toner image on the intermediate transfer medium is secondarily transferred to a recording sheet and a transfer current output device e.g. the secondary transfer bias power source to apply a secondary transfer current to the secondary transfer nip while determining the secondary transfer current based on the area ratios of the different color toner images using a predetermined algorithm.

The method for primarily transferring color toner images includes a method in which primary color toner images on multiple image bearing members are transferred onto the intermediate transfer medium in such a manner that the primary color toner images are sequentially transferred onto the intermediate transfer medium in the predetermined order at respective primary transfer nips or a method in which each of the color toner images formed one by one on one image bearing member is transferred onto the intermediate transfer medium at one primary transfer nip in every rotation cycle of the intermediate transfer medium. The method for primarily transferring color toner images is not limited thereto.

The transfer current output device is characterized by determining the transfer current for transferring the combined color toner image to the recording sheet while estimating the transfer current per unit area needed for secondarily transferring one of the color toner images constituting the combined color toner image at the secondary transfer nip to be lower than that for secondarily transferring another of the color toner images which is primarily transferred to the intermediate transfer medium after the one of the color toner images is primarily transferred thereto.

The embodiment B is different from the embodiment A in that the transfer current output device is characterized by estimating the transfer current needed for secondarily transferring one of the color toner images constituting the combined color toner image to be not lower than that for secondarily transferring another of the color toner images which is primarily transferred to the intermediate transfer medium next to the one of the color toner images. When the transfer current output device performs such estimation the transfer currents needed for secondarily transferring the color toner images of the combined color toner image can be estimated in consideration of increase in charge quantity of the primary toner images which changes depending on the number of times that the color toner images pass primary transfer nips.

The embodiment C is different from the embodiment B in that the transfer current output device is characterized by estimating the transfer current needed for secondarily transferring a non overlapped area of one of the color toner images which area is not overlapped with the others of the color toner images to be not lower than that for transferring a non overlapped area of another of the color toner images which image is primarily transferred to the intermediate transfer medium next to the one of the color toner images. When the transfer current output device performs such estimation increase in charge quantity of the non overlapped areas of the color toner images can be estimated independently of increase in charge quantity of the overlapped areas of the color toner images thereby making it possible to determine the target value of the secondary transfer current so as to be close to the proper value.

The embodiment D is different from the embodiment C in that the transfer current output device is characterized by estimating the transfer current needed for transferring an overlapped area of two or more of the primary color toner images based on the combination of the two or more of the primary color toner images. When the transfer current output device performs such estimation the transfer current needed for secondarily transferring the overlapped area of two or more of the primary color toner images can be properly estimated thereby making it possible to precisely estimate the transfer currents needed for secondarily transferring overlapped color toner images of two or more of the primary color toner images e.g. secondary tertiary and quaternary color toner images .

The feature of the embodiment E is as follows. Specifically in any one of the embodiments A D the transfer current output device is characterized by estimating the transfer currents needed for secondarily transferring the color toner images in such a manner that as the image area ratio of a color toner image increases the absolute value of the target value of the secondary transfer current for secondarily transferring the color toner image is estimated so as to be greater. When the transfer current output device performs such estimation lack of the transfer current can be avoided.

The feature of the embodiment F is as follows. Specifically in any one of the embodiments A E the primary color toner images on the multiple image bearing members are primarily transferred onto the intermediate transfer medium at respective primary transfer nips to form a combined color toner image on the intermediate transfer medium and the image forming apparatus further includes a primary transfer current output device e.g. the primary transfer bias power sources which applies a primary transfer current individually to each of the primary transfer nips in such a manner that as the image area ratio of a primary toner image increases the target value absolute value of the primary transfer current is decreased. When the image forming apparatus has such a configuration the primary color toner images can be properly transferred onto the intermediate transfer medium without causing the deficient primary transfer problem.

The feature of the embodiment G is as follows. Specifically in any one of the embodiments A E the primary color toner images on the multiple image bearing members are primarily transferred onto the intermediate transfer medium at respective primary transfer nips to form a combined color toner image on the intermediate transfer medium and the image forming apparatus further includes a primary transfer current output device e.g. the primary transfer bias power sources which applies a primary transfer current individually while performing constant voltage control to each of the primary transfer nips in such a manner that as the image area ratio of a primary toner image increases the target value absolute value of the primary transfer voltage is decreased. When the image forming apparatus has such a configuration the primary color toner images can be properly transferred onto the intermediate transfer medium without causing the deficient primary transfer problem.

The feature of the embodiment H is as follows. Specifically in any one of the embodiments F and G the primary transfer current output device is characterized by determining the target value of the primary transfer current for primarily transferring one of the color toner images to the intermediate transfer medium so as to be smaller than that for primarily transferring another of the color toner images which is to be primarily transferred to the intermediate transfer medium before the one of the color toner images is primarily transferred thereto. When the image forming apparatus has such a configuration occurrence of the reverse translation problem in that a toner image which is previously transferred onto the intermediate transfer medium is reversely transferred onto an image bearing member at a primary transfer nip can be prevented.

The feature of the embodiment I is as follows. Specifically in any one of the embodiments D H the image forming apparatus is characterized in that primary transfer rollers are contacted with the backside of the intermediate transfer medium in such a manner that the primary transfer rollers are located on slightly downstream sides from the image bearing members corresponding to the primary transfer rollers in the moving direction of the intermediate transfer medium to form the primary transfer nips and the primary transfer current output device is connected with the primary transfer rollers to apply primary transfer currents thereto. When the image forming apparatus has such a configuration the number of times of occurrence of discharge at a small gap formed at the entrances of the primary transfer nips between the image bearing members and the corresponding primary transfer rollers can be reduced thereby preventing occurrence of an image scattering problem in that a toner image is scattered due to discharge.

Additional modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

