---

title: Mechanism to detect restricted access via internet hotspot
abstract: A wireless device automatically detects the redirection of its internet access via a wireless hotspot network. An algorithm in the device provides the flexibility to detect either or both of DNS redirection and HTTP redirection, as well as to automatically accommodate such internet redirection. The algorithm allows a wireless device user to be alerted and account for internet redirection when such internet redirection is automatically detected upon entering service via a hotspot. Alternatively, the wireless device may attempt to automatically meet the hotspot requirements and complete the internet access through the hotspot.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08296428&OS=08296428&RS=08296428
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 08296428
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120123
---
This application is a division of and claims the benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 539 959 Filed Aug. 12 2009 entitled MECHANISM TO DETECT RESTRICTED ACCESS VIA INTERNET HOTSPOT the disclosure of which also is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

In recent years mobile wireless communications have become increasingly popular. While desktop computers remain a part of the same network for a substantial period of time wireless devices such as laptops personal digital assistants PDAs smartphones cellphones and other portable computers are designed to be transportable and connect to wireless LAN networks hereinafter wireless hotspot networks or hotspots such as IEEE 802.11 WiFi networks. Such hotspots frequently provide internet access to a wireless device user and wireless device users may thus connect to hotspots for the purpose of attaining internet access. Hotspots are available in many public places including airports coffee shops hotels etc. and the financial cost of using hotspots is often low and sometimes free.

A wireless device such as a smartphone or laptop may possess the ability to use both hotspots and cellular base stations to access the internet. For internet access wireless devices may prefer hotspots over cellular base stations due to a lower financial cost and or a faster connection. When a hotspot is available a wireless device may switch its internet access connection from a cellular base station to the hotspot. The internet access switch may be automatic and thus the wireless device user may not even be aware of the switch.

A wireless device user will likely desire to have as few problems and interruptions of internet access as possible. However it is a common practice among hotspots to restrict internet access to a wireless device until after the wireless device user has performed a task such as for example accepting the terms and conditions of hotspot use paying a fee for internet access via the hotspot installing programming or performing some other form of authentication. Typically after connecting to a hotspot and opening a web browser a wireless device user may be instructed to perform such a task. Restriction until the task is performed is often based on redirecting a wireless device user s internet requests to a hotspot webpage. Such redirection commonly involves domain name system DNS forwarding or hypertext transfer protocol HTTP forwarding the terms forwarding and redirection have the same or similar meanings in this document and are used interchangeably .

For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 636 894 discloses a method for redirecting a computer user accessing a network. The method involves a gateway device receiving from the computer an HTTP request for a destination address and responding with an HTTP response corresponding to a login page.

Effects of hotspot redirection on wireless devices vary but as it has become popular for wireless device applications to access the internet negative effects can be significant. DNS redirection interferes with practically every wireless device application that accesses the internet as it is uncommon for wireless device applications to directly request IP addresses without first performing a DNS resolution on a domain name. While HTTP redirection may only interfere with applications that request web HTTP content in recent years the trend has been for applications to integrate web content. Such applications would be affected.

Effects may be particularly severe for wireless devices that switch between cellular base stations and hotspots for internet access. In such cases a wireless device user may be unaware of the switch between internet access services and may not know why the wireless device applications are not functioning properly.

Hence a need exists for automatically detecting internet access redirection of a wireless device particularly via a hotspot. Further a need exists for alerting a wireless device user of such redirection so the user may take appropriate actions.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

The various technologies disclosed herein relate to detecting internet access redirection of service for a wireless device. Redirection detection may ordinarily be in response to detecting a wireless device s connection to a wireless hotspot network hotspot such as for example an IEEE 802.11 WiFi wireless network or another wireless LAN network but not a cellular base station . The redirection detection may provide the flexibility to use any redirection technique that involves a wireless device receiving infoiination via the hotspot that is different than information expected to be received. Such a difference may serve as the basis for determining that a hotspot is redirecting internet access of the wireless device.

Reference now is made in detail to the examples illustrated in the accompanying drawings and discussed below. is a flow chart that illustrates an example of a method for a wireless device to detect redirection of its internet access. At a high level the wireless device detects a connection to a hotspot. In response an internet request is sent and a response is received. The request is initially addressed to a source that does not implement redirection and for which the wireless device knows some or all of the response that the source is expected to send back. A comparison of the received response with the expected response may reveal that the response is unexpected or otherwise shows some indication of redirection. On this basis it may be determined that internet access is being redirected. An alert then may be provided to the user to allow the user take appropriate action e.g. to login to the hotspot network or the wireless device may attempt to automatically respond to the access requirements of the hotspot.

With reference to the flow chart of the following is an outline of the steps of an automatic internet redirection detection which may be performed by a wireless device. An exemplary system in which a wireless device may perform these steps is described later with regard to .

In step a wireless device may automatically detect connection to a hotspot such as a WiFi network or other wireless LAN network. In a typical application the wireless device may connect to a hotspot in any number of places including for example a hotel an airport or a coffee shop. The wireless device may detect a hotspot connection automatically so that the redirection detection process may be seamless for a wireless device user for example so that the wireless device user may not have to unexpectedly encounter the negative effects of hotspot redirection nor inform the wireless device of such a connection.

Automatic detection of a hotspot connection may exist in any wireless device with hotspot connection capabilities such as a wireless device that has WiFi capabilities. A wireless device may also have an ability to connect to a cellular base station. For example a smartphone may have the ability to connect to a cellular base station as well as the wireless access point of a WiFi hotspot network or system. However automatic detection of internet redirection may be performed in wireless devices with or without cellular base station connection capabilities. For example a laptop may not be able to connect to a cellular base station but may still have the ability to connect to a hotspot. Automatic detection of internet redirection may still be performed in such a laptop. In a device such as a laptop or smartphone having both public cellular and wireless LAN communication capabilities the wireless LAN detection and hotspot access redirection often occur as the device transitions from public cellular service to the wireless LAN service.

Internet redirection may commonly occur in many hotspots. Reasons for internet redirection may include requiring a wireless device user to pay a fee before using the hotspot requiring a wireless device user to agree to the terms of service of the hotspot before using the hotspot or merely requiring a wireless device user to log in or otherwise confirm identity.

In step in response to automatically detecting a connection to a hotspot a wireless device may send an internet request via the hotspot. In one implementation an internet request may be a request to resolve a domain name to an internet protocol IP address. For example the wireless device may send a request for a domain name server DNS A record on a domain name. In another implementation an internet request may be a request to get all or a portion of a web page for example using HTTP. As noted earlier the present concepts can detect redirection that utilizes any form of HTTP including for example regular HTTP and HTTPS. The wireless device may have stored responses it expects for the web page. Stored responses may include a web page s header data a web page s body data and HTTP status codes. For example the wireless device may send an HTTP HEAD for a web page in order to request the web page s header data and HTTP status code. As another example the wireless device may send an HTTP GET for a web page in order to request the web page s header data body data and HTTP status code. An HTTP GET may for example be requested when it is suspected that javascript or another technology is being embedded in the body data of the web page to cause internet forwarding redirection .

In step a response may be received via the hotspot in response to sending an internet request. In one implementation the response may be an IP address. For example an IP address may be the response if the internet request was to resolve a domain name to an IP address. In another implementation the response may be HTTP data such as an HTTP status code HTTP headers of a web page and or the HTTP body of a web page. HTTP data may be the received response if the internet request was for HTTP data. An HTTP status code may typically be received regardless of what other HTTP data is received. Other HTTP data may depend on the sent HTTP request and may include HTTP headers of a web page and or the HTTP body of a web page.

In step the received response may be examined or compared with one or more pieces of data for at least one expected response. In one implementation where the response is an IP address a reverse resolution request may be sent to determine if the IP address actually corresponds with the domain name whose resolution was requested. For example a wireless device may request a DNS PTR record lookup on the received IP address. In another implementation where the response is HTTP data the HTTP status code may first be examined. The HTTP status code may be compared with expected HTTP status codes. Examples of expected HTTP status codes may include 2xx and 3xx HTTP status codes. A 3xx HTTP status code may indicate that HTTP forwarding is taking place. A 2xx HTTP status code may indicate that the HTTP headers should be examined and compared with expected HTTP headers for the web page. A 2xx HTTP status code may also indicate that the HTTP body from an HTTP GET should be examined and compared with an expected HTTP body for the web page. Comparison of both an HTTP HEAD and an HTTP GET response to the responses expected from the web page may be for an exact match since it may be that the expected web page HTTP data should correspond exactly with the received HTTP data.

In step the results of comparing the received response to an expected response are used to determine if there is a discrepancy. A discrepancy may include a difference between the received response and an expected response or it may simply be a comparison which results in a determination that the response while expected is not a response which indicates no forwarding is taking place. In one example a discrepancy may exist where the domain name from a DNS PTR record lookup on a received IP address is different from the expected IP address for the domain name originally requested to be resolved. In another example a discrepancy may exist where the received HTTP status code is not 2xx and or where the received HTTP headers are different from the expected HTTP headers and or where the received response to the HTTP GET is different from the expected response to the HTTP GET. If a discrepancy exists the wireless device shall go to step . Otherwise the wireless device shall go to step .

In step the wireless device has determined that a discrepancy exists and therefore that the hotspot is redirecting internet access. At this step the wireless device may for example choose to somehow alert the wireless device user of the internet redirection or it may open a web browser so that the user is presented with the web page to which the hotspot is redirecting. In another example the wireless device may attempt to automatically deal with the internet redirection by giving the required information to the hotspot by for example using HTTP protocol to communicate with the redirection web page and providing it the necessary information. Such information could be based on stored user data or on previously used data for the hotspot. When the wireless device has dealt with the internet redirection it shall go to step .

To appreciate the application of the above discussed algorithm it may be helpful to consider the context of an exemplary system in which internet redirection detection takes place.

Internet may refer to the public packet switched data communication network commonly referred to as the Internet. 

For discussion purposes the exemplary system shows two networks and operated in accord with different technology standards. Hotspot network may include a wireless access point WAP for wireless LAN communications with wireless device s . For example WAP may be a transceiver compatible with one or more current wireless standards such as 802.11 WiFi . WAP may connect to a wired connection such as an Ethernet network. WAP may also function as a network switch for prioritizing traffic usage or this function may be performed by a separate device not separately shown . Although the drawing shows only one WAP for convenience those skilled in the art will recognize that actual implementations of the network may include any number of additional WAPs.

Hotspot network may also include a gateway . Gateway may govern all communications traffic between WAP and the internet . Hotspot network may use gateway to conduct authentication checks before a wireless device user may access the internet . Authentication may include entering billing information other user identification information an agreement to terms of service etc. Gateway may enforce authentication by for example restricting internet access until the user authenticates. Internet access restriction until the authentication task is performed may be based on redirecting the wireless device user s internet requests to a hotspot web page such as a web page contained on hotspot server . To conduct such internet redirection gateway may use may use domain name system DNS forwarding or it may use hypertext transfer protocol HTTP forwarding.

If gateway uses DNS forwarding it may intercept domain name resolution requests sent by an unauthenticated wireless device to a DNS server and return the IP address of for example an authentication web page as may be contained on hotspot server . In this manner wireless device may intentionally send internet requests such as web page requests to web server for news content and thus may unintentionally receive the authentication web page from hotspot server instead of the requested web page from internet .

In another DNS forwarding implementation which may or may not employ gateway for DNS forwarding wireless device may request domain name resolution from hotspot server . For domain name resolution requests hotspot server may return the IP address of the authentication web page until the wireless device authenticates so that the user s internet requests are similarly forwarded to the authentication web page until the device has successfully been authenticated.

Regardless of the DNS forwarding technique employed by hotspot network until authenticating many wireless device applications may not work properly due the lack of notice concerning the internet redirection.

Various techniques exist for hotspot network to perform HTTP forwarding on wireless device . If gateway uses HTTP forwarding it may intercept HTTP protocol requests sent by wireless device until wireless device authenticates. In one example gateway may respond to HTTP requests with an HTTP response corresponding to an authentication web page. In another example gateway may retrieve and send to the wireless device the requested HTTP data but with the addition of javascript or other technologies in the body of the HTTP data in order to carry out redirection to an authentication page. In still another example gateway may insert HTTP tags into the requested HTTP data for the purpose of automatically refreshing the requested HTTP data to an authentication web page. In yet another example which may be combined with previous examples gateway may send to wireless device an HTTP forwarding status code. For example gateway may send a status code indicating temporary redirection.

With HTTP forwarding as with DNS forwarding many wireless device applications employing HTTP protocol may not work properly due to the lack of notice concerning the internet redirection.

Mobile network may provide mobile telephone communications as well as Internet services. For example mobile network may connect to the public switched telephone network PSTN and public packet switched data communication networks such as the Internet . Packet switched communications via either hotspot network or mobile network may support a variety of services such as communications of text and multimedia messages e mail web browsing programming and media downloading etc. System shows a web server by way of example. Wireless device may connect to mobile network through cellular base station .

With reference to the flow chart of and the exemplary system of the following is an outline of the steps of an automatic internet redirection detection which may be performed by a wireless device in the exemplary system where the detection technique involves detecting DNS redirection and announces redirection detection to the wireless device user.

In step in response to automatically detecting the connection to hotspot network the wireless device sends a request using the hotspot to resolve a domain name to an IP address for example through sending a request for a DNS A record on the domain name. This DNS resolution request may be sent to hotspot server or it may be sent through the hotspot network to DNS server .

In step the wireless device receives an IP address in response to requesting resolution of the domain name using hotspot network .

In step the wireless device requests reverse resolution of the IP address received in step to determine if the IP address actually corresponds with the domain name whose resolution was requested. For example wireless device may request a DNS PTR record lookup on the IP address. The reverse resolution request may be sent to hotspot server or DNS server . Regardless of the server the reverse resolution request is sent to the wireless device may expect that it will receive an accurate reverse resolution of the IP address back to the domain name used in step .

In step the wireless device receives a domain name from the reverse resolution request on the IP address.

In step the wireless device compares the domain name received in step to the original domain name of step . For example the wireless device may compare the domain names for sameness.

In step the wireless device determines based on the comparing of step whether or not the domain names are the same. If there is a discrepancy that is to say if the domain names are not the same then the wireless device shall go to step . Otherwise the wireless device shall go to step .

In step the wireless device has determined that the domain names are not the same and therefore that the hotspot network is redirecting internet access based on DNS redirection. At this step to obtain internet access via the wireless hotspot network the wireless device may choose to somehow alert the wireless device user of the internet redirection or it may attempt to automatically authenticate to the hotspot network . For example the wireless device may open a web browser so that the user is presented with the web page to which the hotspot is redirecting and generate an alert to attract the user s attention. Generating the alert may involve playing an alert tone or carrying out any other attention getting action for example vibrating blinking etc. . The browser presents the webpage typically for obtaining internet access via the wireless hotspot network. The user may provide an input via the browser and in response the wireless devices submits via HTTP the needed action to obtain use of the hotpot for example to accept the terms and conditions. In an automatic mode the device may pass stored or cached authentication information from a prior use of the hotpot. When the wireless device has dealt with the DNS redirection it shall go to step .

Wireless device may make frequent internet connection switches from hotspot to hotspot or from a hotspot to a cellular base station and back to a hotspot. Thus from step a wireless device may go to step to repeat the DNS redirection detection process. However the wireless device may choose not to attempt to detect a connection to a hotspot step until it has determined that the connection to the current hotspot is lost.

With reference to the flow chart of and the exemplary system of the following is an outline of the steps of an automatic internet redirection detection which may be performed by a wireless device in the exemplary system where the detection technique involves detecting HTTP redirection and announces redirection detection to the wireless device user.

In step in response to automatically detecting the connection to hotspot network the wireless device sends a request to web server using the hotspot to get an HTTP response for a web page whose data it may have stored. Stored responses may include the web page s header data the web page s body data and HTTP status codes. For example the wireless device may send to web server an HTTP HEAD request for the web page in order to request the web page s header data and HTTP status code. As another example the wireless device may send to web server an HTTP GET request for the web page in order to request the web page s header data body data and HTTP status code. An HTTP GET request may for example be requested when it is suspected that javascript or another technology is being embedded in the body data of the web page to cause internet forwarding redirection .

In step the wireless device receives an HTTP response via the hotspot network in response to the HTTP request sent in step . The HTTP response may include an HTTP status code supposed HTTP headers of the web page and or the supposed HTTP body of the web page. An HTTP status code may typically be received regardless of what other HTTP data is received. Other HTTP data may depend on the sent HTTP request such as an HTTP GET request or an HTTP HEAD request .

In step the wireless device checks the received HTTP status code against expected HTTP status codes. Examples of expected HTTP status codes may include 2xx and 3xx HTTP status codes.

In step the wireless device determines if the received HTTP status code is in the 3xx range. A 3xx HTTP status code may directly indicate that HTTP forwarding is taking place. If the received HTTP status code is 3xx the wireless device shall go to step . Otherwise the wireless device shall go to step .

In step the wireless device has determined that the hotspot network is using HTTP redirection to redirect its internet access. At this step the wireless device may choose to somehow alert the wireless device user of the internet redirection or it may open a web browser so that the user is presented with the web page to which the hotspot is redirecting or it may attempt to automatically authenticate to the hotspot network in a manner similar to that described above relative to step of . When the wireless device has dealt with the HTTP redirection it shall go to step .

In step the wireless device determines if the received HTTP status code is in the 2xx range. A 2xx HTTP status code may indicate that the HTTP header should be examined and compared with an expected HTTP header for the web page. A 2xx HTTP status code may also indicate that the HTTP body from an HTTP GET should be examined and compared with an expected HTTP body for the web page. Since the wireless device has already checked for a 3xx HTTP status code in step if the HTTP status code is also not 2xx there may be other problems with the connection to the hotspot network and the wireless device shall to back to step . Otherwise the wireless device shall go to step .

In step the wireless device compares the rest of the received HTTP response for e.g. HTTP headers and or the HTTP body depending on the HTTP request that was sent to the HTTP response it expects for the web page. For example the wireless device may compare the received HTTP headers from a sent HTTP HEAD request to expected HTTP headers.

In step the wireless device determines whether the received HTTP response is the same as the expected HTTP response. If the HTTP responses are not the same wireless device shall go to step . Otherwise wireless device shall go to step .

Wireless device may make frequent internet connection switches from hotspot to hotspot or from a hotspot to a cellular base station and back to a hotspot. Thus from step a wireless device may go to step to repeat the HTTP redirection detection process. However the wireless device may choose not to attempt to detect a connection to a hotspot step until it has determined that the connection to the current hotspot is lost.

With reference to the flow chart of and the exemplary system of the following is an outline of the steps of an automatic internet redirection detection which may be performed by a wireless device in the exemplary system . The automatic internet redirection detection of involves the potential detection of two types of internet access redirection.

In step the wireless device performs a first type of detecting whether hotspot network is conducting internet access redirection. This first type of internet access redirection detection may detect for example HTTP redirection or it may detect DNS redirection.

In step the wireless device determines based on the detecting of step whether hotspot network is conducting the first type of internet access redirection. If so the wireless device shall go to step . Otherwise the wireless device shall go to step .

In step the wireless device has determined that the hotspot network is using the first or second type of internet access redirection to redirect its internet access. At this step the wireless device may choose to somehow alert the wireless device user of the internet redirection or it may open a web browser so that the user is presented with the web page to which the hotspot is redirecting or it may attempt to automatically authenticate to the hotspot network . When the wireless device has dealt with the redirection it shall go to step .

If the first type of redirection was not detected at step then the processing branches at step to step . In step the wireless device performs a second type of detecting whether hotspot network is conducting internet access redirection. This second type of internet access redirection detection may detect a redirection technique not checked for by the first type of detection. For example if the first type of detection checked for HTTP redirection the second type of detection may check for DNS redirection. If the first type of detection checked for DNS redirection the second type of detection may check for HTTP redirection.

In step the wireless device determines based on the detecting of step whether hotspot network is conducting the second type of internet access redirection. If it is the wireless device shall go to step . Otherwise the wireless device shall go to step .

For digital wireless communications the wireless device also includes at least one of digital transceivers XCVR and . The wireless device is a multimode device capable of operations on various technology type networks such as the networks and . The concepts discussed here encompass embodiments of the wireless device utilizing any digital transceivers that conform to current or future developed digital wireless communication standards.

In the example the transceiver is compatible with one or more standards of communication implemented in the public wide area mobile network such as CDMA 1xRTT EvDO LTE GSM or UMTS. The transceiver is compatible with one or more standards of communication implemented in wireless local area networks like network such as one of the WiFi standards and or WiMAX.

The transceiver provides two way wireless communication of information such as vocoded speech samples and or digital message information in a selected one of the technology modes. The transceiver also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of the various voice and data services provided via the wireless device and the communication network. Each transceiver connects through radio frequency RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna . In the example the transceiver is configured for RF communication in accord with a digital wireless protocol. For the network selection function network communications via the transceiver and antenna may include detection of the available network technology types in any given service area and selection of an available network for communications.

The transceiver also provides two way wireless communication of information such as vocoded speech samples and or digital message information in a selected one of the technology modes. The transceiver sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of the various voice and data services provided via the wireless device and the communication network. The transceiver connects through RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna . In the example transceiver is configured for RF communications in accord with a wireless LAN protocol a hotspot such as WiFi. For the network selection function network communications via the transceiver and antenna may include detection of the available wireless LAN technology types in any given service area and selection of an available network for communications. Wireless device may use transceiver to communicate with a hotspot network and may use transceiver to communicate with a mobile network . Since the transceiver may connect to the hotspot network it is through using this transceiver that the wireless device may detect internet access redirection.

The wireless device includes a display for displaying messages menus call related information dialed by the user calling party numbers displaying applications and web pages etc. A keypad enables dialing digits for voice and or data calls as well as generating selection inputs for example as may be keyed in by the user based on a displayed menu or as a cursor control and selection of a highlighted item on a displayed screen. The display and keypad are the physical elements providing a textual or graphical user interface. In addition to normal telephone and data communication related input output these elements also may be used for display of menus and other information to the user and user input of selections if needed during a system selection or login operation or during a software download operation. Various combinations of the keypad display microphone and speaker may be used as the physical input output elements of the GUI for multimedia e.g. audio and or video communications. Other user interface elements may be used such as a stylus and touch sensitive display screen as in a PDA or smart phone.

A microprocessor serves as a programmable controller for the wireless device in that it controls all operations of the wireless device in accord with programming that it executes for all normal operations and for operations involved in automatically detecting internet redirection. In the example the wireless device includes flash type program memory for storage of various software or firmware program routines and mobile configuration settings. The wireless device may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. In a present implementation the flash type program memory stores firmware such as a boot routine device driver software an operating system call processing software and vocoder control software and any of a wide variety of other applications such as client browser software and short message service software. The memories and also store various data such as telephone numbers and server addresses downloaded data such as multimedia content and various data input by the user. Programming stored in the flash type program memory sometimes referred to as firmware is loaded into and executed by the microprocessor . The executable programming stored in the flash memory may include automatic internet redirection detection programming to enable the device to implement procedures like those discussed above relative to and .

A server for example includes a data communication interface for packet data communication. The server also includes a central processing unit CPU in the form of one or more processors for executing program instructions. The server platform typically includes an internal communication bus program storage and data storage for various data files to be processed and or communicated by the server although the server often receives programming and data via network communications. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such servers are conventional in nature and it is presumed that those skilled in the art are adequately familiar therewith. Of course the server functions may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms to distribute the processing load. The software programming relating to the redirection detection techniques discussed herein may be downloaded and or updated from a computer platform for example from a server e.g. or the like communicating with the wireless device e.g. via the network e.g. . Although special purpose devices may be used to support the download functions such devices also may be implemented using one or more hardware platforms intended to represent a general class of data processing device commonly used to run server and or client programming so as to implement the functions discussed above albeit with an appropriate network connection for data communication.

Hence aspects of the methods of automatic internet redirection detection outlined above may be embodied in programming. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated list data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media include any or all of the memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to tangible storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

Hence a machine readable medium may take many forms including but not limited to a tangible storage medium a carrier wave medium or a physical transmission medium. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s or the like such as may be used to implement the information flow control etc. shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media can take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD or DVD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical storage medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions and or associated list data to a processor for execution.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

The description above has used a large number of acronyms to refer to various services messages and system components. Although generally known use of several of these acronyms is not strictly standardized in the art. For the convenience of the reader the following list correlates terms to acronyms as used in the detailed description above.

