---

title: Wireless network edge guardian
abstract: A mobile communication device. The mobile communication device comprises a radio transceiver to communicatively couple the mobile communication device to a radio access network by a wireless communication link, a memory, a processor, and an application stored in the memory. When executed by the processor, the application builds a communication history of the mobile communication device, analyzes the communication history of the mobile communication device to determine a pattern of communication usage of the mobile communication device, monitors recent communication usage of the mobile communication device, compares the recent communication usage of the mobile communication device to the pattern of communication usage of the mobile communication device, and when the recent communication usage of the mobile communication device differs from the pattern of communication usage of the mobile communication device by more than a predefined threshold, blocks at least one attempt to initiate communication by the mobile communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08588764&OS=08588764&RS=08588764
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08588764
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120126
---
Mobile communication devices are becoming increasingly intertwined with our daily lives. Recently communication devices have begun to support installation of third party applications onto the communication device to provide new functionalities. A wide variety of third party applications are available and new third party applications are developed and brought into the user community all the time. By the nature of the development and distribution model of third party applications the manufacturer of the mobile communication devices and or the provider of wireless communication services may not test the execution of these third party applications in the environment provided by the mobile communication device hardware firmware and or software originally delivered. A third party application may have undetected bugs and or may interact in an undesirable manner with the mobile communication device as originally delivered. The behavior of third party applications and their impact on the user experience may have implications for user satisfaction with the mobile communication device and or the wireless communication service.

In an embodiment a mobile communication device is disclosed. The mobile communication device comprises a radio transceiver to communicatively couple the mobile communication device to a radio access network by a wireless communication link a memory a processor and an application stored in the memory. When executed by the processor the application builds a communication history of the mobile communication device analyzes the communication history of the mobile communication device to determine a pattern of communication usage of the mobile communication device monitors recent communication usage of the mobile communication device compares the recent communication usage of the mobile communication device to the pattern of communication usage of the mobile communication device and when the recent communication usage of the mobile communication device differs from the pattern of communication usage of the mobile communication device by more than a predefined threshold blocks at least one attempt to initiate communication by the mobile communication device.

In an embodiment a method of managing a radio access network is disclosed. The method comprises monitoring communications between mobile communication devices and a radio access network based on monitoring communications between mobile communication devices and the radio access network determining a usage pattern of the radio access network and determining that recent usage by mobile communication devices of at least part of the radio access network differs from the usage pattern of the radio access network by an amount that exceeds a predetermined threshold. The method further comprises based on recent radio access network usage differing from the usage pattern of the radio access network by an amount exceeding the predetermined threshold transmitting a message to a mobile communication device via the radio access network wherein the message requests the mobile communication device to modify a communication activity of the mobile communication device.

In an embodiment a method of managing a radio access network is disclosed. The method comprises receiving messages from a first plurality of mobile communication devices via the radio access network each message identifying an abnormal communication usage of one of the first plurality of mobile communication devices analyzing the received messages and based on the analysis of the received messages transmitting a message to each of a second plurality of mobile communication devices via the radio access network wherein the message requests modification of communication activity of the mobile communication devices and wherein at least some of the second plurality of mobile communication devices do not belong to the first plurality of mobile communication devices.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Problems may be caused by mobile communication devices that interfere with the proper operation of wireless access networks for example the ability of mobile phones to place phone calls or to place data calls. The problems may result from software bugs in the mobile communication devices. For example third party applications that a user purchases from an on line store and install in his or her mobile phone may not be properly tested and may exhibit such interfering behavior. Because wireless communication service providers do not have much control over such third party applications there is little the service provider can do to assure the reliability of such third party applications. The present disclosure teaches a system and method for proactively monitoring communications behavior and throttling or halting communications of the mobile communication device under predefined circumstances.

For example a mobile communication device may accumulate data characterizing its communication usage perform statistical analysis of that data and use the statistical results to detect when its own communication usage exceeds its communication norms by a predefined amount. For example if the mobile communication device normally sends short message service SMS or text messages addressed to no more than four addresses when the device detects that a text message addressed to 100 recipients is queued to be transmitted a monitoring application make take proactive action. When abnormal behavior is detected the mobile communication device can take a variety of proactive steps to respond to the abnormal behavior. For example the mobile communication device may halt or pause an in progress communication activity and pop up a dialog box notifying the user of the anomalous behavior and asking the user to approve completion of the paused communication activity. Alternatively the mobile communication device may terminate the in progress communication activity send a message to a corresponding monitoring server in the wireless service provider network describing the abnormal communication usage and then turn off the mobile communication device.

As another example an application executing on a server in a wireless communication service provider s network may determine wireless communication usage norms monitor divergence of mobile communication device wireless communication usage from those usage norms and take action to prevent and or attenuate degradation of wireless access. For example if the server application determines that an abnormal communication usage is occurring it may send messages to mobile devices to shut off all non trusted applications to shut off all third party applications to shut off short message service functionality or shut off some other functionality. Alternatively the server application may be notified by one or more mobile communication devices that have self detected their own abnormal communication usage and have sent a message reporting the same to the server. In response the server may send a message to these mobile devices instructing them to selectively disable or turn off associated communication applications. Additionally the server may send a message to other mobile communication devices to take action to avoid the identified problem for example other mobile communication devices of the same model or type of device other mobile communication devices having the same third party application installed or based on some other shared communication characteristic.

Turning now to a communication system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a plurality of mobile communication devices . The device may comprise a radio transceiver a guardian mobile application a plurality of communication applications and one or more non trusted applications . The device is configured to use the radio transceiver to establish a wireless communication link with a base transceiver station BTS and the base transceiver station provides communications connectivity of the device to a network . The network may comprise any combination of private and public networks.

It is understood that the system may comprise any number of mobile communication devices and any number of base transceiver stations . The collectivity of base transceiver stations may be said to comprise a radio access network in that these base transceiver stations may provide a radio communication links to the mobile communication devices to provide access to the network . The radio access network may be abstracted in different ways and may comprise in addition to the base transceiver stations servers and data stores such as home location registers HLRs or servers that implement the functionality of home location registers visitor location registers VLRs or servers that implement the functionality of visitor location registers base station controllers BSCs mobile switching centers MSCs and other network nodes that are specifically associated with providing wireless access and connectivity to the mobile communication devices .

The radio transceiver may communication with the base transceiver station using any of a variety of wireless communication protocols including a code division multiple access CDMA wireless communication protocol a global system for mobile communication GSM wireless communication protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless communication protocol a world wide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless communication protocol or another wireless communication protocol. The device may be any of a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a wireless enabled computer or other mobile communication device. In an embodiment the mobile communication device may have other components not shown such as a near field communication NFC radio transceiver a wireless local area network WLAN radio transceiver or other components.

The communication applications may comprise a voice communication application a data communication application a web browser application an email application a short message system SMS or texting application a multimedia message system MMS application and other communication applications. The communication applications may be standard communication applications that are delivered by an original equipment manufacturer OEM who assembles the mobile communication device . The communication applications may be stored as firmware or software in a trusted memory area of the mobile communication device . The communication applications may expose application programming interfaces APIs accessible to other applications for example to non trusted applications to provide wireless communication functionality to the other applications.

The non trusted applications may be applications that are installed on the mobile communication device by a user for example after the mobile communication device is sold to the user. The non trusted applications may be provided by third party developers who may not be subject to design and or quality control standards defined by the wireless service provider. The non trusted applications may be freeware applications and may be of dubious integrity or reliability. As such the non trusted applications may have the potential to interfere with the normal operation of the radio access network for example to interfere with the mobile communication devices establishing a wireless link with the base transceiver stations . The non trusted applications may interfere with normal operations or the radio access network either by accident for example as a result of a poor design or coding errors or by malicious intent for example as a result of a malware incorporated in one of the non trusted applications . Typical network security architectures are based on establishing a point of demarcation between outside and inside the network and protect the inside of the network with a firewall. Typically the firewall is located somewhere within the network cloud illustrated in and may provide limited or no protection to the radio access network. For example the firewall is typically not located between the base transceiver stations and the mobile communication devices and hence cannot secure the base transceiver stations from problems associated with the physical PHY layer radio signals.

In an embodiment the guardian mobile application monitors the behavior of the communication applications and takes action to reduce the risk that the mobile communication device may interfere with normal operation of the radio access network. In an embodiment the guardian mobile application receives and acts on requests to adapt the communication usage of the mobile communication device for example requests from a guardian network application executing on a network server that is coupled to the network . The guardian mobile application may be able to inhibit pause and or shut down one or more of the communication applications . The guardian mobile application may be able to inhibit pause and or shut down one or more of the non trusted applications . The guardian mobile application may also send messages and or reports to the guardian network application for example providing communication statistics and or communication metrics associated with the communication usage of the subject mobile communication device . The guardian mobile application may send a message to the guardian network application identifying a particular anomalous communication usage or communication usage of the mobile communication device that the guardian mobile application has detected.

The guardian mobile application may collect a variety of data about the use of the communication applications . In some contexts this collection of data may be referred to as a communication history of the mobile communication device . For example the guardian mobile application may store logs of communication activities such as voice call records data call records browser sessions short message service messages or texts. Alternatively the communication applications may themselves generate logs of their activities and these logs of communication activities may be accessible to the guardian mobile application .

The guardian mobile application may statistically analyze the communication activities of the mobile communication device to determine communication norms communication means communication averages or other communication usage expectations. In some contexts the results of this analysis may be referred to as a pattern of communication usage or a communication usage pattern. For example the guardian mobile application may determine a mean or average frequency of sending short message service messages by the mobile communication device . The unit time interval of the frequency may be any time interval for example a hour time interval a day time interval or some other time interval. For example the mean frequency or average frequency of sending text messages may be expressed as texts per hour or texts per day. The guardian mobile application may determine a mean or average number of addressees in text messages and or email messages. The guardian mobile application may also determine a standard deviation from the mean or average associated with one or more of the communication activities.

The guardian mobile application may determine the statistical means and averages and associated standard deviations over a recent window of time for example based on logs accumulated over the most recent seven days over the most recent 30 days over the most recent three months or some other time interval. The guardian mobile application may recalculate or re determine the statistical means and averages and associated standard deviations periodically for example every day every week every month or some other period of time. Note that the period of time over which data is collected for determining norms and standard deviations may be different from the period of time when norms and standard deviations are redetermined or recalculated. For example the norms may be determined using data collected over the last month and these norms may be determined every day.

In an embodiment the guardian mobile application may compare current or recent communication usage or communication behavior of the mobile communication device to the associated mean or average communication usage or communication behavior of the mobile communication device . When the recent or current communication usage or communication behavior of the mobile communication device deviates significantly from the associated average or mean the guardian mobile application may trigger a variety of precautionary and or remediating actions. In an embodiment a significant deviation may be defined as communication usage that differs from a mean or average communication usage or communication pattern by more than a predefined threshold either positively or negatively. In an embodiment a significant deviation may be defined as communication usage that differs from a mean or average communication usage or communication pattern by more than a threshold portion of a standard deviation.

For example sending text messages out at a rate that exceeds the average or mean hourly texting rate by more than a single standard deviation may act as a trigger. Alternatively the triggering threshold may be defined as 2 standard deviations or some other appropriate threshold. Different communication modes may be associated with different triggering thresholds. The guardian mobile application may periodically compare the current or recent communication usage to the associated average or mean communication usage for example every 5 minutes every 15 minutes every hour or at some other periodic interval. Alternatively the guardian mobile application may compare the current or recent communication usage to the associated averages or means after a predefined number of invocations of each communication application . For example in an embodiment the text messaging usage may be compared to the average or mean frequency of text messaging after each transmission of 10 texts. Thus the comparison of usage to averages or means of each communication application may be performed at different times as triggered by the usage of the subject communication application .

When triggered the guardian mobile application may present a notification of the deviant communication usage to the user of the mobile communication device . The guardian mobile application may pause the subject communication application until a user of the mobile communication device provides an input acknowledging and approving the communication usage. For example in an embodiment the guardian mobile application may present a query or dialog box to the user of the mobile communication device to ask the user if he or she wants to continue the communication that differs from the communication usage pattern. The guardian mobile application may require the user to input a personal identification number PIN or password before releasing the pause on the subject communication application . When triggered the guardian mobile application may disable all non trusted applications at least temporarily. Alternatively the guardian mobile application may disable a selected non trusted application for example a non trusted application that had recently been invoking the application programming interface of the subject communication application . A disabled or paused communication application or non trusted application may remain paused or disabled until a message is received from a guardian network application executing on a network server coupled to the network for example a network server operated by a wireless service provider. In an embodiment any of the above actions may be referred to as blocking at least one attempt to initiate communication by the mobile communication device .

In embodiment the guardian mobile application may monitor activity such as entering and exiting special operation modes of the mobile communication device for example an airplane mode or a power off mode. If the guardian mobile application identifies a deviant and or abnormal pattern of special operation mode transitions the guardian mobile application may take precautionary or corrective action. For example the guardian mobile application may delay a transition out of airplane mode for example delaying transition out of airplane mode by 15 seconds 1 minute 5 minutes or minutes. The time delay for performing the transition may be determined as a random time delay within a range of possible time delays. A random offset from a minimum time delay may be calculated based on a randomizing seed value such as an equipment identification number EID associated with the device a dialable number associated with the device a street number associated with a user of the device an age of a user associated with the device or some other seed value.

Deviant and or abnormal patterns of special operation mode transitions may be defined as a repetition of the subject transition within a predefined period of time. For example powering off the mobile communication device twice within 5 minutes or less may be defined as a trigger. Alternatively powering off the device three times within 5 minutes or less may be defined as a trigger. Alternatively powering on the device twice within 5 minutes or less may be defined as a trigger. Alternatively powering on the device three times within 5 minutes may be defined as a trigger. Other predefined time periods may also be used for example 10 minutes 15 minutes 60 minutes or another time period.

The guardian mobile application may send messages to the guardian network application reporting any deviations of communication usage from the normal usage pattern or unusual operation mode transition patterns of the mobile communication device . These reports may include supporting information such as values of the average the mean and the standard deviation of the recent communication usage from the usage pattern of the subject communication application on the mobile communication device . These reports may include the current deviant usage value of the subject communication application .

The guardian network application may send messages requesting or commanding the guardian mobile application on the mobile communication device to take remedial action. The remedial action may comprise modifying a communication activity of the mobile communication device . The remedial action may comprise disabling all non trusted applications . The remedial action may comprise pausing one or more communication applications . In an embodiment the guardian network application may analyze reports from the guardian mobile application executing on a plurality of mobile communication devices and determine remedial actions based on this analysis. Based on this analysis the guardian network application may send messages to undertake remedial action to the guardian mobile application executing on the mobile communication devices that reported their anomalous communication usage as well as to send messages to undertake remedial action to the guardian mobile application executing on other mobile communication device that have not reported detecting anomalous communication usage.

In an embodiment the guardian network application may monitor communications between the mobile communication devices and the radio access network for example the base transceiver stations and determine a communication usage pattern of the devices . The guardian network application may monitor these communications by accessing and analyzing logs records call detail records CDRs or other data stored in the network . The communication usage pattern of the devices may be determined as statistical means and averages of communication usage and as standard deviations related to those means and or averages. In this case the means and averages may be calculated across a plurality of mobile electronic devices and hence may comprise a kind of aggregate means averages and standard deviations.

The guardian network application may further determine recent communication usage of at least some of the mobile communication devices for example communication usage of the radio access network by the devices . When the guardian network application determines that recent communication usage deviates from the communication usage pattern by more than a predefined amount the guardian network application may send messages to at least some of the mobile communication devices requesting the devices to take remedial action.

Turning now to a method is described. At block communications between mobile communication devices and a radio access network are monitored. For example the guardian network application monitors mobile communications activities of a plurality of the mobile communication devices . In an embodiment the guardian network application may monitor the communication activities of the mobile communication devices at least in part by accessing logs records call detail records and other data stored in data stores within the network .

At block based on monitoring communications between mobile communication devices and the radio access network a usage pattern of the communications between the mobile communication devices and the radio access network is determined. For example the guardian network application determines a usage pattern of the mobile communication devices using the radio access network provided by the base transceiver stations . The usage patterns may be articulated as means averages and standard deviations from the means or averages of usage and frequency of usage of different communication applications of the mobile communication devices . The usage patterns may be further defined as means averages and standard deviations from the means or averages of usage of operation modes of mobile communication devices .

At block the recent usage of at least part of the radio access network by at least some of the mobile communication devices is determined to differ from the usage pattern of the radio access network by an amount that exceeds a predetermined threshold. At block based on the abnormal recent usage a message is transmitted to one or more mobile communication devices via the base transceiver station where the message requests the one or more mobile communication devices to modify a communication activity of the one or more mobile communication devices . For example the message may request the mobile communication devices to pause use of the short message service communication application until further notice. In an embodiment the guardian network application may perform the method . The message may request the mobile communication devices to turn off one or more non trusted application and or turn off one or more communication application . For example the message may request the devices to discontinue sending short message service text messages and or multimedia message service messages.

In an embodiment the guardian network application may be able to localize the abnormal communication usage to a local area to a specific communication application to a specific non trusted application to a specific release or version of a specific communication application and or to a specific release or version of a specific non trusted application . In this case the message may be targeted to those devices associated with the subject local area subject communication application and or subject non trusted application . Additionally the guardian network application may be able to localize the abnormal communication usage to a specific model of mobile communication device and restrict the messages requesting modified communication activity to those subject mobile communication devices e.g. those mobile communication devices that happen to be that specific model of device .

Turning now to a method is described. At block messages are received from a first plurality of mobile communication devices via a radio access network for example via the base transceiver stations each message identifying an abnormal communication usage of one of the first plurality of mobile communication devices. The abnormal communication usage constitutes a recent communication usage of the subject devices that deviates more than a threshold amount from a mean or average communication usage of the subject device. It is to be noted that each of the first plurality of mobile communication devices may have determined different usage patterns for example different values of means and averages of communication usage based on the specific usage of each subject device. At block the received messages are analyzed by the guardian network application .

At block based on the analysis of the received messages the guardian network application transmits a message to each of a second plurality of mobile communication devices via the radio access network for example via the base transceiver stations wherein the message requests modification of communication activity of the second plurality of mobile communication devices and wherein at least some of the second plurality of mobile communication devices do not belong to the first plurality of mobile communication devices.

For example some of the mobile communication devices may have higher mean communication values defined due to the usage pattern of those users and a commonly distributed virus may be present on these devices too but the usage level on these devices does not yet exceed the relatively higher mean of those communication devices . Thus to some extent those mobile communication devices that happen to have low means or averages of communication usage may function to some extent as canaries in the mine when a software bug or a malware is introduced into a plurality of devices . These mobile communication devices may detect abnormal communication usage first report this abnormal usage to the guardian network application and the guardian network application may take precautionary and or remedial action before the other devices exceed their communication usage thresholds. In an embodiment in response to the messages received from the first plurality of mobile communication devices the guardian network application may send out messages to the second plurality of mobile devices requesting that they reduce their deviation thresholds at least temporarily.

The second plurality of mobile devices may share some characteristic with the first plurality of mobile devices that is relevant to wireless communication in the radio access network. The shared characteristic may be location in a common local area such as a specific metropolitan area. The shared characteristic may be a common model of mobile communication device. The shared characteristic may be a common revision or release number of a communication application or a non trusted application.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modern banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

