---

title: Two stage thermal modulator for gas chromatography with thermally matched grounding point
abstract: Disclosed herein are two stage thermal modulators that are useful in the separation of the components of an analyte sample in an analytical method, such as gas chromatography. In some embodiments, the thermal modulators described herein include a modulator column coupled to at least one ground point so as to define a plurality of stages that may be independently temperature modulated. In some cases, the modulator column (or stages thereof adjacent to a ground point) and the ground point are thermally matched, so as to limit or eliminate the formation of a temperature differential between the modulator column and a ground point.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08869592&OS=08869592&RS=08869592
owner: Southwest Research Institute
number: 08869592
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120125
---
This invention was made with government support under government grant number CHE 0650647 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Gas chromatography hereafter GC is a widely used method for the analysis of chemical compounds. It is used in a large number of applications including but not limited to forensics exhaust gas monitoring environmental analysis and industrial process monitoring.

In GC a sample of analyte vapor hereafter analyte is introduced typically with a carrier gas into a small capillary or column. The interior diameter of the column is coated with a thin film known as a stationary phase. The various components of the analyte have different affinities for the stationary phase and the carrier gas. As a result of the flow of carrier gas through the column the components of the analyte move through the column at different average rates and ideally separate from one another. As they exit the column the separated components of the analyte can be detected with a number of different detectors such as a flame ionization detector and or a mass spectrometer. Because the analyte is exposed to a column containing a single stationary phase this type of GC is often referred to as one dimensional GC hereafter 1D GC .

When an analyte contains a number of compounds that have similar affinity to a stationary phase separation of those compounds using 1D GC may be difficult or impossible. To address this issue two dimensional 2D GC or GC GC systems have been developed. In general 2D GC systems include two chromatography columns that are coupled in series. The interior diameter of each column is coated with a different stationary phase. In this way compounds having similar affinity e.g. boiling point and or polarity for the stationary phase of the first column may be separated due to their differing affinity orthogonality for the stationary phase of the second column. As a result compounds that would normally co elute in a 1D GC system can be separated using 2D GC.

Although 2D GC can enable the separation of a wide variety of compounds it is possible that bands of analyte compounds separated in the first column may co elute with bands of analyte compounds separated in the second column. As a result errors may be introduced into the analysis of the sample. To address this issue devices for trapping and accumulating analyte from the first column of the 2D GC while conducting analysis in the second column of the 2D GC have been proposed. In particular devices known as thermal modulators have been placed between the first column and the second column.

A basic diagram outlining the construction of a 2D GC incorporating a thermal modulator is shown in . As shown 2D GC includes first column including a first stationary phase and second column including a second stationary phase. First column and second column are coupled in series by thermal modulator . Carrier gas and analyte are injected into first column and separated components of the analyte exit second column . Upon exiting second column the separated compounds enter the inlet of a detector .

Thermal modulator includes a short segment of capillary hereafter referred to as a modulator column. The modulator column is rapidly cooled so as to trap the analyte leaving first column within the modulator column. For example the modulator column may be cooled to 40 C. for 1 10 seconds to accumulate trap analyte peaks from the first column. The modulator column may then be rapidly heated to a high temperature e.g. 100 300 C. to vaporize the trapped analyte and release it to second column . By repeatedly cycling i.e. thermally modulating the modulator column from between a low temperature and a high temperature pulses of analyte from first column are eluted into second column . Because only a single section of the modulator column is modulated modulator is referred to herein as a single stage thermal modulator. 

Put in other terms thermal modulator acts as an alternating trap and injector. That is thermal modulator continually traps focuses and re injects analyte at a user defined time constant throughout the analysis of a sample as described below. Because thermal modulator focuses the analyte peaks in a modulator column a 2D GC system can exhibit improved signal to noise relative to 1D GC system. As a result 2D GC instruments often can detect smaller quantities of components within an analyte than 1D GC instruments in addition to providing the separation benefits noted above.

To illustrate the performance of 2D GC relative to 1D GC reference is made to which plot the results of an analysis of the same sample by 1D GC and 2D GC . As shown significantly more peaks can be identified using 2D GC than 1D GC .

In order to achieve desirably narrow second dimension peak widths many commercial 2D GC instruments employ a cryogenic cooling system. In such systems cold focusing in the modulator is achieved by rapidly cooling and warming the modulator column as described above. Rapid cooling may be achieved for example by intermittently directing liquid nitrogen LN2 a cooled gas or liquid carbon dioxide onto the modulator column. In contrast rapid heating may be accomplished with a hot gas e.g. nitrogen jet. Although cooling and heating a modulator column in this manner is effective it requires the use of a large quantity of costly consumables. Moreover it limits the use of many 2D GC systems to the laboratory. As such many 2D GC systems cannot be employed as a portable instrument.

Investigation has been made into the development of a liquid cooled single stage thermal modulator in which the modulator column is cooled by a cold finger and an immersion cooler. While this technique eliminates the use of cryogens the size of the cold finger and immersion cooler still limit the portability of the instrument.

In addition to portability limitations many 2D GC instruments utilize single stage modulators such as described above. In these instruments the minimum peak width that the single stage thermal modulator can transfer to the second column may be limited. To permit the delivery of even narrower i.e. more focused peaks to the second column two stage thermal modulators have been proposed. Generally a two stage thermal modulator operates by independently heating and cooling two sections stages of a single modulator column. This technique allows peaks from the first column to be focused more tightly in the second stage of the modulator column prior to transfer to the second column of the 2D GC. As a result two stage modulators can produce narrower and higher peaks resulting in both improved separation and improved sensitivity relative to 1D GC or 2D GC systems employing a single stage thermal modulator.

Like single stage modulators investigation has been made into two stage thermal modulators that are liquid cooled. While such systems have shown some promise their performance is limited due to the size of the cooling system and the presence of a chilled region or spot between the two stages of the modulator column. This cold spot can hinder or even inhibit transfer of analyte peaks from the first stage to the second stage of the modulator and potentially to the second column of the instrument. Even if analyte passes through the modulator to the second column the cold spot can distort peak shape or give rise to other artifacts such as memory and bleed.

One aspect of the present disclosure relates to two stage thermal modulators that are useful in the separation of components of an analyte sample such as in a gas chromatography process. In non limiting embodiments the two stage thermal modulators include a housing having a cavity therein that is configured to contain a coolant. The two stage thermal modulators may further include a modulator column that is in thermal contact with the coolant thereby defining a chilled region. In such non limiting embodiments a ground point is coupled to the modulator column within the chilled region and is operable to connect the modulator column to electrical ground. At least one power supply is coupled to a first point and a second point along the modulator column. The power supply operates to resistively heat a first stage of the modulator column and a second stage of the modulator column. The first stage is defined between the first point and the ground point and the second stage is defined between the ground point and the second point.

In some embodiments the modulator column and the ground point are thermally matched. In such non limiting embodiments the thermal modulators include a ground point having an electrical resistance thermal mass and CSA that are the same as the corresponding properties of adjacent stages of a modulator column or which individually or collectively differ from the corresponding properties of such adjacent stages by an amount ranging from about 5 to about 5 such as from about 1 to about 1 or even about 0 .

Another aspect of the present disclosure relates to methods for temperature modulation in gas chromatography. In non limiting embodiments of such methods a sample is introduced into a modulator column of a two stage thermal modulator that is configured as described herein.

Yet another aspect of the present disclosure relates to modulator columns that are suitable for use in a two stage thermal modulator. In some embodiments the modulator column includes a ground point a first stage proximal to the ground point and a second stage distal to the ground point. When an electric current is passed through the first stage and the grounding point or the second stage and the grounding point the ground point exhibits a temperature that is less than about 5 different from the temperature of the first stage or the second stage respectively.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

In the context of multidimensional gas chromatography GC the terms column chromatography column and capillary are used interchangeably herein to refer to the columns that interface with a thermal modulator.

As used herein the term modulator column means a column forming part of a thermal modulator as described herein.

As used herein the term multidimensional gas chromatography means a gas chromatography system or method in which at least two columns with different stationary phases are used.

As used herein the term stage refers to a portion of a modulator column that may be heated and cooled independently of another portion of the modulator column. In some embodiments and as will be described in detail below the modulator columns described herein may be divided into multiple stages through the use of an electrical connection to ground i.e. a ground point. For example in embodiments wherein the modulator column may be resistively heated through the application of electric current a ground point may be employed to divide the modulator column into two stages i.e. a first stage between the ground point and a first point of contact of a power supply and a second stage between the ground point and a second point of contact of a power supply.

As discussed in the background thermal modulators having multiple stages have been developed but their performance is limited for a variety of reasons. For example conventional two stage thermal modulators often exhibit a temperature differential e.g. a cold spot at the interface between the first and second stages of the modulator column e.g. at a ground point. This can result in peak broadening measurement errors and other problems as noted above.

The inventors have discovered that the temperature differential issue in many conventional two stage modulators is attributable to the ground point used to define the first and second stage of the modulator column. Specifically the inventors have discovered that the ground point in conventional two stage thermal modulators heats and cools at a different rate than the adjacent first and second stages of the modulator column. Although the modulator column and the ground point may be exposed to the same heating and cooling forces during modulation differences in the mass and or properties of the ground point and modulator column can result in the aforementioned temperature difference.

Accordingly one aspect of the present disclosure relates to two stage thermal modulators that include at least one ground point that is thermally matched to adjacent stages of a modulator column thereby reducing or eliminating the aforementioned temperature difference between adjacent stages of a modulator column.

As used herein the term thermally matched when used in connection with a modulator column and a ground point means that at least one characteristic that affects the heating of the ground point and adjacent stages of the modulator column differ from one another by about 5 or less. The phrase adjacent stages of a modulator column refers to the portion of a modulator column that precedes or follows a ground point respectively and whose temperature may be independently set and or controlled.

To illustrate the concept of adjacent stages of a modulator column reference is made to . Generally illustrates the construction of non limiting example of a 2D GC apparatus including a two stage thermal modulator in accordance with the present disclosure. As shown 2D GC includes first and second chromatography columns connected in series via two stage thermal modulator . More specifically first and second chromatography columns and are connected to proximal and distal ends respectively of modulator column . Modulator column which may be resistively heated as described below is coupled to ground point which divides modulator column into first proximal stage and second distal stage . As shown first stage and second stage are adjacent to ground point . Thus first stage and second stage qualify as adjacent stages of a modulator column relative to ground point .

In some embodiments at least one characteristic that affects the heating of a ground point and the adjacent stages of a modulator column differ from one another by an amount ranging from about 5 to about 5 such as about 1 to about 1 or even about 0.5 to about 0.5 . In some embodiments two or more e.g. all of the characteristics of the ground point and adjacent stages of the modulator column that affect the heating thereof differ by an amount ranging from about 5 to about 5 such as about 1 to about 1 or even about 0.5 to about 0.5 . And in some instances one or more e.g. all of the properties affecting the heating of the ground point and adjacent stages of a modulator column are equal to one another.

The phrase characteristic that affects the heating of a ground point and adjacent stages of a modulator column is used herein to refer to properties that impact the rate at which the temperature of a ground point and or modulator column rises and falls in response to heating and cooling forces. Non limiting examples of such properties include the mass specific heat capacity thermal mass i.e. mass times specific heat capacity and cross sectional area CSA of a ground point and adjacent modulator column stages. In instances where the modulator columns of the present disclosure are heated by the application of an electric current electrical resistance is another characteristic affecting the heating of a ground point and adjacent stages of a modulator column.

Accordingly in some embodiments the two stage thermal modulators described herein are configured such that at least one of the CSA electrical resistance mass specific heat capacity and thermal mass of a ground point differs from the corresponding property of adjacent stages of a modulator column by about 5 or less about 1 or less or even about 0.5 or less. In some cases at least one of the CSA electrical resistance specific heat capacity and thermal mass of a ground point is equal to the corresponding property of the adjacent stages of a modulator column.

By way of example the two stage thermal modulators described herein may be configured such that the electrical resistance of a ground point equals the electrical resistance of surrounding modulator column stages or differs from such stages by about 5 or less about 1 or less or even about 0.5 or less. Likewise the two stage thermal modulators of the present disclosure may be configured such that the thermal mass of a ground point equals the thermal mass of surrounding modulator column stages or differs from such stages by about 5 or less about 1 or less or even about 0.5 or less. Similarly the two stage thermal modulators described herein may utilize a ground point having a CSA that equals the CSA of surrounding modulator column stages or differs from such stages by about 5 or less about 1 or less or even about 0.5 .

The two stage thermal modulators described herein may also be configured such that two or more the aforementioned properties of a ground point and adjacent stages of a modulator column are the same or differ from one another by about 5 or less about 1 or less or even about 0.5 or less. Thus for example the two stage thermal modulators of the present disclosure may include a ground point having an electrical resistance and thermal mass that are the same as the corresponding properties of adjacent stages of a modulator column or which individually or collectively differ from the corresponding properties of such adjacent stages by about 5 or less about 1 or less or about 0 or less. Likewise the two stage thermal modulators of the present disclosure may include a ground point having an electrical resistance and CSA that are the same as the corresponding properties of adjacent stages of a modulator column or which individually or collectively differ from the corresponding properties of such adjacent stages by about 5 or less about 1 or less or about 0 or less. And still further the two stage thermal modulators of the present disclosure may include a ground point having an electrical resistance and specific heat capacity that are the same as the corresponding properties of adjacent stages of a modulator column or which individually or collectively differ from the corresponding properties of such adjacent stages by about 5 or less about 1 or less or about 0 or less.

In some embodiments the two stage thermal modulators described herein include a ground point having an electrical resistance and a thermal mass that are equal to the corresponding properties of adjacent stages of a modulator column. In other non limiting embodiments the two stage thermal modulators described herein include a ground point having a thermal mass and a CSA that are equal to the corresponding properties of adjacent stages of a modulator column.

The two stage thermal modulators described herein may also be configured such that all of the aforementioned properties of a ground point and adjacent stages of a modulator column are the same or differ from one another by about 5 or less about 1 or less or about 0.5 or less. For example the thermal modulators of the present disclosure may include a ground point having an electrical resistance thermal mass and CSA that are the same as the corresponding properties of adjacent stages of a modulator column or which individually or collectively differ from the corresponding properties of such adjacent stages by about 5 or less about 1 or less or about 0 or less.

Put in other terms the thermal modulators described herein may be configured such that a modulator column or stages adjacent a ground point has a resistivity R1 a thermal mass TM1 and a cross sectional area CSA1 and a ground point has a resistivity R2 a thermal mass TM2 and a cross sectional area CSA2 wherein one two or all of the following relationships is true 

R2 differs from R1 by less than or equal to about 5 i.e. by an amount ranging from about 5 to about 5 

TM2 differs from TM1 by less than or equal to about 5 i.e. by an amount ranging from about 5 to about 5 and

CSA1 differs from CSA2 by less than or equal to about 5 i.e. by an amount ranging from about 5 to about 5 .

In some embodiments the thermal modulators described herein may be configured such that a modulator column or stages adjacent a ground point has a resistivity R1 a thermal mass TM1 and a cross sectional area CSA1 and a ground point has a resistivity R2 a thermal mass TM2 and a cross sectional area CSA2 wherein one two or all of the following relationships is true 

R2 differs from R1 by less than or equal to about 1 i.e. by an amount ranging from about 1 to about 1 

TM2 differs from TM1 by less than or equal to about 1 i.e. by an amount ranging from about 1 to about 1 and

CSA1 differs from CSA2 by less than or equal to about 1 i.e. by an amount ranging from about 1 to about 1 .

In further non limiting embodiments the thermal modulators described herein may be configured such that a modulator column or stages adjacent a ground point has a resistivity R1 a thermal mass TM1 and a cross sectional area CSA1 and a ground point has a resistivity R2 a thermal mass TM2 and a cross sectional area CSA2 wherein one two or all of the following relationships is true 

R2 differs from R1 by less than or equal to about 0.5 i.e. by an amount ranging from about 0.5 to about 0.5 

TM2 differs from TM1 by less than or equal to about 0.5 i.e. by an amount ranging from about 0.5 to about 0.5 and

CSA1 differs from CSA2 by less than or equal to about 0.5 i.e. by an amount ranging from about 0.5 to about 0.5 .

Finally the thermal modulators described herein may be configured such that a modulator column or stages adjacent a ground point has a resistivity R1 a thermal mass TM1 and a cross sectional area CSA1 and a ground point has a resistivity R2 a thermal mass TM2 and a cross sectional area CSA2 wherein one two or all of the following relationships is true 

For the purpose of clarity and brevity the present disclosure will now focus specifically on the construction and operation of an exemplary two stage thermal modulator in accordance with the present disclosure wherein a single ground point is used to divide a modulator column into two stages.

Reference is therefore made to which illustrate non limiting examples of a 2D GC including a two stage thermal modulator in accordance with the present disclosure. 2D GC includes first and second chromatography columns coupled in series via modulator column of two stage thermal modulator . At least a portion of modulator column is in thermal contact with a coolant thereby defining chilled region .

In the non limiting examples shown in coolant is a liquid coolant that surrounds a portion of modulator column to define chilled region . Thus depict a two stage thermal modulator in which direct liquid immersion is used to cool a portion of modulator column thereby defining chilled region .

While the present disclosure focuses on two stage thermal modulators that utilize a liquid coolant other types of coolants may be used. For example the systems and methods according to the present disclosure may utilize liquid solid and gaseous coolants and combinations thereof.

With further reference to first stage power supply and second stage power supply are generally configured to heat one or more portions of modulator column by the application of electric current. First and second stage power supplies may be coupled to modulator column at any suitable location for this purpose. In some embodiments and as shown in first stage power supply is coupled to modulator column at first point proximal to chilled region i.e. closer to first chromatography column and second stage power supply is coupled to modulator column at second point distal to chilled region i.e. closer to second chromatography column .

Regardless of the location of first point and second point first stage power supply and second stage power supply are also coupled to ground point . Consistent with the foregoing discussion ground point is coupled to modulator column and serves to provide a pathway to electrical ground. Ground point may provide this connection directly or indirectly. In the former case ground point provides an uninterrupted connection between modulator column and earth ground. In the latter case ground point may be coupled to another component of 2D GC or thermal modulator that is connected directly or indirectly to earth ground. For example in instances where two stage thermal modulator includes a grounded housing ground point may be connected e.g. via a set screw a weld or another suitable electrical connection to the housing.

Ground point may be coupled to modulator column at any position along a length L of chilled region . In some embodiments ground point is coupled to modulator column at a point that is greater or less than half way along the length L of chilled region . For example ground point may be coupled to modulator column at a point that is 10 40 of L such as 15 20 of L relative to an edge of chilled region . Thus if chilled region extends for 5 cm L 5 cm ground point may be coupled to modulator column at a point that is about 0.5 to about 2 cm about 10 40 of L away from an edge of chilled region . In a non limiting embodiment ground point is located at a point that is about 20 of L relative to an edge e.g. a distal edge of chilled region .

During the operation of dual stage thermal modulator first stage and second stage power supplies and heat modulator column by the application of electric current. Accordingly and as will be discussed later modulator column may be at least partially formed from a material that has an electrical resistance suitable for heating in this manner. For example the exterior wall of modulator column may be formed at least in part by an electrically resistive material. Because modulator column is not a perfect conductor i.e. has an electrical resistance power applied to modulator column by power supplies and will be dissipated in the form of heat. Thus upon application of electric current by power supply first stage of modulator column may be warmed. Likewise application of electric current by power supply may warm second stage of modulator column .

In this regard it is noted that the resistance R of modulator column or first and second stages and may be defined mathematically using equation 1 below 1 Where R is the resistance of the modulator column in Ohms is the resistivity of the modulator column in ohm meters L is the length of the modulator column in meters and A is the area of the modulator column that is available to carry current in square meters. The resistivity will vary with temperature but for small variations around room temperature the change in is approximately linear and may be described using equation 2 below 1 2 where is the resistivity at temperature T is the resistivity at room temperature Tis room temperature in Kelvin and T is the final temperature also in Kelvin . is the change in resistivity per unit temperature and may derived using equation 3 below 3 where and T T T.

The energy used to heat the column may be determined by the voltage V Volts and current I amps applied to the modulator column using the equation 4 below 4 where P is the power in watts joules per second . If a constant voltage supply is assumed and temperature changes are neglected substituting equation 1 into equation 4 yields equation 5 below 5 

The temperature rise in the column may be calculated using equation 6 below 6 where Q is the energy in joules c is the specific heat capacity of the modulator column in joules per kilogram Kelvin J kg K T is the temperature change in Kelvin and m is the mass in kilograms of the material being heated. Combining equations 5 and 6 yields equation 7 below 7 where t is the time in seconds that the current is applied to the modulator column. While this equation is simplistic and assumes that no heat is lost to the coolant it is useful for the purpose of illustrating the impact of various properties on the heating of the modulator column and ground points in a two stage thermal modulator. It is also noted that the product of the specific heat capacity c and the mass m is referred to herein as thermal mass. 

As noted above differences in temperature along modulator column can lead to several analytical problems including but not limited to peak broadening. To address this issue the present disclosure contemplates two stage thermal modulators wherein one or more of the aforementioned variables are maintained at the point of contact between the ground point and the modulator column. That is one or more of the aforementioned properties at or about the grounding point differ from corresponding properties of the modulator column by about 5 or less about 2.5 or less about 1 or less or even about 0.5 or less. In some embodiments one or more of the aforementioned properties at or about the grounding point is equal to the value of a corresponding property of the modulator column. For example the value of m L c and A at or about the point of contact between the ground point and the modulator column may be maintained within the previously recited ranges.

In some embodiments the ground point and modulator column are configured such they exhibit a substantially equivalent temperature in response to the same heating or cooling force. In this context substantially equivalent temperature means that the temperature in the region of the grounding point is less than about 5 different from the temperature of the modulator column e.g. the first and second stages when both the modulator column and the grounding point are exposed to the same heating or cooling force. While the previous discussion describes one manner of accomplishing this goal there are many mathematically possible combinations of m I c A CSA etc. that will result in a desired change in temperature T . In practice the selection of a material for the ground point will define the and c leaving m L and A to be adjusted as design parameters.

With further reference to if chilled region is considered alone i.e. a single stage modulator that does not include a grounding point A and c are constant throughout the entire length of the modulator column. As a result heating of the modulator column will be uniform along the entire length of the column meaning that the rise in temperature will be the same at all points. In the context of a two stage modulator however ground point is present between first stage and second stage . As a result current applied to the modulator column will pass along the column and through the grounding point thus increasing L. In addition grounding point increases the mass m that is being heated by the application of electric current. In practice selection of the material for the ground point sets parameters and c leaving m L and A as adjustable design parameters.

If the mass per unit length m L along the current pathway increases at the grounding point than the temperature rise in that region will be less than the temperature rise in first and second stages and respectively. As a result a cold spot may occur at or near ground point . Similarly if grounding point is made of a material having a different resistivity and or specific heat capacity c than the modulator column grounding point may experience a higher or lower temperature rise in response to an applied electric current relative to first and second stages and . Moreover if the of grounding point differs from the of first and second stages and it may only be possible to match the temperature of grounding point and modulator column at a single point which may limit the usefulness of the design. And finally if the area A of ground point differs from the area A of modulator column then a different temperature rise may occur at grounding point than at modulator column .

As noted above first stage and second stage power supplies and may apply electric current to modulator column at first point and second point respectively. Current applied at these points will return to ground or the respective power supply via ground point . As a result first stage power supply may heat first stage of modulator column independently of second stage . Likewise second stage power supply may heat second stage of modulator column independently of first stage . Of note is the fact that first stage generally extends between ground point and first point i.e. in a direction proximal to ground point . Conversely second stage extends between ground point and second point i.e. in a direction distal to ground point .

In the non limiting example shown in two stage thermal modulator includes a housing with a cavity formed therein. Housing further includes inlet and outlet ports . Coolant which may be a moving liquid flows into inlet port through cavity and out of outlet port . Upon exiting outlet port coolant may be redirected through the system e.g. as in a closed loop or discarded. The movement of coolant may be facilitated by known means such as by pump or a hydrostatic pressure device.

Coolant may be provided and or maintained at a desirably low temperature by mechanical or other means. For example and as shown in coolant may be provided or maintained at a desired temperature by chiller . Chiller may operate to supply or cool coolant at or to a desired temperature by any suitable means. For example chiller may be a mechanical device such as a thermoelectric cooler or a peltier cooler. In some embodiments chiller is a thermoelectric cooler such as a two stage thermoelectric cooler.

While depicts a non limiting embodiment wherein coolant is circulated by pump and chilled by chiller alternative methods of cooling modulator column are possible. For example the flow of coolant through housing is not required and modulator column may be cooled by immersion within a static coolant . In such embodiments pump would not be necessary and could be omitted. Moreover modulator column may be cooled by direct thermal contact with a cooled object e.g. housing a cold finger etc. or by contact with a chilled gas stream.

As further shown in Modulator column may be supported by housing and may be immersed in coolant within cavity . As such a chilled region may be established with cavity of housing . Two stage thermal modulator may further include septums which may permit modulator column to pass through cavity of housing without the leakage of coolant .

The systems and methods described herein may use a wide variety of coolants. As non limiting examples of such coolants mention is made of liquid coolants solid coolants gaseous coolants and combinations thereof. Non limiting examples of liquid coolants include liquefied gases such as liquid nitrogen and liquid helium. Non limiting examples of solid coolants include solidified gases such a solid carbon dioxide i.e. dry ice and metals alloys that are mechanically or otherwise cooled to a desirably low temperature. Non limiting examples of gaseous coolants include chilled gases such as chilled nitrogen and chilled carbon dioxide. In some embodiments the coolant is liquid nitrogen.

As noted above the modulator columns used in the present disclosure may be configured so as to include an exterior surface that is suitable for heating by the application of electric current. In such instances the modulator columns described herein may have an exterior surface that is at least partially formed from conductive but not perfectly conductive materials such as metals including oxides halides borides nitrides and carbides thereof alloys carbon e.g. graphite composites conductive polymers and other materials. As non limiting examples of materials that may be used to form at least a portion of the exterior of the modulator columns described herein mention is made of steel stainless steel and aluminum. In some embodiments the modulator columns described herein are at least partially formed from stainless steel such as 316 stainless steel.

Modulator columns of any length and any practical diameter can be used. For example the modulator columns described herein may have a length ranging from about 0.1 to about 20 cm such as about 1 to about 15 cm about 2 to about 10 cm or about 2 to about 5 cm. Similarly the modulator columns described herein may have a diameter ranging from about 10 m to about 2 mm such as about 30 to about 1 mm. Of course columns with a length that is longer shorter or within the aforementioned ranges may be used and are encompassed by the present disclosure.

The interior of the modulator columns described herein may be coated with any suitable material. In some embodiments the interior diameter of the modulator columns described herein is coated with a passivating layer of silica glass or another non reactive material. Alternatively or additionally the interior diameter of the modulator columns of the present disclosure may be coated with thin film of stationary phase such as a high molecular weight organic material e.g. a wax or polymer as a stationary phase.

As discussed previously differences in the properties of the ground point and a modulator column or the modulated sections thereof can give rise to complications such as peak broadening lack of sensitivity and other issues. To address these issues the thermal modulators of the present disclosure may utilize ground points that are thermally matched to adjacent stages of a modulator column.

Thus in some embodiments of the present disclosure at least one of the CSA electrical resistance specific heat capacity and thermal mass of the ground points described herein is selected or adjusted to a specific value relative to the value of corresponding properties of adjacent stages of a modulator column. For example the CSA electrical resistance specific heat capacity and thermal mass of the ground points including combinations thereof may be the same as corresponding properties of adjacent stages of a modulator column or may differ from such stages by about 5 to about 5 such as about 1 to about 1 or even about 0.5 to about 0.5 as previously described.

The ground points described herein may be made of any material that is suitable for providing a connection to electrical ground. Non limiting examples of such materials include metals such as copper stainless steel e.g. 316 stainless steel aluminum and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the ground points and modulator columns described herein are made of the same material. For example the modulator column and ground points described herein may each be formed from copper stainless steel e.g. 316 stainless steel and aluminum. By forming the modulator column and the ground point from the same material such components may exhibit many of the same or similar heating properties. For example by forming a ground point and a modulator column from the same material e.g. stainless steel such components may exhibit the electrical resistance resistivity and c. As a result if the modulator column and ground point are exposed to the same amount of current from a power supply they may exhibit the same or similar change in temperature in response to heating and cooling forces.

In some instances however using the same materials to form a ground point and a modulator column may be insufficient to thermally match the two components. That is even if a modulator column and a ground point are formed from the same material the rate at which they change temperature may vary based on a number of factors such as their thermal mass area A and CSA. Thus in some embodiments of the present disclosure the modulator columns or the modulated stages thereof and the ground points disclosed herein are formed from the same material and are structured such that they exhibit the same or substantially the same thermal mass A or CSA as previously described.

Although modulator columns may be custom designed i.e. their materials and dimensions changed it may be desirable to utilize one or more commercially available modulator columns in a two stage thermal modulator. Moreover it may be easier to make adjustments to the design of a ground point than it is to make adjustments to the design of a modulator column. With this in mind the ground points of the present disclosure may be of any design that is suitable for providing an electrical connection to ground.

For example the ground point may take the form of a knotted wire tied around a modulator column. This concept is shown in wherein ground point is formed by tying a half hitch knot around modulator column . More specifically ground point may be formed by tying one or more stands of wire around modulator column . In some embodiments the strand or strands forming the ground point have an electrical resistance that is the same as the electrical resistance of modulator column or which differs from the electrical resistance of the modulator column by about 5 or less about 1 or less or even about 0.5 or less. Close matching of the electrical resistance of the wire forming ground point and the electrical resistance of modulator column may be achieved by forming ground point out of a wire having the same composition as modulator column e.g. copper stainless steel etc. .

In some embodiments the wire strands have an area e.g. a CSA that is the same as the area of modulator column or which differs from the area of modulator column by about 5 or less about 1 or less or even about 0.5 or less. Close matching of the area of modulator column and the area of ground point may be achieved by selecting wire having an appropriate diameter to form ground point .

Also shown in is carrier washer . Carrier washer is connected to the ends of the wire forming ground point and couples the ground point to another component of the thermal modulator into which the modulator column and ground point are incorporated such as the housing shown in . For example the assembly shown in may be clamped within housing e.g. by a barrel nut or another fastener. In this way the barrel nut fastener can compress on washer completing an electrical connection between modulator column ground point washer and housing . Alternatively the knot may be secured to modulator column and or housing by another means such as by laser or e beam welding.

In one non limiting embodiment a ground point is formed by a half hitch knot of stainless steel wire tied around a stainless steel modulator column. This solution is not ideal however because the knot around the modulator column has a larger effective area than the column itself and adds mass to the area being heated. A lower temperature will therefore result at the contact point between the knot and the modulator column. However the difference in mass can be quite small meaning that the contact point may get warm enough during heating to transfer all of the analyte in the first stage of the modulator column to the second stage. However this may require running the two stage thermal modulator at an undesirably high temperature which could prove problematic in the analysis of thermally labile materials. Thus while the stainless steel wire may not be a perfect match for the stainless steel of the column not disclosed by the manufacturer but the variations in the relevant parameters and c is small enough to not affect the outcome.

The ground points described herein may also take the form of a plate. This concept is shown in wherein ground point is generally configured as a plate having holes and a central opening . In the non limiting example shown in central opening is sized such that a modulator column may fit through and contact the sides of central opening . In this way ground point can connect the modulator column to electrical ground either directly or indirectly as previously described. Moreover ground point may provide support for the modulator column passing through central opening .

Like the ground point knot described above compressive force or another connection means may be used to complete an electrical connection between modulator column ground point and housing of two stage thermal modulator . For example a ground point plate may be coupled to modulator column and housing by way of a barrel nut or other suitable connector e.g. as shown in described below . Moreover a ground point plate such as the one shown in may be welded e.g. by e beam or laser welding to modulator column housing or both.

As noted above it may be desirable to adjust the thermal mass of the ground point to approximate the thermal mass of a modulator column or surrounding stages of a modulator column. In this regard the thermal mass of a plate ground point such as the one depicted in may be adjusted by machining the plate to a desired thickness and or by cutting more or less holes in the plate. This concept is generally illustrated in wherein holes are cut into ground point . It should be understood of course that the particular design shown in is exemplary only and that other plate ground point designs may be used in accordance with the present disclosure.

As a non limiting example of two stage thermal modulator utilizing a ground point plate in accordance with the present disclosure reference is made to . provides a cross sectional view of multidimensional GC incorporating a two stage thermal modulator utilizing a ground point plate in accordance with the present disclosure. provides an exploded view of another non limiting example of the construction of a two stage thermal modulator column including a ground point plate. Both reference various components of a two stage thermal modulator that have been previously described in connection with respectively. Accordingly such components are not specifically described herein with respect to .

As shown in modulator column is disposed through an opening of ground point which is configured as a plate. Ground point is disposed within cavity of housing of two stage thermal modulator and has a CSA that closely approximates the CSA of the interior of cavity . As shown ground point is coupled to modulator column and housing by way of compression by barrel nut . Housing is grounded e.g. through a separate ground connection or connections at upper portion . As a result ground point provides a pathway to ground for electrical current applied across first stage and second stage by first and second stage power supplies respectively power supplies not shown .

As a non limiting example of a method of operating 2D GC and with reference to an analyte sample may be injected into first chromatography column . Within first chromatography column components of the analyte sample may be separated into bands based on the affinity of such components to the stationary phase of first chromatography column . The separated bands may then be input into modulator column .

As noted above at least a portion of modulator column may be cooled by coolant thereby forming chilled region . Modulator column within chilled region is divided into first and second stages by ground point . First stage and second stage power supplies may be independently turned on and off so as to independently heat stages and of modulator column .

Regardless of whether the ground point is in the form of a knot or a plate the contact point between the modulator column and the ground point preferably has the same area as the modulator column itself. In instances where the ground point is in the form of a plate and with reference to the desired width of the ground point plate may be derived as follows 8 2 9 Where Ais the cross sectional area of the modulator column ris the inner diameter of the modulator column ris the outer diameter of the modulator column Ais the area of the contact point between the modulator column and the ground point and t is the thickness of the contact patch of the ground point plate. If it is assumed that A A then solving for t yields equation 10 below 2 . 10 

In some embodiments the contact patch of the ground point plate is around the whole of the circumference of a column. In such instances a desired thickness of the ground point will correlate to t as derived in equation 10 above. In instances where the contact patch of the ground point is less than the whole circumference of the column then the thickness of the ground point plate would have to be increased accordingly to account of the lack of contact with certain portions of the column.

Other embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

