---

title: System and method for notifying users of an event using alerts
abstract: An alert engine module receives an alert for an event in a generic communications format and delivers an alert for the event to a target address in a communications format that is preferred by a user based on the alert content. The generic format can be an e-mail message, such as a Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) message. The alert engine can be operative to transform the alert based on a header and/or format of a target address.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08718702&OS=08718702&RS=08718702
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08718702
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120423
---
This application is a continuation of pending Ser. No. 12 778 284 filed May 12 2010 which in turn is a continuation of Ser. No. 11 554 318 filed Oct. 30 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 747 288 issued Jun. 29 2010 which in turn is a continuation of Ser. No. 10 780 423 filed Feb. 17 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 162 223 issued Jan. 9 2007 all of which are hereby incorporated herein in their entireties by reference.

The present invention relates to communications and electronic messaging and more particularly the present invention relates to a system and method for notifying a user of an event using an alert.

Users of electronic mail and messaging systems often want to be notified of an event which could be a notification that an e mail message has been received in a mailbox or be a notification regarding a telephone message stock quote notification or other notification regarding a received message. Sometimes a user may have a preferred medium or communications format for receiving the alert including an e mail Short Messaging Service SMS message a Wireless Application Protocol WAP message or other type of message to be delivered in a communications format that is preferred by the user at the destination or target address.

There have been a number of prior art proposals for solving these problems and providing alerts for events. For example sometimes an alert is delivered to a distribution engine in an output communications format desired by the user. This distribution engine however performs no transformation of an alert into a communications format desired by a user or destination address. Thus any alert must be input in the desired format. In yet another proposal the input format to an alert system can originate from a variety of sources and can be in the form Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP local files File Transfer Protocol FTP Structured Query Language SQL and other multiple formats. In this prior art proposal the alert system appears to have access to a user s personal information and settings but there is not transformation into a desired communications format.

U.S. published patent application no. 2002 0087643 provides a notification system and generates alerts. Messages are left for a user for example a voice mail an e mail or a CRM event. Different folders are maintained by messaging services. The notification system detects any additions to a user s folders and when a new message arrives the notification system sends an alert to a Wireless Access Protocol WAP enabled device e.g. cell phone configured for the user. The alert can include a number of messages of each type received for the user and an indication of a most recently received message. The notification system could monitor an information source for new information that may be of interest to the user and provide these as an alert notification when certain conditions are met.

In U.S. published patent application no. 2002 0129354 a series of templates allows a user to define events and information alerts to be triggered by the events. A knowledge switch uses event definitions and contacts and schedules information to detect events and distributes alerts to intended recipients when an event occurs.

Many of these prior art proposals identified above do not provide an alert to a user in a communications medium or protocol preferred by a user at the target address desired by the user whether e mail or mobile phone. For example different users could desire an alert in the form of an e mail SMS WAP or other communications protocol. Also it would be desirable if any alert engine that delivers an alert has access to a user profile in order to deliver this alert in a communications format preferred by the user.

The present invention advantageously allows a user to be notified of an event by means of an alert. The alert content is first received in an alert engine module in a generic communications format for example an e mail over the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP . The alert engine module transforms this alert and delivers the alert to an intended user at a target address in a communications format that is preferred by a user typically based on alert content.

In yet another aspect of the present invention the alert engine is operative to transform the alert based on a header and or format of a target address. The alert engine module could be operative to deliver the alert to an appropriate gateway in the preferred communications format. This target address could be a mobile device and the alert engine module could be operative for transforming the alert that is received by the alert engine module into a format based on the type of mobile device.

The communications format could be a short messaging service message which could be the default type of communications format or protocol. The communications format could also be a Wireless Application Protocol WAP message an e mail message an over the air OTA message or a pocket PC PPC message.

In yet another aspect of the present invention an input queue will queue a plurality of events typically all based on the generic communications format. The alert engine pulls alerts from the input queue and delivers each alert for a respective event to a target address in the preferred communications format. The target address of course could be an appropriate gateway. An output queue can queue alerts for delivery.

The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout and prime notation is used to indicate similar elements in alternative embodiments.

The present invention advantageously permits a user to be notified of an event by having an alert engine module receive a message alert for an event in a generic communications format such as over SMTP and transforming the alert into a communications format that is preferred by a user at a target address such as based on alert content. The alert is delivered to the target address such as through a gateway for that desired communications format. The present invention is advantageous over other prior art proposals that deliver alerts to a distribution engine in an output format without transformation. These prior art proposals typically mandate that the input format must be the format desired by a user. The present invention is also advantageous over other prior art proposals where an input format to a system could be from a variety of sources such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP local files File Transfer Protocol FTP and Structured Query Language SQL in multiple formats. In the present invention the alert system has access to any personal information of a user based on the output format for the alert.

The alert engine is shown generally at and includes an input queue an alert engine module and an output queue . Typically the alert is forwarded as a message to the alert engine over SMTP. The alert engine queues the alerts in the input queue . The alert engine module pulls each alert from the input queue and transforms the alert into the communications format desired by a user at a target address for example a user s mobile device such as a hand held Blackberry unit. The communications format could be but not limited to Short Message Service SMS Wireless Application Protocol WAP e mail pocket PC PPC which is typically over the air OTA . The desired format or protocol can be chosen based on certain headers and or the format at a target address. Typically the alert engine module is operative with the output queue such that successive alerts can be output for later delivery to a target address. As illustrated the target address could include a gateway as a server for the type of communications protocol desired. The gateway could be a single or multiple gateway for the illustrated SMS WAP E mail and PPC OTA as non limiting examples. The original message or event as sent over SMTP to the alert engine could have header information with details required for transforming the message and accessing the user device. POP proxy servers and other servers could be used. The output could vary and include corporate intranets or other intranets and internets.

In one aspect of the invention the SMS message is the default message that the alert engine module transforms. It should be understood that SMS is a wireless service and encompasses different embodiments for transmitting alphanumeric messages. SMS can be used in many different personal communications service PCS networks including TDMA CDMA and GSM systems. It can include a point to point system using a Shortened Message Service Center SMSC to store and forward short messages. Alerts can be received any time whether a voice or data call is in existence. It includes out of band packet delivery and low bandwidth message transfer.

The SMS network architecture could include a short messaging entity SME and a short message service center SMSC to relay and store and forward a short message. The SMS system could include a SMS gateway interworking mobile switching center SMS GMSC home location register HLR mobile switching center MSC visitor location register VLR base station system BSS and of course the mobile station MS . It can use a Mobile Application Part MAP layer and use an SS7 Transaction Capable Application Part TCAP . MAP operations could include a routing information request and point to point short message delivery and a short message waiting indication. The SMS system could also include a service center alert. Different services could include a mobile originated short message MO SM or a mobile terminated short message MT SM . Many different characters can be stored.

A Wireless Application Program WAP could define an application environment and communication protocol for wireless devices to communicate across the internet. Applications could be written in a wireless mark up language WML a subset of the extensive mark up language XML . The architecture could use a WAP datagram protocol WDP as a transport layer. A Wireless Transport Layer Security WTLS can add security. The WAP session protocol WSP layer could be a session layer and the HTTP interface retrieves WAP content.

As to the PPC pocket PC OTA over the air message communications for alerts the system can be used in conjunction with a short messaging service and allow transfer of small text files. OTA messages can be encrypted. There is an OMA open mobile alliance document on OTA provisioning of WAP clients as mobile devices. This specification is used initially to provision unconfigured WAP clients. In the present system it is possible to support this over the air provisioning of WAP clients. For example a user may provision access to an ISP corporate e mail mailbox in the present system. If the mobile device phone or PDA has a POP or IMAP client then it is possible for the user to access their ISB e mail using the system POP or IMAP proxy respectively. In order to accomplish this the user would have to type in the user ID password POP server name POP server port and whether to keep a copy on the server or not and other parameters in the POP client on their phone or PDA. This task of typing in parameters used in the phone keyboard would be very frustrating to the user.

The present invention would alleviate this problem by creating an OTA provisioning document containing a user s user ID password the system POP or IMAP proxy server s name port and other default parameters. This could be sent in an e mail to the alert engine. The alert engine would transform this e mail to suit the target device and deliver it to the gateway or server. When the gateway delivers this message to the target device it would configure the user s POP client with these parameters and the target device becomes operable. The user can now access their e mail without having to know and type in any of the parameters required to use the system POP server.

This message can be created and sent to the alert engine when the user provisions a new account or modifies their settings or deletes a provisioned mailbox. In the instance when the user modifies their settings the OTA provisional document modifies the settings on the device. In the instance when the user deletes a provisioned mailbox the OTA provisional document deletes the settings from the POP client on the device. Although the mechanism of provisioning a target device s e mail POP IMAP client over the air is targeted at PPC users it is possible to extend this to various mobile phones and devices that support the OMA OTA provisional specification.

It should be understood that the software and programming used for the present invention can vary and different applications can be used to accomplish the purpose and functions of the present invention. Many types of web service technology can be used including different application services used by those skilled in the art. Web services could include a combination of programming and data which are available from a web server for web users or the use of other web connected programs as provided by an application service provider. Web services could use an extensible mark up language XML as a standard for formatting data to be communicated.

Different communication arrangements could be used including peer to peer use of a central server or other architecture and communication systems including middleware. Data formats could be standardized and data exchanged using an extensive mark up language XML which is the foundation for the web services description language WSDL . Different web servers could also be used including the open source Apache or Microsoft s Internet Information Server IIS . Other web services could include Novell s web server for users of its netware operating system or the IBM family of Lotus Domino service for example for IBM s OS 390 and AS 400 customers.

Any web server could download requests for File Transfer Protocol FTP files. Different servers could include a Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI and provide an Application Programming Interface API . Configuration data objects and format data objects could be generated using an extensible mark up language XML for submission to various XML compliant web services. Any server and web service could be a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP compliant service. SOAP would allow one program running in one kind of operating system to communicate with a program in the same or another type of operating system by using HTTP and XML for information exchange.

ActiveX controls could be used as Component Object Models COM and provide a framework for building software components that communicate with each other. ActiveX controls could be automatically downloaded and executed by a web browser. Distributed object applications could be built in active web pages and ActiveX controls could be downloaded to different browsers and client. ActiveX controls could be held in a web browser as a container and distributed over an internet or corporate intranet. ActiveX controls could also manage and update web content and client systems and work closely with a user interface of a targeted operating system. JAVA objects or similar component objects could be used instead of ActiveX controls. An object model control could also be any type of Dynamic Link Library DLL module that runs in a container.

The alert is transformed into a communications format that is preferred at the target address block . The alert is delivered from the alert engine module through the output to a gateway server for a preferred communications format block . From the gateway the alert can be delivered to a user in a preferred communications format block .

The present invention advantageously permits a user to be notified of an event by means of an alert for example based on the alert content which is first received in an alert engine module in a generic format for example an e mail that comports with the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP . The alert engine module transforms the alert and delivers the alert to the intended user at a target address in a communications format that is preferred by the user based on alert content. The generic format could be an e mail message that comports with the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP .

An exemplary hand held mobile wireless communications device that can be used in the present invention is further described in the example below with reference to . The device includes a housing a keyboard and an output device . The output device shown is a display which is preferably a full graphic LCD. Other types of output devices may alternatively be utilized. A processing device is contained within the housing and is coupled between the keyboard and the display . The processing device controls the operation of the display as well as the overall operation of the mobile device in response to actuation of keys on the keyboard by the user.

The housing may be elongated vertically or may take on other sizes and shapes including clamshell housing structures . The keyboard may include a mode selection key or other hardware or software for switching between text entry and telephony entry.

In addition to the processing device other parts of the mobile device are shown schematically in . These include a communications subsystem a short range communications subsystem the keyboard and the display along with other input output devices and as well as memory devices and various other device subsystems . The mobile device is preferably a two way RF communications device having voice and data communications capabilities. In addition the mobile device preferably has the capability to communicate with other computer systems via the Internet.

Operating system software executed by the processing device is preferably stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory but may be stored in other types of memory devices such as a read only memory ROM or similar storage element. In addition system software specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the random access memory RAM . Communications signals received by the mobile device may also be stored in the RAM .

The processing device in addition to its operating system functions enables execution of software applications A N on the device . A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations such as data and voice communications A and B may be installed on the device during manufacture. In addition a personal information manager PIM application may be installed during manufacture. The PIM is preferably capable of organizing and managing data items such as e mail calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. The PIM application is also preferably capable of sending and receiving data items via a wireless network . Preferably the PIM data items are seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the device user s corresponding data items stored or associated with a host computer system. Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through the communications subsystem and possibly through the short range communications subsystem. The communications subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and one or more antennas and . In addition the communications subsystem also includes a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP and local oscillators LOs . The specific design and implementation of the communications subsystem is dependent upon the communications network in which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include a communications subsystem designed to operate with the Mobitex Data TAC or General Packet Radio Service GPRS mobile data communications networks and also designed to operate with any of a variety of voice communications networks such as AMPS TDMA CDMA PCS GSM etc. Other types of data and voice networks both separate and integrated may also be utilized with the mobile device .

Network access requirements vary depending upon the type of communication system. For example in the Mobitex and DataTAC networks mobile devices are registered on the network using a unique personal identification number or PIN associated with each device. In GPRS networks however network access is associated with a subscriber or user of a device. A GPRS device therefore requires a subscriber identity module commonly referred to as a SIM card in order to operate on a GPRS network.

When required network registration or activation procedures have been completed the mobile device may send and receive communications signals over the communication network . Signals received from the communications network by the antenna are routed to the receiver which provides for signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. and may also provide analog to digital conversion. Analog to digital conversion of the received signal allows the DSP to perform more complex communications functions such as demodulation and decoding. In a similar manner signals to be transmitted to the network are processed e.g. modulated and encoded by the DSP and are then provided to the transmitter for digital to analog conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the communication network or networks via the antenna .

In addition to processing communications signals the DSP provides for control of the receiver and the transmitter . For example gains applied to communications signals in the receiver and transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In a data communications mode a received signal such as a text message or web page download is processed by the communications subsystem and is input to the processing device . The received signal is then further processed by the processing device for an output to the display or alternatively to some other auxiliary I O device . A device user may also compose data items such as e mail messages using the keyboard and or some other auxiliary I O device such as a touchpad a rocker switch a thumb wheel or some other type of input device. The composed data items may then be transmitted over the communications network via the communications subsystem .

In a voice communications mode overall operation of the device is substantially similar to the data communications mode except that received signals are output to a speaker and signals for transmission are generated by a microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the device . In addition the display may also be utilized in voice communications mode for example to display the identity of a calling party the duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The short range communications subsystem enables communication between the mobile device and other proximate systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communications subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a Bluetooth communications module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

