---

title: Conducting financial transactions based on identification of individuals in an augmented reality environment
abstract: Embodiments of the invention are directed to methods and apparatuses for conducting financial transactions based on identification of individuals in an augmented reality environment. The method includes capturing a video stream using a mobile computing device; analyzing, using a computing device processor, the video stream to distinguish between individuals and objects; identifying an individual in the video stream; authenticating the identity of the individual; and conducting the transaction after the individual is authenticated. The method may also include presenting indicators associated with the user, the identified individual, or the financial transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08438110&OS=08438110&RS=08438110
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08438110
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120101
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 450 213 filed Mar. 8 2011 entitled Real Time Video Image Analysis Applications for Commerce Activity and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 508 764 filed Jul. 18 2011 entitled Conducting Financial Transactions based on Identification of Individuals in an Augmented Reality Environment the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Modern handheld mobile devices such as smart phones and the like combine multiple technologies to provide the user with a vast array of capabilities. For example many smart phones are equipped with significant processing power sophisticated multi tasking operating systems and high bandwidth Internet connection capabilities. Moreover such devices often have additional features that are becoming increasingly more common as standardized features. Such features include but are not limited to location determining devices such as Global Positioning System GPS devices sensor devices such as accelerometers and touch pads and high resolution video cameras.

As the hardware capabilities of such mobile devices have increased so to have the applications i.e. software that rely on the hardware advances. One such example of innovative software is a category known as augmented reality AR or more generally referred to as mediated reality. One such example of an AR presentation application platform is Layar available from Layar Amsterdam the Netherlands.

The Layar platform technology analyzes real time video data location data compass direction data and the like in combination with information related to the objects locations or the like in the video stream to create browse able hot spots or tags that are superimposed on the mobile device display resulting in an experience described as reality browsing .

In many circumstances it may be useful to be able to conduct transactions based on identification of individuals. Presently individuals are limited in their ability to authenticate the identity of other parties to transactions. Instead individuals assume that a person at a store is an employee of the store or that a person is who they claim to be. Further in many cases it is inconvenient to authenticate an individual s identity based on written documentation such as asking for identification. In addition it may be useful to be able to authenticate one s own identity without having to enter passwords or other manual identification procedures. Passwords can be forgotten or stolen and hence may not be secure. Authenticating transactions using known methods is inconvenient slow and insecure because passwords can be forgotten individuals can be deceptive about their identity and authenticating objects such as driver s licenses or ID s can be lost.

Presently one has to rely on memory and visual cues to identify individuals. Relying on memory and visual cues is limited by the person s memory and ability to perceive identifying features of an individual from a gathering of a number of people. Moreover if one is trying to identify individuals who the person does not know or identify individuals based on what the individual looked like many years ago a person s memory and reliance on visual cues may be insufficient to identify the intended person. Furthermore if a person is trying to identify individuals not based on familiarity with the individual but according to certain characteristics such as national origin demographic appearance of health intoxication etc. a person may be limited in his ability to identify such individuals absent additional information or specialized training.

Therefore a need exists to implement real time video analysis i.e. AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with conducting financial transaction based on identification of individuals.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments of the present invention in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Methods apparatus systems and computer program products are described herein that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with conducting financial transactions based on identification of individuals. Through the use of real time image object recognition facial features facial symmetry eye color bone structure hair color hair style body type unique identifiers clothing locations and other features that can be recognized in a real time video stream can be matched to images of individuals to assist the user with identifying one or more individuals. In specific embodiments reference images provided made available to the system by the user or used to identify the individuals and authenticate their identity. In another embodiment disclosed here the method utilizes financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institutions in providing information to mobile devices users in connection with real time video stream analysis. These embodiments are exemplary.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide a method wherein a mobile device is used to capture a real time video stream. A processor analyzes the real time video stream to distinguish which images present in the video stream are associated with individuals as opposed to objects. The processor then identifies the individuals based on comparison of the image in the real time video stream with reference images. If the processor determines that the individual is identified within a desired confidence level the processor authenticates the identity of the user and conducts the financial transactions. In some embodiments the mobile device also presents indicators in the real time video stream with one or more indicators associated with the user the identified individual or the financial transaction.

The user himself may be authenticated allowing the mobile device to replace passwords when conducting transactions or the user may authenticate the identity of other individuals such as merchants or store employees. In some embodiments the financial transaction is a purchase sale or transfer of funds e.g. a gift or charitable donation etc. . In some embodiments information is presented in accordance with the transaction such as the remaining balance in the account. Many types of indicators providing both information and potential actions can be presented in the user in accordance with some embodiments of the invention.

Consistent with certain embodiments of the invention identifying an individual from the image captured in the real time video stream involves collecting reference images that are available to the user and then comparing identifiable characteristics from the captured images with the reference images available to the user. If the comparison of the images suggests a match additional information about the individual is identified.

In some embodiments comparing identifiable characteristics from the captured images with the images available to the user involves modifying the images available to the user to adjust for changes that are likely to have occurred to the individual due to the passage of time.

In certain embodiments the images available to the user comprise images that are publicly available images that are available from social networking sites of which the user is a member and images stored on an accessible memory source.

Embodiments of the invention also provide an apparatus where the apparatus has a device for capturing a real time video stream a processor configured to determine which images from the real time video stream are associated with a person and a display for presenting the real time video stream with one or more indicators each indicator being associated with the user the identified individual or the financial transaction. In further embodiments the apparatus includes a position system device wherein the individual is identified at least in part on a location of the individual determined by the positioning system device.

In some embodiments of the invention the processor is further configured to identify an individual from the image captured in the real time video stream and compare the individual to reference images. In such embodiments the processor is also configured to correlate additional information collected to the individual identified in the real time video stream. The apparatus may include a networking device for receiving reference images. The apparatus may also include a microphone for receiving an audio recording and identify the individual at least in part from the audio recording.

In some embodiments of the invention in identifying an individual from the image captured in the real time video stream the processor is also configured to collect images available to the user compare identifiable characteristics from the captured images with the reference images available to the user and identify information about the individual if the comparison of the images suggests a match.

Embodiments of the invention also provide a computer program product comprising a non transitory computer readable medium having computer executable code stored thereon. In one embodiment the computer executable code includes a first code portion configured to capture via a mobile device a real time video stream a second code portion configured to analyze the real time video stream to distinguish between individuals and objects a third code portion configured to identify an individual in the real time video stream a fourth code portion configured to authenticate the individual in the real time video stream and a fifth code portion configured to conduct the financial transaction after the individual has been authenticated.

The computer program product may also include instructions for presenting information related to the individual such as financial information e.g. financial transactions between the user and the individual . The information may be presented in real time. In further embodiments the computer program product includes instructions for receiving input from the user such as via a touch sensitive screen. The computer program product may also receive information from social networking sites such as reference images of individuals associated with the user.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed may be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present invention or may be combined with yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like are herein disclosed that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR to facilitate financial transactions based on identification of individuals in the augmented reality environment.

The methods systems computers programs and the like disclosed herein use real time vision object recognition to identify facial features facial symmetry eye color bone structure hair color hair style body type unique identifiers clothing locations objects text and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream and can be matched to data associated with specific individuals to identify individuals. Once the individual is identified and the individual s identity is authenticated the financial transaction is conducted. In specific embodiments images made available by the user will be compared images captured in the real time video stream to identify a specific person or persons. In other embodiments indicators relating to the financial transaction the user or the authenticated individual will be presented to the user in the real time video stream. The indicators may merely provide information to the user or may allow the user to provide input in how to conduct the financial transaction.

While embodiments discussed herein are generally described with respect to real time video streams or real time video it will be appreciated that the video stream may be captured and stored for later viewing and analysis. Indeed in some embodiments video is recorded and stored on a mobile device and portions or the entirety of the video may be analyzed at a later time. The later analysis may be conducted on the mobile device or loaded onto a different device for analysis. The portions of the video that may be stored and analyzed may range from a single frame of video e.g. a screenshot to the entirety of the video. Additionally rather than video the user may opt to take a still picture of the environment to be analyzed immediately or at a later time. Embodiments in which real time video recorded video or still pictures are analyzed are contemplated herein.

The mobile device may generally include a processor communicably coupled to such devices as a memory user output devices user input devices a network interface a power source a clock or other timer an image capture device e.g. a camera a positioning system device e.g. a Global Positioning System or GPS device one or more integrated circuits etc.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more databases or data stores not shown in to search for and or retrieve information related to the object and or marker. In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more data stores local to the mobile device and or server and in other embodiments the mobile device and or server access data stores remote to the mobile device and or server. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access both a memory and or data store local to the mobile device and or server as well as a data store remote from the mobile device and or server

The processor and other processors described herein may generally include circuitry for implementing communication and or logic functions of the mobile device . For example the processor may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and or other support circuits. Control and signal processing functions of the mobile device may be allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The processor thus may also include the functionality to encode and interleave messages and data prior to modulation and transmission. The processor may additionally include an internal data modem. Further the processor may include functionality to operate one or more software programs or applications which may be stored in the memory . For example the processor may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a web browser application . The web browser application may then allow the mobile device to transmit and receive web content such as for example location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like.

The processor may also be capable of operating applications such as an AR presentation application . The AR presentation application may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory of the mobile device . Alternatively the AR presentation application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in the integrated circuit or operated directly from a website operably linked to the mobile device through the network interface . In embodiments where the AR presentation application is pre installed or run from a website the user may not need to download the AR presentation application from a server.

The memory may also include an object recognition application configured to identify objects in still shots or video. In an embodiment the object recognition application identifies diagnostic features of individuals or objects in the still shot or video and then compares the diagnostic features to a database of reference images using algorithms. The object recognition application may be stored on the mobile device or may communicate with a remote server via an object recognition interface in association with the network interface . The object recognition application may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory of the mobile device . Alternatively the object recognition application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in an integrated circuit. In such an embodiment the user may not need to download the object recognition application from a server.

In some embodiments the processor may also be capable of operating one or more applications such as one or more applications functioning as an artificial intelligence AI engine. The processor may recognize objects that it has identified in prior uses by way of the AI engine. In this way the processor may recognize specific objects and or classes of objects and store information related to the recognized objects in one or more memories and or databases discussed herein. Once the AI engine has thereby learned of an object and or class of objects the AI engine may run concurrently with and or collaborate with other modules or applications described herein to perform the various steps of the methods discussed. For example in some embodiments the AI engine recognizes an object that has been recognized before and stored by the AI engine. The AI engine may then communicate to another application or module of the mobile device and or server an indication that the object may be the same object previously recognized. In this regard the AI engine may provide a baseline or starting point from which to determine the nature of the object. In other embodiments the AI engine s recognition of an object is accepted as the final recognition of the object.

The integrated circuit may include the necessary circuitry to provide the object recognition and or AR functionality to the mobile device . Generally the integrated circuit will include data storage which may include data associated with the objects within a video stream that the object recognition application and or AR presentation application identifies as having certain marker s discussed in relation to . The integrated circuit and or data storage may be an integrated circuit a microprocessor a system on a chip a microcontroller or the like. As discussed above in one embodiment the integrated circuit may provide the functionality to the mobile device .

Of note while illustrates the integrated circuit as a separate and distinct element within the mobile device it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the object recognition functionality of the integrated circuit may be incorporated within other elements in the mobile device . For instance the functionality of the integrated circuit may be incorporated within the mobile device memory and or the processor . In a particular embodiment the functionality of the integrated circuit is incorporated in an element within the mobile device that provides object recognition capabilities to the mobile device . Moreover the functionality may be part of the firmware of the mobile device . Still further the integrated circuit functionality may be included in a removable storage device such as an SD card or the like.

The processor may be configured to use the network interface to communicate with one or more other devices on a network. In this regard the network interface may include an antenna operatively coupled to a transmitter and a receiver together a transceiver . The processor may be configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system of the wireless telephone network that may be part of the network. In this regard the mobile device may be configured to operate with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation communication protocols and or the like. For example the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and or IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and or time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like. The mobile device may also be configured to operate in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms such as via a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication data networks.

The network interface may also include an object recognition interface in order to allow a user to execute some or all of the above described processes with respect to the object recognition application and or the integrated circuit . The object recognition interface may have access to the hardware e.g. the transceiver and software previously described with respect to the network interface . Furthermore the object recognition interface may have the ability to connect to and communicate with an external object oriented data storage on a separate system within the network as means of recognizing the object s in the video stream.

As described above the mobile device may have a user interface that includes user output devices and or user input devices . The user output devices may include a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or the like and a speaker or other audio device which are operatively coupled to the processor . The user input devices which may allow the mobile device to receive data from a user may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile device to receive data from a user such as a keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad microphone mouse joystick stylus other pointer device button soft key and or other input device s .

The mobile device may further include a power source . Generally the power source is a device that supplies electrical energy to an electrical load. In one embodiment power source may convert a form of energy such as solar energy chemical energy mechanical energy etc. to electrical energy. Generally the power source in the mobile device may be a battery such as a lithium battery a nickel metal hydride battery or the like that is used for powering various circuits e.g. the transceiver circuit and other devices that are used to operate the mobile device . Alternatively the power source may be a power adapter that can connect a power supply from a power outlet to the mobile device . In such embodiments a power adapter may be classified as a power source in the mobile device.

The mobile device may also include a memory operatively coupled to the processor . As used herein memory may include any computer readable medium configured to store data code or other information. The memory may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The memory may also include non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively include an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like.

The memory may store any of a number of applications or programs which comprise computer executable instructions code executed by the processor to implement the functions of the mobile device described herein. For example the memory may include such applications as an object recognition application an augment reality AR presentation application described infra in relation to a web browser application a Short Message Service SMS application an electronic mail i.e. email application etc.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an AR experience in which a user utilizes the mobile device to capture a video stream that includes an environment is shown. As denoted earlier the mobile device may be any mobile communication device. The mobile device has the capability of capturing a video stream of the surrounding environment . The video capture may be by any means known in the art. In one particular embodiment the mobile device is a mobile telephone equipped with an image capture device capable of video capture.

The environment contains a number of objects . Some of such objects may include a marker identifiable to an object recognition application that is either executed on the mobile device or within the wireless network. A marker may be any type of marker that is a distinguishing feature that can be interpreted by the object recognition application to identify specific objects . For instance in identifying an individual a marker may be facial features facial symmetry eye color bone structure hair color hair style body type unique identifiers shapes ratio of size of one feature to another feature skin color height etc. In some embodiments the marker may be audio and the mobile device may be capable of utilizing audio recognition to identify words or the unique qualities of an individual s voice. The marker may be any size shape etc. Indeed in some embodiments the marker may be very small relative to the object such as a mole or birth mark on an individual s skin whereas in other embodiments the marker may be the entire object such as the unique height and proportion of the individual.

The marker may also be or include social network data such as data retrieved or communicated from the Internet such as tweets blog posts social networking site posts various types of messages and or the like. In other embodiments the marker is provided in addition to social network data as mentioned above. For example the mobile device may capture a video stream and or one or more still shots including a large group of people. In one example a person dressed as a popular character of a show and multiple people dressed as other characters of the show may be present. The mobile device may identify several social network indicators such as posts blogs tweets messages and or the like indicating the presence of the popular character in the group. In this way the mobile device may communicate information regarding the social media communications to the user and or use the information regarding the social media communications in conjunction with other methods of object recognition. For example the mobile device and or server performing recognition of the popular character may confirm that the object being identified is the popular character based on retrieved social media communications.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses one or more other servers social media networks applications and or the like in order to retrieve and or search for information useful in performing object recognition. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an application programming interface or API. In this regard the mobile device and or server may quickly search and or retrieve information from the other program without requiring additional authentication steps or other gateway steps.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more databases or datastores not shown to search for and or retrieve information related to the object and or marker. In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more datastores local to the mobile device and or server and in other embodiments the mobile device and or server access datastores remote to the mobile device and or server. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access both a memory and or datastore local to the mobile device and or server as well as a datastore remote from the mobile device and or server

In another embodiment the marker is a biometric marker associated with an individual. For example the biometric marker may be based on an iris scan palm print fingerprint or other type of biometric marker. In one embodiment the biometric marker is the user s own biometric marker and the user authenticates his identity using the computer implemented system and method. In another embodiment the biometric mark is another individual s biometric marker. Other individuals biometric markers may be made available to the computer implemented method by individual uploading said markers to a financial institution database social networking site or other publicly available location. For example small business owners may want to make it easy for customers to pay them and therefore upload their biometric markers to a public financial institution database.

In some embodiments the marker is not actually a physical feature associated with the individual. For instance the marker may be some type of identifiable feature such as objects logos artwork products text locations and other features that indicate that the object is nearby. In some embodiments the marker is an action or gesture performed by an individual. For example an individual may make a hand signal to identify himself. Use of hand signals or other gestures allows individuals to silently identify themselves or identify themselves in noisy situations. In some embodiments the marker for an object may actually be the marker for a different object . For example the mobile device may recognize a particular building as being Building A. Data stored in the object recognition data storage may indicate that Building B is located directly to the east and next to Building A. Thus markers for an object that are not located on or being broadcast by the object are generally based on fixed facts about the object e.g. Building B is next to Building A . However it is not a requirement that such a marker be such a fixed fact. The marker may be anything that enables the mobile device to interpret to a desired confidence level what the object is. For example the mobile device may capture a series of numbers on the fa ade of a building collect the user s position using the positioning system device and correlate that position and the numbers to being at a specific residential address owned by an individual stored in the user s address book in the memory of the mobile device . The mobile device may then use the web browser application and network interface to access the individual s profile on a social network through which the individual and the user are connected and determine that the individual is single and living away from his hometown and conclude that the person who answers the door at this address is the same individual. Accordingly the markers associated with the individual s house and other available information were sufficient to identify the individual without relying on the markers of the individual.

While illustrates that the objects with markers only include a single marker it will be appreciated that the object may have any number of markers with each equally capable of identifying the object . Similarly multiple markers may be identified by the mobile device such that the combination of the markers may be utilized to identify the object . For example consider a situation where the mobile device is confronted with identical twins and the mobile device utilizes facial recognition markers to identify the individuals as being the twins and utilizes a separate marker such as a wedding ring glasses a tattoo etc. to correctly differentiate between the twins.

In some embodiments a marker may be the location of the object . In such embodiments the mobile device may utilize Global Positioning System GPS hardware and or software or some other location determining mechanism to determine the location of the user and or the object . As noted above a location based marker could be utilized in conjunction with other non location based markers and recognized by the mobile device to identify the object . However in some embodiments a location based marker may be the only marker . For instance in such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user and a compass device or software to determine what direction the mobile device is facing in order to identify the object . In still further embodiments the mobile device does not utilize any GPS data in the identification. In such embodiments markers utilized to identify the object are not location based.

The object recognition application may use any type of means in order to identify desired objects . For instance the object recognition application may utilize one or more pattern recognition algorithms to analyze objects in the environment and compare with markers in data storage which may be contained within the mobile device such as within integrated circuit or externally on a separate system accessible via the connected network. For example the pattern recognition algorithms may include decision trees logistic regression Bayes classifiers support vector machines kernel estimation perceptrons clustering algorithms regression algorithms categorical sequence labeling algorithms real valued sequence labeling algorithms parsing algorithms general algorithms for predicting arbitrarily structured labels such as Bayesian networks and Markov random fields ensemble learning algorithms such as bootstrap aggregating boosting ensemble averaging combinations thereof and the like.

Upon identifying an object within the video stream in some embodiments the AR presentation application is configured to superimpose an indicator on the mobile device display . In an embodiment the indicator is generally a graphical representation that highlights or outlines the object and may be activatable i.e. include an embedded link such that the user may select the indicator and retrieve information related to the identified object. The indicator may be a tab or link displayed such that the user may select the indicator . In embodiments in which the indicator provides an interactive tab to the user the user may select the indicator by any conventional means e.g. keystroke touch voice command iris tracking or the like for interaction with the mobile device . For instance in some embodiments the user may utilize an input device such as a keyboard to highlight and select the indicator in order to retrieve the information. In a particular embodiment the mobile device display includes a touch screen that the user may employ to select the indicator utilizing the user s finger a stylus or the like. In yet other embodiments the indicator information related to the identified object may be visualized by the user without selecting the indicator . In some embodiments the indicator is not interactive and simply provides information to the user by superimposing the indicator on the display . For example in some instances it may be beneficial for the AR presentation application to merely identify an object e.g. just identify the object s name title give brief information about the object etc. rather than provide extensive detail that requires interaction with the indicator . The AR presentation application is capable of being tailored to a user s desired preferences.

Furthermore the indicator may be displayed at any size on the mobile device display . The indicator may be small enough that it is positioned on or next to the object being identified such that the object remains discernable behind the indicator . Additionally the indicator may be semi transparent or an outline of the object such that the object remains discernable behind or enclosed by the indicator. In other embodiments the indicator may be large enough to completely cover the object portrayed on the display . Indeed in some embodiments the indicator may cover a majority or the entirety of the mobile device display .

The user may opt to execute the object recognition application or the AR presentation application at any desired moment and begin video capture and analysis. However in some embodiments the object recognition application and or AR presentation application includes an always on feature in which the mobile device is continuously capturing video and analyzing the objects within the video stream. In such embodiments the AR presentation application may be configured to alert the user that a particular object has been identified. The user may set any number of user preferences to tailor the AR experience to their needs. For instance the user may opt to only be alerted if a certain particular object is identified. Additionally it will be appreciated that the always on feature in which video is continuously captured may consume the mobile device power source more quickly. Thus in some embodiments the always on feature may disengage if a determined event occurs such as low power source low levels of light for an extended period of time e.g. such as if the mobile device is in a user s pocket obstructing a clear view of the environment from the mobile device if the mobile device remains stationary thus receiving the same video stream for an extended period of time the user sets a certain time of day to disengage etc. Conversely if the always on feature is disengaged due to the occurrence of such an event the user may opt for the always on feature to re engage after the duration of the disengaging event e.g. power source is re charged light levels are increased etc. .

The indicator may relate to the identified object i.e. the identified individual. In another embodiment the indicator relates to the user of the mobile device or to the financial transaction that is being conducted. In an embodiment the indicator provides information to the user. The information may include any desired information associated with the selected object and may range from basic information to greatly detailed information. In some embodiments the indicator may provide the user with an internet hyperlink to further information on the object . The information may include for example all types of media such as text images clipart video clips movies or any other type of information desired. In a still further embodiment the indicator presents options to the user for controlling the financial transaction. For example the indicator may include a depiction of each bank account of the user and allow the user to select the account through which the financial transaction will occur. The indicator may also display various actions that can be taken regarding the transaction such as making a purchase making a return making a sale making a loan making a gift making a charitable contribution deposit money in an account transfer funds etc. all of which will be discussed in greater detail in blocks .

In some embodiments selecting the indicator will cause the AR presentation application to conduct a transaction such as a gift flowers a service etc. associated with the individual represented as an object associated with the indicator. In some instances the order functionality may be a part of the AR presentation application . In other embodiments the AR presentation application may access the user s accounts associated with a financial institution enabling the user to purchase an item associated with the object without having to input data such as a credit card number of billing address. In other embodiments when the user selects the indicator to purchase the product the AR presentation application will activate the web browser application to allow the user to purchase the product over the Internet from a website.

In some embodiments selecting the indicator will cause the computer implemented method to send a coupon or advertisement to the individual. For example a merchant may use the computer implemented method to identify her customers and then send discount coupons for a particular product or retailer to them. In another embodiment selecting the indicator allows the user to send reviews to the person selected. In one embodiment the user is able to immediately write reviews and then send them to the individual. For example a user may use the computer implemented system and method to identify an employee of a business and then write a review of that employee s service to the business. In a still further embodiment the user is able to identify individuals using the computer implemented system and method and then send gifts gift cards or make charitable donations in the individuals name after positively identifying the individual. Other embodiments of actions that may be taken after identifying individuals will be discussed in and

In yet other embodiments the AR presentation application may be provided with a wish list defined by automatic acceptance of items or actions on the wish list when the items are recognized into the real time video stream. In some embodiments specific predefined rules are defined in a rules engine such that when an item on the wish list is identified in the real time video stream and the offer for the item matches the predefined rules the AR presentation application will execute the purchase of and payment for the product on behalf of the user . For example a user may set up a wish list that instructs the computer implemented method to purchase a specific item if the item is on sale for less than twenty dollars. When that item is identified in the real time video stream and the price of the item is less than twenty dollars the item will automatically be purchased. Similarly a wish list action may be set up such that when an individual is identified in a real time video stream a transaction is automatically conducted with that individual. For example if a user owes an individual one hundred dollars the user can set up a rule using the computer implemented method that instructs the method to automatically transfer one hundred dollars to the individual when the individual is identified. This functionality allows the user to ensure that the debt is paid when the user next meets the person.

In some embodiments the indicator is not interactive and simply provides information to the user by superimposing the indicator onto the display . For example in some instances it may be beneficial for the AR presentation application to merely identify an object providing the object s name and giving brief information about the object such as name of the business loan balance from the business etc. rather than provide extensive detail that requires interaction with the indicator . The mobile device is capable of being tailored to a user s desired preferences.

In some embodiments the user may identify objects that the object recognition application does not identify and add the objects to the data storage with desired information in order to be identified and or displayed in the future. For instance the user may select an unidentified object and enter the individual s name and or any other desired information for the unidentified object . For instance if the user encounters an individual at a merchant that she would like the object recognition application to recall in a future video capture the user may record a video of the individual or capture a still picture of the individual and assign a indicator to the individual. In such embodiments object recognition application may detect record certain markers i.e. facial features bone structure etc. about the object so that the pattern recognition algorithm s or other identification means may detect the object in the future. Furthermore in cases where the object information is within the data storage but the object recognition application fails to identify the object e.g. one or more identifying characteristics or markers of the object has changed since it was added to the data storage or the marker simply was not identified the user may select the object and associate it with an object already stored in the data storage . In such cases the object recognition application may be capable of updating the markers e.g. changes to hair style hair color new tattoos etc. for the object in order to identify the object in future video streams.

In some embodiments the processor may also be capable of operating one or more applications such as one or more applications functioning as an artificial intelligence AI engine. The processor may recognize objects that it has identified in prior uses by way of the AI engine. In this way the processor may recognize specific objects and or classes of objects and store information related to the recognized objects in one or more memories and or databases discussed herein. In some embodiments an individual that is identified from a single frame in a real time video stream may contribute to the AI functionality using other frames in the video stream. Improvements may include multiple reference images available to the system and method such as an individual with and without facial hair or from different angles information on which social networks to search first when evaluating an individual perhaps based on location or other individuals identified in the same frame or distinguishing features between individuals such as means for distinguishing between brothers. Once the AI engine has thereby learned of an object and or class of objects the AI engine may run concurrently with and or collaborate with other modules or applications described herein to perform the various steps of the methods discussed. For example in some embodiments the AI engine recognizes an object that has been recognized before and stored by the AI engine. The AI engine may then communicate to another application or module of the mobile device and or server an indication that the object may be the same object previously recognized. In this regard the AI engine may provide a baseline or starting point from which to determine the nature of the object. In other embodiments the AI engine s recognition of an object is accepted as the final recognition of the object.

In addition in some embodiments the user may opt to edit the information or add to the information provided by the indicator . For instance the user may opt to include user specific information about a certain object such that the information may be displayed upon a future identification of the object . For instance the user may associate a phone number business references the place the user and the individual met etc. Conversely in some embodiments the user may opt to delete or hide an object from being identified and an indicator associated therewith being displayed on the mobile device display . For instance if an individual is one that is well known to the user the user may hide the object associated with the individual so as not to crowd the display .

In block the user makes reference images available to the mobile device. A reference image is an image associated with an individual. In an embodiment the user confirms that the reference image is of the individual. The user may upload a file of contacts including names and images of the contacts or the user may take a picture of an individual using the mobile device and then tag the photograph with the individual s name. In another embodiment the reference image is associated with the individual through publicly or privately available information. For example the computer implemented method may collect reference images from the user s social networking sites or a financial institution may include a private database of small business owner reference images. When the reference image is associated with the individual the computer implemented method confirms to a desired level that the image is of the individual. The computer implemented method may evaluate numerous images on a social networking site profile to confirm that an image is of the person operating the profile. The computer implemented method may confirm the image by comparing images secured from various locales e.g. a comparison of an image gathered from a work related website and an image gathered from an online dating site. In an embodiment the user makes the reference images available to the mobile device by saving the images to the mobile device entering log in information associated with social networking sites connecting the mobile device to public or private networks or any other means known to one skilled in the art.

In an exemplary embodiment the reference images are encrypted. While the reference images may be available to the computer implemented system and method the reference images are protected from public display so that should the mobile device be lost the reference images and associated identifying characteristics are not available. Encryption maintains the security of the system and prevents confidential or sensitive information relating to individuals from being made public.

In block the computer implemented method captures a real time video stream. As discussed previously the computer implemented method is discussed with respect to real time video streams but recorded video streams or still images can also be used to identify individuals and conduct transactions. In an exemplary embodiment the user operates a mobile device to capture the real time video stream in a camera cable of recording video. The video may be displayed concurrently in a display on the mobile device or the video may be streamed to another device for display. In another embodiment the real time video stream is always on or on until the battery reaches a pre determined level.

In block the computer implemented method analyzes the real time video stream. In some embodiments the method distinguishes between people and objects during the analysis of the real time video stream. The method may distinguish people based on analysis of faces. For example the method may conduct a proximity analysis of features such as eyes to determine that a part of the real time video stream is depicting a person. Other distinguishing features may also be used to separate individuals from other objects in the real time video stream. The method may also analyze the real time video stream to identify the location of the video the time of the video or other distinguishing characteristics of the real time video stream. As discussed previously these distinguishing features may be used to assist the computer implemented method in identifying the individual or individuals in the real time video stream.

In some embodiments not shown the computer implemented method analyzes still photographs or images of individuals available to the user rather than analyzing a real time video stream. The computer implemented method may review the images stored on the user s mobile device or available over a network such as available through the financial institution or through social networking sites. In an embodiment the computer implemented method analyzes the still photograph or image to identify individuals in the same manner as described herein for real time video streams. Once the computer implemented method identifies an individual from the still photograph or image the computer implemented method is capable of conducting a transaction based on the identification. In this manner the computer implemented method is able to conduct transactions even when the individual depicted in the image is not immediately available. In an exemplary embodiment the computer implemented method analyzes a still photograph identifies an individual within the photograph provides information relating to that individual or the proposed transaction and conducts the transaction. The type of information that can be presented to the user include the number of transactions between the user and the identified individual the total amount transferred the remaining balance after the proposed transfer the debt still owed the individual or other types of relational or transactional data. In some embodiments the information can be supplemented by the user. For example the user may enter the total amount of a loan from an individual into the computer implemented method. As the user pays off the loan to the individual the balance on the loan decreases and the balance is displayed as supplemental information in association with the individual s image.

In block the computer implemented method captures an image of an individual in the real time video stream. In an embodiment after analyzing the real time video stream to distinguish individuals from other objects in the real time video stream the computer implemented method captures an image of an individual in the real time video stream. The image may be extracted from the real time video stream or isolated in the real time video stream so that analysis can be performed the image. In an embodiment the computer implemented method captures an image of an individual in a frontal or facial view to assist in identifying the individual.

In block the computer implemented method compares the image to the reference images. The computer implemented method may use any type of means in order to compare the image to the reference images. For instance the computer implemented method may utilize one or more pattern recognition algorithms to analyze features in image and compare with markers in the reference images which may be contained within the mobile device such as within integrated circuit or externally on a separate system accessible via the connected network. For example the pattern recognition algorithms may include decision trees logistic regression Bayes classifiers support vector machines kernel estimation perceptrons clustering algorithms regression algorithms categorical sequence labeling algorithms real valued sequence labeling algorithms parsing algorithms general algorithms for predicting arbitrarily structured labels such as Bayesian networks and Markov random fields ensemble learning algorithms such as bootstrap aggregating boosting ensemble averaging combinations thereof and the like.

In block the computer implemented method determines if the individual is identified within a desired confidence level. The desired confidence level may be a pre determined or desired statistical confidence level that is calculated by the pattern recognition algorithm. The desired confidence level may be set by the user by individuals or by financial institutions. The pre determined confidence level may be with 99 confidence 95 confidence 90 confidence or any level of confidence desired by the user an individual being identified or a financial institution. For example a small business owner may upload a reference image to a financial institution server and allow individuals to pay the small business owner using the method described herein. The small business owner may desire that she is identified with a certain level of confidence such as 95 before allowing the method to transfer funds to her business.

In an embodiment different confidence levels are established before different actions may be taken by the computer implemented method. For example a financial institution may determine that a low confidence in the identification will allow the computer implemented method to display recent transaction with the individual in the real time video stream. Providing information such as recent transactions the balance in accounts the name of a business etc. does not risk conducting an erroneous transaction based on a false identification. If however the transaction that will be conducted involves transferring funds then the financial institution may determine that a higher confidence level is advisable. The financial institution may determine that to buy or sell an item using the computer implemented method or to transfer money to an individual or business as a loan or gift the confidence level in the identification must be higher than 95 for example. In another embodiment a low confidence level in the identification combined with a second factor confirms the individual s identity and allows the transaction to proceed. For example the system and method may identify an individual with only 60 confidence based on the comparison of the image in the real time video stream with a reference image but when that identification is combined with a second factor such as a password a location or a customer history record the transaction is allowed. A customer history record may mean that the user transfers money to the same individual the first of every month or transfers money to the same individual at the same location every time.

In some embodiments the system and method may use information stored with the image to create challenge questions that can be sent to the user to aid in authentication. For example social media data gathered may include various facts about the individual that could be used to ask challenge questions of the individual. Certain features about the person such as age height weight and or other bodily features may be provided to the user so that they may visually verify the person. For example an online profile may indicate that an individual is six feet four inches tall. To confirm the individual s identity the computer implemented method may ask the user if the individual is over six feet tall. An indicator may allow the user to respond yes or no and narrow down the possible identities of the individual. In another embodiment further information is provided about the individual and the user of the computer implemented method is prompted to ask the individual questions. For instance information on the individual s college home town or family may be available. The user may ask if the individual went to the college to determine if the identification is correct. Other like authentication procedures are envisioned.

In block if the computer implemented method determines the identity of the individual within the desired confidence level then the user s identity is authenticated. In an embodiment authentication means that the computer implemented method has confirmed the identity of the individual in the real time video stream with sufficient certainty to conduct transactions based on the identification. Authentication confirms to the user the financial institution and in some cases the identified individual that the individuals involved in the transaction are properly identified.

In an embodiment the user is authenticating the user s own identity. In this embodiment the computer implemented method allows the mobile device to act as a proxy for a password. In some embodiments the user desires to conduct a transaction using the mobile device. For example the user may wish to purchase something using a mobile wallet application on the mobile device. The mobile device is capable of transferring information related to the transaction to the payee but the identity of the payor i.e. the user of the mobile device is authenticated first. The user can capture an image of his face in a real time video stream recorded by the device and authorize the transaction based on identification and authentication of his identity. As discussed herein the computer implemented method compares his image in the real time video stream to a reference image available to the method and confirms the user s identity. It should be understood that authenticating the user s identity is not only possible for transactions between individuals or between an individual and a business. For example the user may authenticate his identity at an ATM or bank counter and then conduct a transaction through the mobile device.

In another embodiment the user authenticates his identity using the computer implemented method but conducts the transaction through a secondary channel. In this embodiment the user authenticates his identity using the mobile device but the transaction occurs through other channels such as internet portals standard payment procedures in stores or in person transactions. For example a user may be conducting an internet transaction wherein the user attempts to purchase an item from a website. The transaction is conducted through the website but when the user attempts to pay rather than entering payment information into a form on the website the user records an image of the user s own face in the user s mobile device. The mobile device then communicates with the network to authenticate the user s identity and approve the transaction. In an embodiment the mobile device wirelessly connects to the website and conducts the transaction. In another embodiment the user enters payment information into the website but the website requires approval from the financial institution before processing the transaction. In this embodiment the mobile device communicates with the financial institution server to approve the transaction once the user is authenticated.

In a still further embodiment the user identifies another individual in the real time video stream. For example the user may identify a merchant a friend a business partner etc. using the computer implemented method described herein. In one embodiment the individual is known to the user but in another embodiment the user and the individual are unknown to one another. Even if the user and the individual are unknown to one another the computer implemented method is capable of identifying the individual using publicly or privately available information. For example the mobile device may determine the location of the user when analyzing the real time video stream e.g. by using a built in GPS or by identifying a landmark in the video and then search for images of individuals associated with that location.

In an embodiment merchants such as small business owners make reference images of themselves and their employees available in a financial institution database. If a customer of the merchant desires to conduct a transaction the customer can use the computer implemented method to identify the merchant confirm the merchant s identity and conduct the transaction with the merchant. For example a user may want to purchase an item at a store. The user brings the item to an employee working in the store and captures an image of the employee on the user s mobile device. The computer implemented method confirms the identity of the employee and authenticates that the employee is authorized to sell the item based on the reference images made available by the merchant. If the employee is authenticated the computer implemented method conducts the transaction as will be discussed in greater detail in blocks and .

In block however the individual is not identified within the confidence level and thus in some embodiments the computer implemented method prompts the user to identify the individual. For example the method may prompt the user to enter information into the mobile device. It should be understood that the computer implemented method can prompt the user to identify the individual in many different ways. The method may send the user a text message an email or a phone call. The method may provide an indicator on the display asking the user to enter the individual s name or identifying information into the mobile device. Other means for prompting an individual through the mobile device are possible.

In block the user identifies the individual in the real time video stream. The user may confirm the highest probability individual presented to the user or select an individual from a list of possible individuals presented in the real time video stream. The user may enter the individual s name in the mobile device select the individual from a variety of individuals suggested by the mobile device indicate avenues to pursue in investigating the individual or other means of providing said input to the computer implemented method. For example the user may not know an individual captured in a real time video screen but may be aware that the individual is an employee of a specific company. The user may provide that information in response to the prompt and then the computer implemented method will search for reference images related to that company for assistance in identifying the individual. In some embodiments the mobile device continues to prompt the user for identifying information such as location business first or last name age or other identifying characteristics until the individual is identified with the desired confidence level or the user cancels the attempt at identification.

Turning to block once an individual is authenticated the computer implemented method sends the authentication to the financial institution server. In an embodiment the transaction is conducted with no further action on the part of the user. Instead the financial institution server determines that the user s identity is authenticated and completes the transaction. In some embodiments the merchant sends a transfer request to the financial institution server and the transfer request e.g. a purchase is approved once the individual s identity is authenticated. Thus in block the transaction is completed based on identification of the individual in the augmented reality environment.

In some embodiments however the computer implemented method presents an indicator to the user as represented in block . As discussed the indicator may relate to the user to the individual or to the financial transaction. In some embodiments the indicator relates to the financial status of the user. For example the indicator may display the balance in the user s account or the remaining balance in the user s account if the transaction is conducted. In another embodiment the indicator relates to a budget that the user has established with the bank and the status of the budget based on the transaction. In still further embodiments the indicator depicts the number of transactions that the user has conducted with the identified individual or the number of transaction that the user has conducted in a category of transactions similar to the individual. For example a user may capture an image of the user s babysitter in a real time video stream in order to pay the babysitter. The user also sees superimposed on the image of the babysitter a history of previous payments made to the babysitter. In another embodiment the indicator relates to the individual being identified. For example the indicator may display information relating to the merchant such as sales discounts or the like. In a still further embodiment the indicator relates to the financial transaction. For example the indicator may convert the transaction from one currency to another currency so that the user may better understand the terms of the transaction.

In an embodiment the indicator presented in the real time video stream provides more than just information. In some embodiments the indicator allows the user to provide input on how to conduct the financial transaction such as selecting an account for the transaction making a purchase making a return making a sale making a loan making a gift making a charitable contribution depositing money in an account transferring funds etc.

In some embodiments the indicator allows the user to select an account to use for the transaction. For example names or categories of accounts may be displayed in the real time video stream e.g. a credit card icon a checking account icon and a gift card icon may be displayed over an employee at a store and allow the user to pay for a purchase from the employee using each of the accounts. The user would select the account from which the funds are being debited and then the transaction would be completed in accordance with the user s instructions.

In some embodiments the indicator allows a user to make a transfer of funds after identifying an individual in the real time video stream. The transfer may be a purchase a sale a loan or another type of transaction where funds are transferred by the user. For example a purchase now icon or other depiction that indicates the user desires to conduct a purchase can be displayed on the real time video stream. Given the variety of actions that can be taken in response to a transaction innumerable commands can be displayed as indicators in association with an identified individual. It should be understood that commands such as sell donate loan borrow or other financial transaction commands can be displayed in the real time video stream and facilitate transactions with identified individuals.

Furthermore in some instances an object may include one or more markers identified by the object recognition application that leads the object recognition application to associate an object with more than one objects in the data storage. In such instances the user may be presented with multiple candidate identifications and may opt to choose the appropriate identification or input a different identification. The multiple candidates may be presented to the user by any means. For instance in one embodiment the candidates are presented to the user as a list wherein the strongest candidate is listed first based on reliability of the identification. Upon input by the user identifying the object the object recognition application may learn from the input and store additional markers in order to avoid multiple identification candidates for the same object in future identifications.

Additionally the object recognition application may utilize other metrics for identification than identification algorithms. For instance the object recognition application may utilize the user s location time of day season weather speed of location changes e.g. walking versus traveling busyness e.g. how many objects are in motion versus stationary in the video stream as well any number of other conceivable factors in determining the identification of objects. Moreover the user may input preferences or other metrics for which the object recognition application may utilize to narrow results of identified objects.

In some embodiments the AR presentation application may have the ability to gather and report user interactions with displayed indicators. The data elements gathered and reported may include but are not limited to number of offer impressions time spent viewing an offer product object or business number of offers investigated via a selection number of offers loaded to an electronic wallet and the like. Such user interactions may be reported to any type of entity desired. In one particular embodiment the user interactions may be reported to a financial institution and the information reported may include customer financial behavior purchase power transaction history and the like.

In various embodiments information associated with or related to one or more objects that is retrieved for presentation to a user via the mobile device may be permanently or semi permanently associated with the object. In other words the object may be tagged with the information. In some embodiments a location pointer is associated with an object after information is retrieved regarding the object. In this regard subsequent mobile devices capturing the object for recognition may retrieve the associated information tags and or pointers in order to more quickly retrieve information regarding the object. In some embodiments the mobile device provides the user an opportunity to post messages links to information or the like and associate such postings with the object. Subsequent users may then be presenting such postings when their mobile devices capture and recognize an object. In some embodiments the information gathered through the recognition and information retrieval process may be posted by the user in association with the object. Such tags and or postings may be stored in a predetermined memory and or database for ease of searching and retrieval.

Turning now to block the user provides input in response to the indicator. As discussed the user may provide input to the method in a variety of manners. For example the user may select an indicator using a touch sensitive display. Optionally the user may use a keyboard or other input device to provide input. In some embodiments the method is capable of receiving voice commands when the user speaks into a receiver on the mobile device. It should be understood that generic commands such as cancel or stop are also possible.

In block the computer implemented method receives input from the user. The method may analyze the input using the processor and determine the appropriate response. For example if the user selects the purchase indicator associated with the authenticated individual the computer implemented method will approve a pending transaction from that individual through the financial institution s server as depicted in blocks and so that the transaction can be completed.

In block the computer implemented method conducts the financial transaction according to the user input. The method may approve a purchase of a product or approve the transfer of funds as part of a gift or charitable donation. In some embodiments the method sends this approval to the financial institution server which thereafter authorizes the transaction.

It should be understood that every step does not need to occur in the order described herein or even need to occur at all. Different steps in the computer implemented method can be skipped or moved around and still accomplish the goal of conducting financial transactions based on identification of individuals. For example the method can display indicators next to individuals before identifying the individuals. In this example the indicator may relate to the user of the financial transaction such as the balance in the user s checking account that will be used for any purchases. The steps disclosed herein are not limiting to the exact order discussed.

Turning now to a screenshot of a real time video stream depicting identified individuals and indicators associated with those individuals is provided in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In the screenshot an individual is depicted surrounded by indicators . At this stage in the computer implemented method the individual has been identified and authenticated based on comparison to a reference image. In some embodiments information pertaining to the individual is presented. For example the name of the individual s employer may be presented to the user. In further embodiments the user is able to select an account from which the transaction will occur. For example the user may select from a checking account or a credit card . This allows the user to select the account in which the transaction whether it is a purchase a deposit or a transfer etc. will occur. In a still further embodiment indicators providing actions relating to the financial transaction may also be presented. For example once the individual is authenticated the user may have the option to purchase something from the individual or the individual s employer . In another example the user may have the option to make a charitable donation to the individual or the individual s employer . In one embodiment the user interacts with the indicators by selecting them on a touchscreen scroll wheel or other interactive device.

The systems methods computer program products etc. described herein may be utilized or combined with any other suitable AR related application. Non limiting examples of other suitable AR related applications include those described in the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference 

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

