---

title: Managing voice collision in multi-party communications
abstract: Systems and methods for managing voice collision in multi-party communications are generally provided. Embodiments herein may include identifying a voice collision between a first speaker and a second speaker in a multi-party call. One or more voice collision rules may be received. One of the first speaker and the second speaker to be determined to be a priority speaker based upon, at least in part, the one or more voice collision rules. Call bandwidth may be allocated to the priority speaker.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08929529&OS=08929529&RS=08929529
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08929529
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120629
---
The present disclosure generally relates to electronic communication systems and more particularly to managing voice collision in multi party communications.

Individuals in large organizations may often be located in multiple geographic regions. Various collaboration and communication systems may be used for interactions between individuals in different regions. Such communications systems may include unified telephony systems Voice over IP systems video conferencing systems and the like. Such communications systems may allow individuals to collaborate and work together on projects and the like even though the individuals may be in geographically dispersed locations.

In one implementation a method may include identifying a voice collision between a first speaker and a second speaker in a multi party call. The method may also include receiving one or more voice collision rules. The method may also include determining one of the first speaker and the second speaker to be a priority speaker based upon at least in part the one or more voice collision rules. The method may further include allocating call bandwidth to the priority speaker.

One or more of the following features may be included. The method may further include determining an identity of the first speaker and an identity of the second speaker. The one or more voice collision rules may be based on at least in part an organizational structure. The one or more voice collision rules may be based on at least in part speaker subject matter knowledge. The method may further include determining a topic associated with the multi party call. The one or more voice collision rules may be based on a speaker history.

Determining one of the first speaker and the second speaker as a priority speaker may include determining one of the first speaker and the second speaker as a priority speaker for a first call participant subset. Allocating call bandwidth to the priority speaker may include allocating call bandwidth to the priority speaker for the first call participant subset.

In another implementation a computer program product may include a non transitory computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored on it. When executed by a processor the instructions may cause the processor to perform operations including identifying a voice collision between a first speaker and a second speaker in a multi party call. Instructions may also be included for receiving one or more voice collision rules. Instructions may also be included for determining one of the first speaker and the second speaker to be a priority speaker based upon at least in part the one or more voice collision rules. Instructions may further be included for allocating call bandwidth to the priority speaker.

One or more of the following features may be included. Instructions may also be included for determining an identity of the first speaker and an identity of the second speaker. The one or more voice collision rules may be based on at least in part an organizational structure. The one or more voice collision rules may be based on at least in part speaker subject matter knowledge. Instructions may also be included for determining a topic associated with the multi party call. The one or more voice collision rules may be based on a speaker history.

The instructions for determining one of the first speaker and the second speaker as a priority speaker may include instructions for determining one of the first speaker and the second speaker as a priority speaker for a first call participant subset. The instructions for allocating call bandwidth to the priority speaker may include instructions for allocating call bandwidth to the priority speaker for the first call participant subset.

According to yet another implementation a computing system may include one or more processors. The one or more processors may be configured to identify a voice collision between a first speaker and a second speaker in a multi party call. The one or more processors may also be configured to receive one or more voice collision rules. The one or more processors may also be configured to determine one of the first speaker and the second speaker to be a priority speaker based upon at least in part the one or more voice collision rules. The one or more processors may be further configured to allocate call bandwidth to the priority speaker.

One or more of the following features may be included. The one or more processors may be further configured to determine an identity of the first speaker and an identity of the second speaker. The one or more voice collision rules may be based on at least in part an organizational structure. The one or more voice collision rules may be based on at least in part speaker subject matter knowledge. The one or more processors may be further configured to determine a topic associated with the multi party call. The one or more voice collision rules may be based on a speaker history.

The one or more processors configured to determine one of the first speaker and the second speaker as a priority speaker may be configured to determine one of the first speaker and the second speaker as a priority speaker for a first call participant subset. The one or more processors configured to allocate call bandwidth to the priority speaker may be configured to allocate call bandwidth to the priority speaker for the first call participant subset.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium also herein referred to as a computer readable medium and or a storage device associated with a computing device or client electronic device may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any non transitory medium that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages and or in scripting languages such as JavaScript programming language or the Groovy programming language. Furthermore various application programming interfaces APIs and or application development frameworks such as the Dojo or Grails development frameworks may be used in writing the computer program. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Referring to there is shown collision process that may reside on and may be executed by server computer which may be connected to network e.g. the Internet or a local area network . Examples of server computer may include but are not limited to a personal computer a server computer a series of server computers a mini computer and a mainframe computer. Server computer may be a web server or a series of servers running a network operating system examples of which may include but are not limited to Microsoft Windows Server Novell NetWare or Red Hat Linux for example. Microsoft and Windows are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both Novell and NetWare are registered trademarks of Novell Corporation in the United States other countries or both Red Hat is a registered trademark of Red Hat Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States other countries or both. 

As will be described in greater detail below according to an example embodiment collision process may identify a voice collision between a first speaker and a second speaker in a multi party call. Collision process may also receive one or more voice collision rules. Collision process may also determine one of the first speaker and the second speaker to be a priority speaker based upon at least in part the one or more voice collision rules. Collision process may further allocate call bandwidth to the priority speaker.

The instruction sets and subroutines of collision process which may include one or more software modules and which may be stored on storage device coupled to server computer may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory modules not shown incorporated into server computer . Storage device may include but is not limited to a hard disk drive a solid state drive a tape drive an optical drive a RAID array a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM .

Server computer may execute a web server application examples of which may include but are not limited to Microsoft IIS Novell Webserver or Apache HTTP Server Apache Tomcat application server that allows for access to server computer e.g. via network using one or more protocols examples of which may include but are not limited to HTTP i.e. HyperText Transfer Protocol SIP i.e. session initiation protocol and the Lotus Sametime VP protocol or other suitable protocol. Webserver is a trademark of Novell Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Apache and Tomcat are registered trademarks of Apache Software Foundation in the United States other countries or both Lotus and Sametime are registered trademarks of International Business Machine Corporation in the United States other countries or both . Network may be connected to one or more secondary networks e.g. network examples of which may include but are not limited to a local area network a wide area network or an intranet for example.

Server computer may execute communication application e.g. communication application examples of which may include but are not limited to a unified telephony application e.g. Lotus Sametime Unified Telephony Lotus and Sametime are both trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation in the United States other countries or both a Voice over IP communication system a video conferencing system a PBX system and or another communication system that may provided communications between at least two parties in which the communication may include an audio or voice component. The instruction sets and subroutines of communication application may be stored on storage device coupled to server computer and may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory architectures not shown incorporated into server computer . Communication application may allow for audio and or audio video communications between client applications e.g. client applications in which the communication may include an audio and or voice component. Accordingly in an example embodiment communication application may facilitate communications between two or more participants to communicate using a variety of devices for example cellular phones fixed line phones and or computers or computing devices. Examples of client applications may include but are not limited to a unified telephony application e.g. Lotus Sametime a Voice over IP application a video conferencing application a web browser and or another general purpose application and or special purpose communication application that may allow for communication between two or more participants.

Collision process may interface and or interact with communication application and or may be a module or component of communication application . In addition as an alternative to being a server side process the collision process may be a client side process not shown that may reside on a client electronic device described below and may interact with and or may be a module or component of a client application e.g. one or more of client applications . Further the collision process may be a hybrid server side client side process that may interact with server side communication application and a client application e.g. one or more of client applications . As such the collision process may reside in whole or in part on server computer and or one or more client electronic devices.

The instruction sets and subroutines of client applications which may be stored on storage devices respectively coupled to client electronic devices respectively may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory modules not shown incorporated into client electronic devices respectively . Storage devices may include but are not limited to hard disk drives solid state drives tape drives optical drives RAID arrays random access memories RAM read only memories ROM compact flash CF storage devices secure digital SD storage devices and a memory stick storage devices. Examples of client electronic devices may include but are not limited to personal computer laptop computer mobile computing device such as a smart phone netbook tablet computer or the like notebook computer for example. Each of client electronic devices may execute an appropriate operating system for example Mac OS iOS Android OS Windows or other suitable operating system. Mac OS is a trademark of Apple Inc. in the United States other countries or both iOS is a trademark of Cisco Systems Inc. Android is a trademark of Google Inc. in the United States other countries or both Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United Sates other countries or both. 

Using client applications users may access collision process and may e.g. manage voice collisions in multi party communications. Users may access collision process directly through the device on which the client application e.g. client applications is executed namely client electronic devices for example. Users may access collision process directly through network or through secondary network . Further server computer i.e. the computer that executes collision process may be connected to network through secondary network as illustrated with phantom link line .

The various client electronic devices may be directly or indirectly coupled to network or network . For example personal computer is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Further notebook computer is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Laptop computer is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between laptop computer and wireless access point i.e. WAP which is shown directly coupled to network . WAP may be for example an IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g Wi Fi and or Bluetooth device that is capable of establishing wireless communication channel between laptop computer and WAP . Mobile computing device is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between mobile computing device and cellular network bridge which is shown directly coupled to network .

As is known in the art all of the IEEE 802.11x specifications may use Ethernet protocol and carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance i.e. CSMA CA for path sharing. The various 802.11x specifications may use phase shift keying i.e. PSK modulation or complementary code keying i.e. CCK modulation for example. As is known in the art Bluetooth is a telecommunications industry specification that allows e.g. mobile phones computers and personal digital assistants to be interconnected using a short range wireless connection.

Referring also to according to one aspect collision process may identify a voice collision between a first speaker and a second speaker in a multi party call. Collision process may also receive one or more voice collision rules. Collision process may also determine one of the first speaker and the second speaker to be a priority speaker based upon at least in part the one or more voice collision rules. Collision process may further allocate call bandwidth to the priority speaker.

For example during a multi party call such as a conference call more than one individual participating in the call may speak at the same time giving rise to voice collision between a first speaker and a second speaker and or additional individuals speaking at the same time . In such a situation the various individuals speaking at the same time may make it difficult for other participants of the call to understand any of the individuals speaking and or one of individuals speaking may be heard by other participants of the call while another of the individuals speaking may not be heard at all and or not in an understandable manner by other participants of the call. In an embodiment of collision process may identify a voice collision between a first speaker and a second speaker in a multi party call. For example collision process may identify a voice collision between a first speaker e.g. user and a second speaker e.g. user based on at least in part transmitted audio and or transmitted audio above a threshold volume or the like from two or more client applications e.g. respective client applications and via which users and may participate in the multi party call .

In an example embodiment collision process may determine an identity of the first speaker and an identity of the second speaker giving rise to the voice collision. As discussed in an embodiment collision process may identify a voice collision based on at least in part transmitted audio e.g. which may be received forwarded or otherwise managed by communication application and or collision process from two or more client applications. In an embodiment collision process may determine an identity of the first speaker and an identity of the second speaker based on at least in part the client application and or computing device associated with each speaker. Continuing with the above example in which the voice collision may occur between user and user collision process may determine an identity of user and or of user based by identifying client application and or computing device associated with user and or client application and or computing device associated with user . In some embodiments identifying the client application and or computing device associated with a user may include determining a network attribute IP address MAC address etc. associated with the client application and or the computing device. In another embodiment collision process may determine an identity of one or more of the first speaker and of the second speaker based on an participant code or other credential utilized by the user to participate in the multi party call.

Collision process may also receive one or more voice collision rules. In an embodiment receiving the one or more voice collision rules may include accessing previously defined voice collision rules e.g. which may be stored on storage device and or another storage device . The one or more voice collision rules may be defined for example by one or more of a system administrator a call moderator default rules or the like. In some embodiments the one or more voice collision rules may include generic rules that may be for example utilized in connection with all multi party calls managed by communication application and or collision process . In another embodiment the one or more voice collision rules may be specific to a particular multi party call a particular participant and or participant set a particular project or topic etc. In some embodiments one or more predefined voice collision rules and or rules sets may be selected e.g. by a system administrator call moderator or other individual relative to a give call e.g. as part of a call scheduling activity as part of a call set up or initiation activity and or at another time .

In an example embodiment the one or more voice collision rules may be based on at least in part an organization structure. For example the multi party call may include one or more individuals associated with an organization such as business entity a governmental entity an educational entity or the like. Such entities may include organizational structures e.g. based on which the various participants of the multi party call may reside in an organizational hierarchy. For example a department head may reside at a higher level in an organizational hierarchy than a team leader etc. In an embodiment the organizational structure and or hierarchical level of each of the participants in the multi party call e.g. first speaker user and second speaker user may be determined based on an organizational directory e.g. an LDAP directory or the like. In an embodiment an LDAP directory which may identify a hierarchical position of the first speaker and of the second speaker may be stored on storage device for example.

In an example in which the one or more voice collision rules may be based on at least in part an organizational structure the one or more voice collision rules may define a speaking priority based on the organizational structure. For example a voice collision rule may be defined whereby speaking priority may be given to the speaker having a higher hierarchical position relative to the other speaker. In addition as an alternative to speaking priority being based on hierarchical position the one or more voice collision rules may also be based on at least in part other attributes of an organizational structure such as the departments with which the first and second speakers are respectively associated respective titles of the first and second speakers and the like. Various additional and or alternative voice collision rules may be defined.

In an embodiment the one or more voice collision rules may be based on at least in part speaker subject matter knowledge. For example a voice collision rule may define speaking priority based on the relative knowledge of the first speaker and the second speaker relative to the subject matter being discussed. In such an embodiment collision process may determine a topic associated with the multi party call. Collision process may for example determine a topic associated with a multi party call based on at least in part information associated with the call as part of call scheduling and or call set up and or based on other information e.g. a user input indicative of a call topic . Further collision process may determine a call participant e.g. who may be a speaker involved in a voice collision to have subject matter knowledge based on an explicit indication of subject matter knowledge relating to the topic of the call. For example subject matter knowledge of the participant may be defined e.g. based on a user input during scheduling or set up of the call. In some embodiments collision process may determine subject matter knowledge of a participant based on implicit indication of subject matter knowledge. For example collision process may determine a topic associated with a call e.g. a topic of the call is product A based on a subject included with an invitation to the call e.g. in a calendaring scheduling application . Collision process may further determine that user has subject matter knowledge pertaining to product A based on at least in part user being associated with the development team for product A e.g. based on at least in part information included within an organizational document such as an LDAP directory . Collision process may utilized various additional alternative techniques to determine subject matter knowledge of a call participant.

In another example embodiment a moderator of the multi party call and or another individual may identify one or more participants of the multi party call e.g. during a call scheduling activity call set up or initiation activity etc. as being subject matter experts for the purpose of the multi party call. In a similar manner the one or more voice collision rules may be based on at least in part a designation e.g. in a calendaring scheduling invitation for the call or the like of one or more participants in the multi party call as being essential or non essential for the call. Consistent with the foregoing in an embodiment the one or more voice collision rules may define speaking priority for the participants of the call based on at least in part relative knowledge of the speakers and or based on at least in part whether the speaker is an essential participant for the call or a non essential participant for the call.

In an example embodiment the one or more voice collision rules may be based on at least in part a speaker history. For example collision process may identify the first speaker e.g. user as commonly interrupting and or speaking over other call participants. For example collision process may determine that user is involved in a relatively large number and or high frequency of identified voice collisions e.g. as compared to an average number frequency of voice collisions for other users . Additionally alternatively one or more specific users may be identified e.g. by a system administrator call moderator or other individual as being a frequent interrupter. Continuing with the above example in an embodiment the one or more voice collision rules may define a speaking priority user relative to user who may be determined to be a frequent interrupter.

Consistent with an example embodiment herein the one or more voice collision rules may be based on at least in part a combination of one or more of organizational structure subject matter knowledge and speaker history. In further embodiments the one or more voice collision rules may be prioritized. For example in a voice collision event in which more than one of the voice collision rule may apply one of the voice collision rules may control.

Collision process may also determine one of the first speaker and the second speaker to be a priority speaker based upon at least in part the one or more voice collision rules. For example based on at least in part the one or more voice collision rules collision process may determine that one of the first speaker and the second speaker should be given priority and therefore should be heard by the other call participants relative to the other speaker. Further collision process may further allocate call bandwidth to the priority speaker. As such the priority speaker may be heard by the other call participants during the voice collision while the other speaker may not be heard e.g. may be muted relative to the other call participants during the voice collision.

In some embodiments the one or more voice collision rules may define speaker priority at least in part with respect to one or more different call participant subsets. That is the speakers involved in the voice collision may be given speaker priority relative to different call participant subsets. The call participant subset may include at least a portion of the call participants. In some embodiments the call participant subset may include less than all of the call participants of the multi party call. Consistent with such an embodiment collision process may determine one of the first speaker and the second speaker as a priority speaker for a first call participant subset. Further collision process may allocate call bandwidth to the priority speaker for the first call participant subset. In an embodiment the first call participant subset may include less than all of the call participants. Accordingly in an embodiment collision process may determine the first speaker as a priority speaker for the first call participant subset and may allocate call bandwidth to the first speaker for the first call participant subset. Further collision process may determine that the second speaker is a priority speaker for a second call participant subset and may allocate call bandwidth to the second speaker for the second call participant subset. In such an embodiment the first call participant subset me hear the first speaker during the voice collision and the second call participant subset may hear the second speaker during the voice collision.

While various embodiments and features have been described herein it will be apparent to one having skill in the art that the various embodiments and features may be susceptible to combination with one another and or to various additional alternative combinations. All such combination of subject matter disclosed herein are intended to be contemplated by the present disclosure.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Having thus described the invention of the present application in detail and by reference to embodiments thereof it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of the invention defined in the appended claims.

