---

title: System and method for personalized commands
abstract: Various embodiments of a system and method for personalized commands are described. The system and method for personalized commands may include a payment service including a command management component. Such payment service may be responsive to one or more base commands. The command management component may be configured to generate a user interface for specifying personalized commands that correspond to the base commands. The command management component may be configured to generate mapping information from the information received via the user interface. The command management component may be configured to receive one or more messages that may include commands for the payment service, including personalized commands. From the personalized commands, the command management component may be configured to determine a corresponding base commands (e.g., based on the mapping information). Once the base command is determined, the payment service may perform the base command.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08732075&OS=08732075&RS=08732075
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08732075
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120615
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 056 608 filed Mar. 27 2008 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The Internet sometimes called simply the Net is a worldwide system of computer networks in which a client at any one computer may with permission obtain information from any other computer. The most widely used part of the Internet is the World Wide Web often abbreviated WWW which is commonly referred to as the web. The web may be defined as all the resources e.g. web pages and web sites and users on the Internet that use the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or variations thereof to access the resources. A web site is a related collection of web files that includes a beginning file called a home page. From the home page the user may navigate to other web pages on the web site. A web server program is a program that using the client server model and HTTP serves the files that form the web pages of a web site to the web users whose computers contain HTTP client programs e.g. web browsers that forward requests and display responses. A web server program may host one or more web sites.

Generally speaking a Web service interface may be configured to provide a standard cross platform API Application Programming Interface for communication between a client requesting some service to be performed and the service provider. In some embodiments a Web service interface may be configured to support the exchange of documents or messages including information describing the service request and response to that request. Such documents or messages may be exchanged using standardized Web protocols such as the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP for example and may be formatted in a platform independent data format such as eXtensible Markup Language XML for example.

Mobile telephony has emerged alongside the Internet and the web and the two technologies have crossed over and merged to form what is essentially a global communications and information network. Cellular telephones for example have become digital and continue to become more sophisticated. Today many digital cell phones are capable of web access via their cellular service providers. Similarly many web applications are capable of telephone communications to conventional phones and to mobile telephones. In addition other technologies such as text messaging have emerged to enhance the capabilities and uses of mobile telephones and other personal electronic devices. Further other personal electronic devices such as Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may provide mobile telephone links to the web and user interfaces for accessing the web along with text messaging and other information and communications capabilities. Thus these devices are part of the emerging global communications and information network. SMS Short Message Service is a service for sending messages of up to 160 characters 224 characters if using a 5 bit mode to mobile phones. SMS does not require the mobile phone to be active and within range. An SMS message may be held until the target phone is active and within range. SMS messages may be transmitted within the same cell or out of the cell to phones with roaming service capability. SMS messages may also be sent to digital phones from a web site or from one digital phone to another. An SMS gateway is a web site that accepts SMS messages for transmission to cell phones within the cell served by that gateway or that acts as an international gateway for users with roaming capability.

Various applications of the Internet and of the web involve electronic transactions such as funds transfers. These applications involve the transfer of funds from one entity to one or more other entities. These applications range from transferal of funds between financial institutions to electronic payment by individuals for purchases of goods or services from e commerce sites. With the merging of mobile telephony and other technologies and the web into an emerging global communications and information network these other technologies have become part of the transaction process for many such applications.

While the system and method for personalized commands is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that the system and method for personalized commands is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit embodiments to the particular form disclosed. Rather the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the system and method for personalized commands as defined by the appended claims. Any headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used herein the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to.

Various embodiments of a system and method for personalized commands are described. The system and method for personalized commands may include a payment service including a command management component. Such payment service may be responsive to one or more base commands. For example such commands may include commands for transferring funds making a payment or checking an account balance. The command management component may be configured to generate a user interface for specifying personalized commands that correspond to the base commands. For example the user may specify the personalized command P to be used in place of the command purchase. Note that this command is merely exemplary and other types of commands are possible and contemplated. The command management component may also be configured to generate mapping information from the information received via the user interface. For instance mapping information may map a personalized command to a base command. The command management component may also be configured to receive one or more messages that may include commands for the payment service. Such commands may include personalized commands such as personalized commands the user has specified via the user interface. From the personalized commands the command management component may be configured to determine corresponding base commands. In various embodiments this determination may be made based on the generated mapping information. Once the base command is determined the payment service may perform the base command e.g. transferring funds performing a payment etc. .

In various embodiments the command management component described herein may be configured to receive commands via a variety of communication channels. Communications channels may include any methods or mechanisms for transmitting information between entities. Communications channels generally include protocols for information transfer e.g. Short Message Service SMS for text messaging media over or through which information is transmitted according to the protocols and infrastructures for supporting the transmissions e.g. cellular telephone service providers . Further a communications channel may require devices that enable entities to communicate via the communications channel for example a mobile phone satellite phone cell phone conventional telephone computer system or Personal Digital Assistant PDA . Examples of communications channels include but are not limited to conventional land based telephone systems mobile or cellular telephone systems satellite telephone systems email instant messaging IM Voice over IP VoIP and text messaging. Note that separate communications channels may share one or more of protocol media infrastructure and enabling device. For example text messaging and cellular telephone systems may be enabled through the same device a cell phone and may transmit over the same medium. Note that communications on communications channels over which voice messages may be transmitted e.g. conventional land based telephone systems mobile or cellular telephone systems satellite telephone systems VoIP etc. may collectively be referred to herein as voice communications and likewise the channels may be referred to collectively as voice communications channels . Further note that voice communications includes both live or real human voice communications and automated voice systems. Automated voice systems include automated systems in which synthesized or recorded voice messages are transmitted to communicate information. Note that some automated voice systems may transmit at least some synthesized or recorded voice messages in response to vocal input via voice recognition technology or other input into a communication device e.g. numeric key pad entries .

The information that indicates a correspondence between commands of a base command set and respective commands of a personalized command set may be referred to herein as mapping information. Mapping information may in some cases be specified by a user. Accordingly the command management component may be configured to generate and or provide a user interface for receiving mapping information from the user as described in more detail below. While the mapping information is illustrated as command mapping table s such information may in various embodiments be stored within various other types of data structures.

As demonstrated by the illustrated embodiment command management component may be configured to receive personalized commands such as commands received from a user or another system. For each personalized command that is received the command management component may determine a corresponding base command. In various embodiments this determination may be based on the mapping information indicated by command mapping table s .

In one embodiment the payment service may enable users e.g. entity to enter text message commands on a communications device e.g. a cell phone that is text message capable and to transmit the commands to payment service at a specified address. In one embodiment text messages may adhere to the Short Message Service SMS protocol. In other embodiments text messages may include any type of message that includes one or more text strings such as an email message an instant message IM or some other text based message. The following is an exemplary format for such a command which is not intended to be limiting 

In the above exemplary command represents the monetary amount to be paid and represents a phone number of the payee e.g. target entity . Note that text message commands to initiate other types of transactions or to initiate other functions of the payment service may also be sent to payment service . In addition in some embodiments source entity may enter such a command on a communications device to initiate a transaction e.g. a payment with target entity . For instance source entity may specify an amount to be paid and a phone number associated with target entity .

In various embodiments the commands to which payment service is responsive may form a base set of commands which may be referred to herein as a base command set. Commands of such set may also be referred to herein as base commands. As described above with respect to command management component may be configured to generate and or manage information that indicates a correspondence or correlation between commands of a base command set and respective commands of a personalized command set. Accordingly command management component may enable payment service to receive personalized commands. For instance in one embodiment the command management component may receive a message sent by source entity . The commands management component may parse a command within the message and replace the command with a corresponding base command. The command management component may pass the corresponding base command to the payment component for further processing. Note that this example is not intended to be limiting and other techniques for providing the payment service are possible and contemplated. Such techniques are described below in more detail such as with respect to the description of .

In some embodiments messages sent by source entity may include commands that require interaction with target entity . For instance as described above such messages may include a command to e.g. initiate a transaction with the target entity or e.g. request a payment from the target entity. In such embodiments the payment service may be configured to notify e.g. by providing a notification message target entity of such commands. In various embodiments such notification message may include an indication that the notification message is authentic e.g. is from the payment service . The target entity may respond to the notification message and complete the transaction with the payment service e.g. by communicating with the payment service to receive a payment or a transferal of funds initiated by the first entity . Note that in some embodiments a message sent by source entity to payment service may include a command that does not require interaction with the illustrated target entity. For instance such messages might include a command for a balance inquiry.

The message s sent by the source entity to the payment service may include information that may be used to identify the source entity or may otherwise be identifiable as being from the particular entity. In some embodiments the payment service may identify the message as authentic as being from the source entity via one or more methods. For example in one embodiment caller ID may be used to identify the message as authentic. In one embodiment the messages may include a security phrase or other identifier known only to the source entity and to the payment service. Other methods for identifying the messages as authentic may be used in various embodiments. The messages may also include information that includes but is not limited to information identifying the target entity or entities e.g. a telephone number account number email address alias etc. and an amount to be paid or transferred to the target entity s .

Before completing a transaction to the target entity the payment service may in various embodiments authorize the transaction with the source entity via communications through a second and separate communications channel for example a telephone call to a cell phone standard telephone PDA or other device capable of telephone communications via a text message to a text message capable device in possession of the source entity or through some other communications channel. Note that the initiation of the transaction and the authorization of the transaction may be but are not necessarily performed by the source entity using the same device e.g. a cell phone but that two different communications channels are used.

Note that the payment service may be used to perform the actual funds transfer for the transaction and thus may provide accounts for funds transfer to various entities which may include either one or both of source entity and target entity or alternatively the payment service may serve as a service for one or more other services that perform the actual funds transfer.

Further note that the source entity and or the target entity may represent individuals or corporate entities such as organizations businesses retail businesses industrial enterprises e commerce businesses governmental entities or in general any two entities between which a transaction may take place. Further note that the transaction may be a payment for goods or services a money or other commodity transfer a payment or transfer for other purposes e.g. for tax purposes or in general any transaction involving the transferal of a commodity from one entity to another. Further note that embodiments may be used for other purposes than for authorization of transfers of commodities for example for authorizing the scheduling allocation or transferal of resources for scheduling and responding to meetings etc.

In various embodiments for a base set of commands including one or more base commands the command management component may enable a user e.g. source entity to register one or more corresponding personalized commands. In various embodiments each personalized command may be different than its respective base command. In one example a personalized command may be an abbreviated version of a corresponding base command. Such personalized commands may facilitate quicker and easier text entry. For instance on various devices such as devices lacking a QWERTY keyboard the personalized command P may be more convenient to type than the base command purchase. In some embodiments such personalized commands may be employed when security is not a primary concern of the user. In another example a personalized command may include a sequence of letters numbers and or symbols arranged in a manner to ensure high security. For instance instead of the base command purchase a personalized command might be 5dV 93kROp. In this way if a user s device were to be lost or stolen it may be difficult for an unauthorized individual to send such commands from the lost or stolen device.

In some embodiments personalized commands may be tailored to be highly secure such as case sensitive string of various characters numbers and symbols. One example of such a command includes Z5 gw F3 which is illustrated by the personalized command corresponding to the base command transfer. In other cases personalized commands may be tailored to rapid input such as input on devices deficient of QWERTY input. For instance such personalized commands could be tailored to be short simple commands requiring few keystrokes or other input methods. One example of such a command includes B which is the personalized command corresponding to the base command balance. In other cases personalized commands may be the same as the corresponding base command e.g. if the user is satisfied with the base command . For example in the illustrated embodiment the base command for requesting funds and the personalized command for requesting funds are both request. 

In various embodiments the command management component described herein may be configured to ensure that redundancies do not exist among personalized commands submitted via such user interface. In one embodiment the command management component may determine that a user is attempting to submit a personalized command that corresponds to a particular base command whereby the particular personalized command has already been submitted for another base command of the base command set. In order to avoid conflict or redundancies the command management component may prompt the user to change at least one of the personalized commands. However in other embodiments the command management component may enable a user to correlate the same personalized command with two base commands. For instance a particular personalized command could be correlated with a base command for making a payment and a base command for checking an account balance. In this way when the user submits the particular personalized command two separate actions are performed e.g. a payment is made and the account balance is checked . In some embodiments and number of base commands may be correlated to a single base command.

As described above some base commands may need to be highly secure from fraudulent individuals. For instance the user may desire to prevent an unauthorized fund transfer. Accordingly in various embodiments the command management component may be configured to enable a user to disable one or more base commands instead of providing personalized commands for the base commands. In other words if a user designates that a particular base command should be disabled e.g. by leaving ones of fields empty the command management component and or the payment service described herein may be rendered unresponsive to such base commands.

As described above messages sent to payment service may include information for identifying the user e.g. source entity such as caller ID information or another identifier e.g. user s name account number etc. . Accordingly when a message is received by the payment service the command management component may be configured to determine the entity that sent such message e.g. by using the caller ID or other identifier to lookup the user s identity from customer records . In various embodiments the command management component may be configured to locate the user s configuration file and determine whether personalized commands have been activated for the user s account such as described above with respect to .

If personalized commands have not been activated for the user s account the command management component may determine that messages sent from the user are to include base commands. In this case e.g. personalized commands have not been activated if a command parsed from such messages is of the base command set the command management component and or the payment service may process the command or provide the base command to the payment service for further processing. For example the command management component and or the payment service may process a command to transfer funds e.g. the transfer command by transferring funds from entity to entity and or transferring funds from an account controlled by entity to an account controlled by entity . However in the case that the received command is not of the base command set the command management component may not process the command and may instead perform one or more security measures.

One such security measure may include tracking the number of times an incorrect command e.g. a command outside of the base command set in this example has been received. In various embodiments if the number of times an incorrect command has been received exceeds a particular lockout threshold the command management component may lockout that user s account. In other words if the number of times an incorrect command has been received exceeds the threshold the command management component may not process subsequent commands received for that user s account. In some cases the user s account may be reactivated subsequent to such lockout. For instance the command management component and or the payment service may be configured to contact the user in some cases through a separate communications channel to unlock the account. For instance the user may be required to enter a Personal Identification Number PIN another security code and or other security related information e.g. a mother s maiden name . In various embodiments the lockout threshold may be specified by the user e.g. source entity the command management component or the payment service.

While in some cases incorrect commands may be submitted by fraudulent individuals e.g. an individual that has stolen a cell phone or other device from which commands may be sent in some cases the submission of an incorrect command may be a mistake submitted by a legitimate user. Accordingly in some embodiments after receiving an incorrect command the command management component may be configured to provide a notification to the user such notification indicating that an incorrect command has been submitted. For instance one example of such a notification might include You have submitted an incorrect command. If you submit three or more incorrect commands you may be temporarily locked out of your account. 

If personalized commands have been activated for the user s account the command management component may determine that messages sent from the user are to include personalized commands such as personalized commands registered in the manner described above with respect to and . In this case e.g. personalized commands have been activated if a command is of the personalized command set the command management component may determine the base command that corresponds to the personalized command. In one embodiment the command management component may determine the corresponding base command e.g. by accessing mapping information from command mapping tables . For instance as described above the mapping information may indicate such personalized commands e.g. personalized commands registered in the manner described above with respect to and and the base commands to which the personalized commands correspond. Accordingly the command management component may determine for a given personalized command the corresponding base command based on such mapping information. Once the corresponding base command is determined the command management component may process the command and or provide the base command to the payment component for further processing.

For example consider the base commands and personalized commands described above with respect to . For instance consider the following command which is not intended to be limiting 

In this example the command management component may determine that personalized commands have been activated for the particular user s account e.g. by checking an account preference of an account associated with the user that sent such command . The command management component mapping table may the search mapping information of mapping table s to determine which base command corresponds to the personalized command 5dV 93kROp as indicated by the mapping information. In this example as is the case in the illustrated embodiment of the personalized command corresponds to the base command transfer which is a command for transferring funds. Accordingly the command management component and or the payment service may process the command to transfer funds e.g. by transferring funds from entity to entity and or transferring funds from an account controlled by entity to an account controlled by entity . However in the case that the received command is not of the personalized command set the command management component may not process the command and may instead perform one or more security measures.

One such security measure may include tracking the number of times an incorrect command e.g. a command outside of the personalized command set in this example has been received. As described above if the number of times an incorrect command has been received exceeds a particular lockout threshold the command management component may lockout that user s account. In other words if the number of times an incorrect command has been received exceeds the threshold the command management component may not process subsequent commands received for that user s account. In some cases the user s account may be reactivated subsequent to such lockout. For instance the command management component and or the payment service may be configured to contact the user in some cases through a separate communications channel to unlock the account. For instance the user may be required to enter a Personal Identification Number PIN another security code and or other security related information e.g. a mother s maiden name . In various embodiments the lockout threshold may be specified by the user e.g. source entity the command management component or the payment service.

As described above in some cases incorrect commands may be submitted by fraudulent individuals e.g. an individual that has stolen a cell phone or other device from which commands may be sent in some cases the submission of an incorrect command may be a mistake submitted by a legitimate user. Accordingly in some embodiments after receiving an incorrect command the command management component may be configured to provide a notification to the user such notification indicating that an incorrect command has been submitted. For instance one example of such a notification might include You have submitted an incorrect command. If you submit three or more incorrect commands you may be temporarily locked out of your account. 

Various methods may be employed by the command management component described herein. The methods described herein may in various embodiments be implemented by a command management component such as command management component . An example of one such method is illustrated by the flowchart of . The method may include generating and or providing a user interface for specifying personalized commands block . For instance the method may include generating a user interface that includes a listing of base commands such as commands to which a payment service e.g. payment service is responsive. Such user interface may also include one or more user input fields or controls for inputting personalized commands such as commands chosen by a user interacting with the user interface. In various embodiments the method may include generating a display that enables a user e.g. source entity to specify a personalized command for each base command listed. In various embodiments generating a user interface for specifying personalized commands may include generating a display such as the display described above with respect to . Note that the display of is merely one example of such a user interface other types of displays are possible and contemplated.

In various embodiments the method may include for each of one or more base commands receiving a corresponding personalized command via the user interface block . For example such user interface may include one or more input fields or controls for inputting a personalized command. Accordingly the method may include receiving such personalized commands. For instance in the exemplary display of the method may include receiving personalized commands . In various embodiments the method may include generating mapping information that indicates correlations or correspondences between base commands and respective personalized commands block . For instance as described above commands mapping tables may include mapping information that indicates various personalized commands and an indication of for each personalized command a base command to which the personalized command corresponds. The method may also include storing the mapping information block . For instance the method may include storing mapping information as one or more mapping tables such as mapping tables . In some embodiments the mapping information may be stored with or as part of a user configuration file such as user configuration files described above.

The flowchart of illustrates one example of a method for receiving and processing commands according to various embodiments. The method may include receiving a message including a command block . For example as described above various messages may include commands for a payment service. For instance an entity e.g. source entity may desire to transfer funds to another entity e.g. target entity . Accordingly one type of message may include a transfer command for transferring funds between entities. For example two types of commands for transferring funds between entities are illustrated in the exemplary display of . As illustrated in the base command for transferring funds is transfer and the personalized command for transferring funds is Z5 gw F3. In various embodiments the method may also include receiving other types of commands such as commands of services other than payment services.

The method may further include determining a user account based on the message block . For instance in various embodiments the received message may include information that may be used to identify the entity that sent the message. For example the message may include an account number a phone number a name or some other identifier. In one embodiment the message may include information for identifying a user configuration file e.g. one of user configuration files and or mapping information e.g. one of command mapping tables . Accordingly in various embodiments the method may include determining a user account based on the information within the received message. For example the message may be sent via a cell phone or other telecommunications device and the method may include accessing a user s telephone number from the message or alternatively by utilizing caller ID and using such telephone number to determine an account associated with the telephone number.

In various embodiments the method may include determining whether personalized commands are specified for use with the account block . For instance in one embodiment the method may include accessing a user configuration file associated with the account e.g. one of user configuration files . As described above user configuration files may include account preferences. In some embodiments such account preferences may include an indication of whether personalized commands should be activated for the account e.g. an indication corresponding to item of . Accordingly the method may include accessing such an indication to determine personalized commands are specified for use with the account.

If personalized commands are specified for use with the account the method may include determining whether the received command is a personalized command block . For instance the method may include accessing mapping information such as the mapping information described above with respect to mapping tables and searching the personalized commands specified by the mapping information for the particular account . If the received command matches a personalized command specified by the mapping information the method may include determining that the received command is a personalized command. If the received command is does not match any of the personalized commands specified by the mapping information the method may include determining that the received command is not a personalized command.

If the command is a personalized command the method may include determining a base command from the personalized command block . For example mapping information e.g. mapping information of mapping tables may include a list of personalized commands for use with an account as well as respective base commands to which such personalized commands correspond. For instance the method may include determining a based command that corresponds to the received command as specified by the mapping information such as mapping information of mapping tables described above.

After the base command has been determined the method may include processing the base command or alternatively providing the base command or an indication thereof to another entity configured to process such commands block . For instance in one embodiment the method may be implemented by the command management component described herein and the processing of the base command may be performed by the command management component and or the payment service . However in some embodiments the method may include providing the base command or an indication thereof to another entity such as through a web services interface.

If the command is not a personalized command the method may include not processing the command block . For instance such command could be a command incorrectly entered by a user. In other cases the command could be a fraudulent command such as a command sent by a fraudulent individual. Accordingly in some embodiments if the command is not a personalized command the method may include performing one or more security measures block . For instance as described above a counter could be used to keep track of the number of incorrect commands submitted. The method may include keeping track of such counter and locking a user s account if such number reaches a particular threshold.

If personalized commands are not specified for use with the account the method may include determining whether the received command is a base command block . If the received command is a base command the method may include processing the base command or alternatively providing the base command or an indication thereof to another entity configured to process such commands block . For instance in one embodiment the method may be implemented by the command management component described herein and the processing of the base command may be performed by the command management component and or the payment service . However in some embodiments the method may include providing the base command or an indication thereof to another entity such as through a web services interface.

If the received command is not a base command the method may include not processing the command block . For instance such command could be a command incorrectly entered by a user. In other cases the command could be a fraudulent command such as a command sent by a fraudulent individual. Accordingly in some embodiments if the command is not a personalized command the method may include performing one or more security measures block . For instance as described above a counter could be used to keep track of the number of incorrect commands submitted. The method may include keeping track of such counter and locking a user s account if such number reaches a particular threshold.

The block diagrams of illustrate exemplary configurations of systems including a command management component according to some embodiments. In each of network may be a variety of networks include but not limited to Local Area Networks LANs Wide Area Networks WANs telecommunication networks e.g. mobile voice and data networks some other type of network or some combination thereof. In general network may be configured to support communication via any of the various communication channels described herein.

As illustrated by the command management component may in various embodiments be configured as a component of a transaction manage service e.g. payment service according to some embodiments. For instance in various embodiments payment service may be an application executing on a web server such as web server . In this example command management component may be an application extension or another item configured to extend the functionality of payment service . For instance command management component may enable payment service to process personalized commands such as the personalized commands described herein. Additionally source entity and target entity may communicate with command management component and or payment service via communication devices such as communication device and communication device . Communication devices and may include various devices including but not limited to cellular or mobile telephones or other devices configured to communicate via voice or text message communications devices configured to communication via email conventional land based telephones and or devices configured to communicate via any of the various communication channels described herein. Additionally data store may be a back end database or other system configured to store user configuration files and or command mapping tables .

In other embodiments such as the illustrated embodiment of command management component may be implemented as an application separate from the payment service yet residing on the same web server . For instance command management component may be an application configured to service requests from payment service . For instance in one embodiment if payment service receives a personalized command from source entity the payment service may request that command management component determine the corresponding base command e.g. as indicated by mapping information and return the base command or an indication thereof to the payment service for further processing. Note the other elements of may operate in a manner similar to or the same as the respective like numbered elements of .

In other embodiments command management component may be configured to be executed on a computer system e.g. web server separate from the computer system on which the payment service executes such as illustrated by the block diagram of . For instance in the illustrated embodiment command management component may be a web service configured to service requests from payment service . For instance command management component may be configured to service requests to determine base commands from personalized commands. As illustrated by payment service may communicate with command management component via network which may in various embodiment be a network separate from network . For instance in one embodiment network may be a wireless communications network configured to transport text messages sent to and or from communication device and . In contrast network may be a WAN such as the Internet in this example.

While the various embodiments described herein are largely described with respect to a payment service the command management component may be implemented within a variety of different systems. In some embodiments such as the illustrated embodiment of command management component may be configured to interact with a text message based service such as text message based service . In general a text message based service may include any service configured to receive send text messages from to one or more users such as source entity . In various embodiments such users may have an account established with the text message based service. In some embodiments the text message based service may support the SMS messaging protocol however in other embodiments other messaging protocols may be employed whether such protocols are currently known or developed in the future.

In various embodiments the command management component may be configured to operate on items that are not necessarily commands. For instance in the illustrated embodiment the command management component may be configured to enable a source entity to communicate with text message based service with one or more personalized strings. Such personalized strings may correspond to respective base strings. In some case such base strings may be strings to which the text message based service is responsive. For instance such strings to which the text message base service is responsive may be commands. However in other cases the base strings may instead be payload of a text message. In other words the base strings may be strings that are to be delivered by the text message based service to other entities e.g. strings of a text message sent between two mobile phone users .

Similar to the embodiment described above with respect to the command management component may be configured to generate and or provide a user interface that enables the user e.g. source entity to specify the personalized strings. In various embodiments a personalized string may be provided for each of multiple base strings. In some embodiments such base strings may be specified by the command management component. However in some embodiments such user interface may enable the user to specify both a base string and a corresponding personalized string.

In various embodiments for a base set of strings including one or more base strings the command management component may enable a user e.g. source entity to register one or more corresponding personalized strings. In various embodiments each personalized string may be different than its respective base string. In one example a personalized string may be an abbreviated version of a corresponding base string. Such personalized strings may facilitate quicker and easier text entry. For instance on various devices such as devices lacking a QWERTY keyboard the personalized string S may be more convenient to type than the base string search. In some embodiments such personalized strings may be employed when security is not a primary concern of the user. In another example a personalized string may include a sequence of letter numbers and or symbols arranged in a manner to ensure high security. For instance instead of the base string 06 12 1960 e.g. a birth date a personalized command might be d B 28M3pR. In this way if a user s device were to be lost or stolen it may be difficult for an unauthorized individual to send such strings from the lost or stolen device. In various embodiments this may also provide the added benefit of ensuring an eavesdropper e.g. an individual viewing the input of such strings into the user s communication device does not obtain knowledge of the actual base string. In various embodiments command management component may store mapping information that indicates the personalized strings base strings and or correlations between respective personalized strings and respective base strings. For instance such mapping information may be generated from information received via the above described user interface.

Accordingly the command management application may in various embodiments be configured to determine base strings from personalized strings in text messages received from source entity . For instance when text message based service receives a text message command management component may determine the user s identity from e.g. a phone number indicated by caller ID. The command management component may use such identifier to retrieve mapping information from command mapping tables . For each personalized string the command management component may determine the corresponding base string from the mapping information. In some embodiments the command management component and or the text message based service may perform one or more actions in response to the base string. In one embodiment the command management component may replace the personalized strings with their respective base strings within the received text message. This modified text message may then be forwarded to other entities in various embodiments.

Various embodiments of a system and method for personalized commands as described herein may be executed on one or more computer systems which may interact with various other devices. One such computer system is computer system illustrated by . Computer system may be capable of implementing a command management component such as command management component . In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface and one or more input output devices such as cursor control device keyboard and display s . In some embodiments it is contemplated that embodiments may be implemented using a single instance of computer system while in other embodiments multiple such systems or multiple nodes making up computer system may be configured to host different portions or instances of embodiments. For example in one embodiment some elements may be implemented via one or more nodes of computer system that are distinct from those nodes implementing other elements.

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store program instructions and or data accessible by processor . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing a command management component such as command management component described above are shown stored within system memory as program instructions . In other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media or on similar media separate from system memory or computer system . Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or CD DVD ROM coupled to computer system via I O interface . Program instructions and data stored via a computer accessible medium may be transmitted by transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals which may be conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces such as input output devices . In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network such as other computer systems e.g. the illustrated communication devices and web servers or between nodes of computer system . In various embodiments network interface may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

Input output devices may in some embodiments include one or more display terminals keyboards keypads touchpads scanning devices voice or optical recognition devices or any other devices suitable for entering or accessing data by one or more computer systems . Multiple input output devices may be present in computer system or may be distributed on various nodes of computer system . In some embodiments similar input output devices may be separate from computer system and may interact with one or more nodes of computer system through a wired or wireless connection such as over network interface .

As shown in memory may include program instructions configured to implement a command management component such as command management component . In one embodiment command management component may implement the methods described above such as the methods illustrated by . In other embodiments different elements and data may be included.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer system is merely illustrative and is not intended to limit the scope of embodiments. In particular the computer system and devices may include any combination of hardware or software that can perform the indicated functions including computers network devices Internet appliances PDAs wireless phones pagers etc. Computer system may also be connected to other devices that are not illustrated or instead may operate as a stand alone system. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated components may in some embodiments be combined in fewer components or distributed in additional components. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated components may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software components may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computer system via inter computer communication. Some or all of the system components or data structures may also be stored e.g. as instructions or structured data on a computer accessible medium or a portable article to be read by an appropriate drive various examples of which are described above. In some embodiments instructions stored on a computer accessible medium separate from computer system may be transmitted to computer system via transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link. Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Accordingly various embodiments may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. as well as transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as network and or a wireless link.

The methods described herein may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof in different embodiments. In addition the order of the steps of the methods may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc. Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

The various embodiments described herein are meant to be illustrative and not limiting. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible. Accordingly plural instances may be provided for components described herein as a single instance. Boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of claims that follow. Finally structures and functionality presented as discrete components in the exemplary configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of embodiments as defined in the claims that follow.

