---

title: Apparatus to assist in the collection of stormwater-quality samples in a vertical profile
abstract: A sampling method, fluid collection system, and auxiliary sampling device to assist an autosampler in collecting samples from a fluid source. The sampling device includes a support frame and a motorized actuator, with a piston, attached to an end of the support frame. A sample arm has an upper end disposed at an end of the support frame opposite the motorized actuator and a lower end with an inlet to receive a fluid sample. A cable and pulley mechanism links the sample arm to the piston. A fluid conduit within the sample arm has a fluid intake end connected to the inlet and a fluid discharge end connected to an autosampler. The cable and pulley mechanism pivots the sample arm when the motorized actuator pushes or retracts the piston to position the inlet at desired positions within the fluid source so that the autosampler collects multiple samples at various depths.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08935965&OS=08935965&RS=08935965
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Department of the Interior
number: 08935965
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120912
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 779 549 filed on May 13 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 179 052 filed on May 18 2009 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon.

The publications and other materials referred to herein by author and date are incorporated herein by reference and are listed alphabetically by author in the appended bibliography.

This application relates in general to fluid samplers and in particular to the automated collection of stormwater quality samples in a vertical profile.

Sediment is a pollutant in rivers streams lakes and reservoirs that can destroy aquatic habitats and affect our drinking water and recreational activities such as swimming. Many of today s environmental policies are oriented towards controlling the quantity of sediment and sediment associated constituents from not only large rural watersheds but also smaller urban drainage basins into receiving waters. These policies are based upon scientific research designed to characterize and quantify the presence of a suite of regulated contaminants. Proper characterization depends on the collection processing and analysis of accurate concentration data.

Autosamplers are widely used to collect stormwater quality samples where the remoteness or inaccessibility of a study site precludes manual collection. Additionally autosamplers can be programmed to acquire samples in an environment that is rapidly changing such as is the case when sampling urban runoff. The collection of a representative stormwater quality sample in urban runoff can be difficult due to large sources of variability both temporal and spatial Selbig and Bannerman 2007 Horowitz 1995 . Use of automated stormwater quality samplers has vastly improved the way water resources professionals collect samples in these environments. However these automated pumping systems do not always collect a representative aliquot of the flow moving past the sample intake resulting in biased concentration data Smith 2002 Fowler et al. 2009 .

One of the sources of such non representative samples is the settling of sediments in flows. A study conducted by the inventors collected and characterized data derived from stormwater quality samples from urban basins. The intakes of autosamplers were located at different vertical locations in the water column including approximately 1 inch off the pipe invert and at 30 and 60 percent of the water level. The inventors observed from the resulting sediment concentration and particle size distribution data that larger particles tend to concentrate near the bottom of the pipe. In general concentrations of suspended sediment decreased with increasing vertical distance from the storm sewer invert. Similarly median particle sizes also decreased with increasing distance from the pipe floor. As energy of flow increases with increasing discharge stratification of sediment size and concentration become more apparent suggesting vertical stratification of solids by particle size in the flowing water column of storm sewer runoff.

Typically the intake orifice of an autosampler is located near the pipe floor to capture low flow conditions. The recommended intake orifice diameter for automated samplers is approximately inch Teledyne ISCO 2008 . Therefore in large diameter pipes the stormwater quality sample collected by the autosampler represents only the bottom inch of the pipe. During higher flows the majority of the water column is not sampled. Even in circular pipes with a diameter as small as 1 foot the concentration and distribution of sediment is concentrated near the bottom of the pipe over a range of flow conditions Smith 2002 . Thus resulting concentration data and particle size distributions using the suggested autosampler installation configurations could bias towards larger particles that tend to accumulate near the bottom of a pipe or other conveyance.

The ability of an autosampler to collect a representative stormwater quality sample has relied upon proper mixing of the flow stream prior to sampling. This would disperse all sediment into a homogenous mixture rendering the location of sample acquisition in the water column irrelevant. However the energy required to distribute coarse material homogenously throughout the water column is insufficient under normal flow conditions Clark et al. 2008 . Coarse particles with high specific density become stratified and tend to be transported along the bottom of the pipe floor. Attempts to artificially provide agitation in the flow path to produce a sample representing the average concentration of suspended sediment have proved unsatisfactory Smith 2002 . Since introduction of objects in the flow path can often alter the hydrology by slowing down flow and thus allowing sediment to settle out of suspension most efforts for a homogenous runoff mixture are focused at a nearby outfall. However site conditions or study requirements may preclude sampling at an outfall. Also in an urban environment the energy required to transport sediment in a pipe via increased flow can change rapidly such that sediment moving as bedload can quickly be carried as suspended load and vice versa. Therefore proper characterization of the distribution of particles in urban runoff requires the collection of water quality samples from multiple rather than a single fixed point in the water column.

In accordance with the invention then there is provided a liquid sampling method assembly and device to assist an autosampler in collecting stormwater quality samples that are more representative of the entire water column. Stormwater quality sampling in a pipe is traditionally done by installing a single sample tube at a fixed point near the bottom of a pipe. Described herein is an auxiliary sampling device for use with an autosampler that improves upon this concept by connecting the sample tube to the described device so that stormwater quality samples can be acquired from a single or multiple points in the water column. Integrating data from multiple points spaced vertically throughout the water column rather than using a single fixed point results in a more accurate representation of stormwater borne solids.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention a fluid sampling device has a support frame and a motorized actuator with a piston attached to an end of the support frame. A sample arm has an upper end disposed at an end of the support frame opposite the motorized actuator and a lower end with an inlet to receive a fluid sample from a fluid source. A cable and pulley mechanism links the sample arm to the piston. A fluid conduit within the sample arm has a fluid intake end connected to the inlet and a fluid discharge end connected to an autosampler. The cable and pulley mechanism vertically pivots the sample arm when the motorized actuator pushes or retracts the piston to position the inlet at desired positions within the fluid source so that the autosampler collects multiple samples at various depths.

In accordance with another embodiment a method of collecting samples from a fluid source using an autosampler includes assembling an auxiliary sampling device by providing a support frame having a front end and a rear end attaching a motorized actuator with a piston to the rear end of the support frame providing a rotatable sample arm having an upper end disposed at the front end of the support frame and a lower end with an inlet to receive a fluid sample from a fluid source connecting a cable and pulley mechanism between the sample arm and the piston and placing a fluid conduit having a fluid intake end and a fluid discharge end within the sample arm and connecting the fluid intake end to the inlet to receive the fluid sample and connecting the fluid discharge end to an autosampler. The motorized actuator is controlled to push or retract the piston while the movement of the piston is translated into pivotal movement of the sample arm to position the inlet at a desired level within the fluid source. Fluid is drawn up the fluid conduit to the autosampler. The motorized actuator is repeatedly controlled to position the inlet of the sample arm at various levels within the fluid source to collect multiple samples.

In accordance with another embodiment a fluid collection system includes an autosampler and an auxiliary sampling device. The auxiliary sampling device includes a support frame a motorized actuator a sample arm and a cable and pulley mechanism. The motorized actuator has a piston and is attached to an end of the support frame. The sample arm has an upper end disposed at an end of the support frame opposite the motorized actuator and a lower end with an inlet to receive a fluid sample from a fluid source. The cable and pulley mechanism connects the sample arm to the piston. A fluid conduit within the sample arm has a fluid intake end connected to the inlet and a fluid discharge end connected to the autosampler. The cable and pulley mechanism vertically pivots the sample arm when the motorized actuator pushes or retracts the piston to position the inlet at desired positions within the fluid source so that the autosampler collects multiple samples at various depths.

Thus the auxiliary sampling device described herein relates to the automated collection of stormwater quality samples at one or more depths in a vertical profile. The collection of stormwater quality samples at multiple depths provides a composite sample that is more representative of the entire water column.

The general field of application of the liquid sampling method assembly and auxiliary sampling device described herein is intended to be in closed structures used to convey stormwater runoff in an urban environment such as storm sewers and embodiments of the invention will be described in this context. However the invention may also be used in any water quality sampling environment where the distribution of sediment in flow can be shown to be heterogeneous and not easily corrected using established manual sampling techniques e.g. equal width increment sampling and equal depth increment sampling .

Referring to there is shown an exemplary auxiliary sampling device of the present invention. shows a side view of the auxiliary sampling device in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. shows a front view of the auxiliary sampling device . show right and left sides respectively of the auxiliary sampling device . The auxiliary sampling device has a support frame a motorized piston also referred to as a linear actuator or a ball drive actuator a rotary potentiometer and a sample arm assembly . The support frame made of a material such as aluminum or stainless steel has a top mounting plate that is mounted to the ceiling or headwall of a storm sewer such as storm sewer illustrated in . The mounting plate has a front portion and a back portion . A side plate extends downward from the left side of the mounting plate . A first leg extends downward from the side plate at the front portion of the mounting plate . A second leg extends downward from the front portion of the mounting plate opposite the first leg . Mounting brackets project outward from the sides of the front portion of the mounting plate .

The motorized piston such as the 12 VDC motorized piston manufactured by Motion Systems Corporation Eatontown N.J. has a mounting eyelet such as mounting eyelet illustrated in for attachment to the support frame and a piston that it pushes or retracts depending on DC voltage polarity. The piston preferably has an extension length of about four inches. The motorized piston is secured to the support frame using a motorized piston mount such as a threaded bolt that is inserted through the mounting eyelet and secured to the side plate .

The sample arm assembly includes a stabilizing channel a housing and a shaft . As shown in the embodiment of the stabilizing channel is constructed of two elongated flat metal plates such as aluminum or stainless steel plates that form the sides of the stabilizing channel . Each side of the stabilizing channel has an upper member with an upper end and a flange extending from the upper member . The upper end of each upper member is attached to a terminus of the piston by threading a piston mount such as a threaded bolt through holes in each of the sides of the stabilizing channel and through a hole in the piston . Each flange is attached to a potentiometer axle also referred to as a pivot member . The potentiometer axle is supported on each end by the first leg and the second leg of the support frame . One end of the potentiometer axle is connected to the potentiometer . As the piston extends or retracts it pivots the stabilizing channel around the potentiometer axle . This allows the potentiometer to measure the rotational position of the stabilizing channel as it pivots up or down. The potentiometer may be scaled or calibrated to meet the parameters for each individual field setting. The full rotational range of the stabilizing channel and thus the sample arm assembly is 90 degrees traveling from completely vertical to completely horizontal.

The housing is attached to the inside of the stabilizing channel . In the embodiment shown in the housing is a 1.5 0.625 inch elliptical stainless steel housing that is welded to the stabilizing channel . The shaft is inserted into the lower end of the housing and secured in place with fasteners such as a series of set screws that push the shaft against the housing . In the embodiment shown in the shaft is a 1.25 0.375 inch elliptical stainless steel shaft. The shaft may be adjusted up or down within the housing by adjusting the set screws so that the bottom end of the shaft reaches the floor of the storm sewer .

At the terminus of the shaft is an end cap made of an inert material such as polycarbonate with opposing intake orifices . The end cap is secured to the shaft by compression fitting. The intake orifices are formed by drilling two holes on opposing sides of the end cap so that flow moves parallel to each orifice opening. In the embodiment shown in the intake orifices are both 0.25 inch inner diameter ID holes. Water is drawn from the source through the intake orifices into a sample tube located inside the shaft . In the embodiment shown in the sample tube has a 0.375 inch inner diameter and is made of flexible polyethylene. The sample tube is connected to the end cap by insertion into a hole drilled in the top of the end cap . For example a 0.5 inch outer diameter hole may be drilled in the top of the end cap to receive the sample tube having a 0.375 inch ID. The sample tube and its connection to the end cap are contained within the shaft . The sample tube extends continuously from the end cap up through the shaft and the housing over the potentiometer axle and underneath the piston . The sample tube is then routed to an autosampler such as autosampler illustrated in . The autosampler may be manufactured by Teledyne ISCO Lincoln Nebr. for example.

The support frame is mounted to the ceiling of the storm sewer using appropriate fasteners such as concrete anchors . The concrete anchors hold the support frame to the storm sewer at the back portion of the support frame through a rear mounting hole and at the front portion of the support frame through the mounting brackets .

The PLC may be programmed to set the intake orifices to a percentage of the water depth. The vertical position of the intake orifices is determined using a 5 order polynomial scaled to represent water depth as a function of voltage. To calibrate the potentiometer to site conditions a user directs the potentiometer to move to a target position manually. Once the sample arm assembly has moved to that position the depth of the intake orifices above the floor of the storm sewer is measured. This process is repeated for multiple target positions until a sufficient number of data points has been determined to develop a polynomial regression. Between five and ten data points are preferably determined.

The depth of water is measured by an acoustic velocity sensor or similar device. The acoustic velocity sensor such as an acoustic velocity sensor manufactured by Teledyne ISCO Lincoln Nebr. is a low profile sensor that is mounted to the floor of the storm sewer . An attached cable is routed up from the acoustic velocity sensor to the PLC . Upon initiation of a stormwater quality sample the PLC uses the instantaneous water depth measured by the acoustic velocity sensor to compute a target voltage using the 5 order polynomial. The PLC then activates the motorized piston to move the piston forward or backward until the potentiometer reaches the target voltage. For example if the target sample position is set to be 50 of an actual water depth of 0.5 feet then the PLC will activate the motorized piston until the potentiometer reads the voltage representing 0.25 feet.

Thus the motorized piston rotates the sample arm assembly to any vertical depth within the storm sewer . Once the PLC determines that the potentiometer has reached the target voltage the PLC controls the autosampler to operate with normal purge withdraw cycles to collect a stormwater quality sample and deposit it in one or more storage containers. Once the sample has been acquired the sample arm assembly either moves to a new position for collection of another sample or fully retracts to the horizontal position which removes the sample arm assembly from the flow path. Any debris that may have accumulated on the sample arm assembly while acquiring a sample is cleared away by water discharging past the sample arm assembly as it retracts into the horizontal position.

The back of a motorized actuator such as the 12 VDC linear motorized actuator with a piston having an extension length of about four inches manufactured by Firgelli Automations Bellingham Wash. with a piston and an internal potentiometer is secured to the secondary support frame at the rear end using for example a clevis mounting bracket and a threaded bolt or locking pin . The front of the motorized actuator is secured to the secondary support frame for example using a fitted sleeve welded to the secondary support frame . The motorized actuator pushes or retracts the piston depending on DC voltage polarity.

A cable and pulley mechanism is used to rotate a sample arm . The cable and pulley mechanism includes tensioners and cables and small pulleys and and large pulleys and . The small pulleys and have diameters of about 0.625 inches and the large pulleys and have diameters of about 2.546 inches. The cable and pulley mechanism is attached to the terminus of the piston using a pin inserted through a hole at the terminus of the piston . The tensioners and are attached to the pin on either side of the terminus of the piston and the cables and are attached respectively to the tensioners and . A mounting bracket is attached to the secondary support frame near the terminus of the motorized actuator . The small pulley is attached to the mounting bracket using a pin . Two mounting brackets and are attached to the secondary support frame at the front end . The pulleys and are attached respectively to the terminus of each mounting bracket and using pins and . The small pulley is attached to the mounting bracket beneath the large pulley using a pin . All of the pulleys brackets and pins are made of a material such as aluminum. The cables and are made of a material such as stainless steel.

A compression sleeve made of a material such as plastic and having an L shaped member and an accompanying locking plate is secured between the two large pulleys and using fasteners such as stainless steel screws . The L shaped member and the locking plate fit around an upper end of the sample arm to lock the sample arm securely in place by compression with fasteners such as set screws . This allows the sample arm to be easily adjusted up or down to reach the floor of the storm sewer when in a vertical position. As the piston extends or retracts the cables and move around the small pulleys and and the large pulleys and to rotate the sample arm up or down within a range of about 0 to about 170 degrees. The potentiometer internalized within the motorized actuator measures the rotational position of the sample arm as it pivots up or down.

The end cap made of a material such as polycarbonate has opposing intake orifices . The end cap is secured to the sample tube as well as the shaft by friction fit. The intake orifices are formed by drilling two holes on opposing sides of the end cap so that flow moves parallel to each orifice opening . In the embodiment of the intake orifices are both 0.25 inch ID holes. Water is withdrawn from the source through the intake orifices up into the sample tube . The upper end of the sample tube extending beyond the compression sleeve attaches to a transfer tube not shown which is routed to the autosampler . The transfer tube has an inner diameter of about 0.375 inches and is made of a material such as polyethylene.

The position of the intake orifices is controlled by the PLC device as described above. The potentiometer operating as a positional sensor may be scaled to meet the parameters for each individual field setting. The full range of the sample arm is about 170 degrees traveling from completely horizontal in the downstream direction to near horizontal in the upstream direction. The exact vertical position of the intake orifices is determined using a 5 order polynomial scaled to represent water depth as a function of voltage as described above.

Upon initiation of a stormwater quality sample the motorized actuator rotates the sample arm from its resting horizontal position to any vertical depth in the storm sewer . The autosampler then operates with normal purge withdraw cycles to collect a stormwater quality sample. Once the sample has been acquired the sample arm fully retracts back to the horizontal position which removes the sample arm from the flow path. Water discharging past the sample arm as it retracts into the horizontal position clears away any debris that may have accumulated on the sample arm while acquiring the sample.

As discussed above the inventors have demonstrated that stormwater quality samples collected from the lower middle and upper zones of flow in a storm sewer have sediment concentrations and particle sizes that are vertically stratified decreasing with increasing distance from the pipe invert. Use of a fixed point sample intake located near the bottom of a storm sewer can overestimate concentrations of suspended sediment since particles with a high specific density tend to travel along the pipe floor especially in less turbulent flow which is a condition commonly found in storm sewers. Limitations associated with fixed point autosamplers can be overcome by positioning the sample intake orifice such that multiple aliquots are collected throughout the vertical profile of the water column. Integration of these zones into a single composite stormwater quality sample can produce sediment and sediment associated constituent concentrations that are more representative of the average condition. Additionally securing the sample tubing along the pipe wall can create a barrier to flow causing coarse particles to potentially settle out of suspension thus causing a zone of sediment enrichment near the sample intake. This impediment is eliminated when using the auxiliary sampling device described herein since it has a small footprint in the flow path while temporarily collecting a sample before fully retracting back to the horizontal position.

From the description above a number of advantages of the auxiliary sampling device become evident. These advantages include the following 

 a the auxiliary sampling device allows sample acquisition from one or more points in the water column in a pipe 

 b the auxiliary sampling device is fully retractable and self cleaning which reduces the potential of becoming fouled with debris 

 c the auxiliary sampling device does not interfere with the natural hydrology of the conveyance because it is fully retractable to a horizontal position 

 d the auxiliary sampling device is controllable via datalogger or other programming logic control device 

 e the auxiliary sampling device does not rely on mixing of sediment in flow because samples are taken at multiple depths to provide a composite sample that is more representative of the entire water column and

 f the auxiliary sampling device is scalable to fit a variety of pipe diameters or site specific conditions.

Accordingly the auxiliary sampling device described herein provides for the collection of stormwater quality samples from one or multiple points in the water column. The integration of samples from the entire water column rather than from a single fixed point results in a more accurate representation of stormwater borne solids.

Thus it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that modifications and variations of the present invention are possible without departing from the principles and spirit of the invention the scope of which is defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

The following bibliography provides citations to the references cited in the above text. The references are provided merely to clarify the description of the present invention and citation of a reference either in the bibliography below or in the specification above is not an admission that any such reference is prior art to the invention described herein.

