---

title: Contingent payment system
abstract: A method for providing contingent payments includes receiving, from a first user through a user device over a network, a contingent payment request. The contingent payment request is stored in a database. A contingent payment intent is provided on a user profile that is associated with the first user. The user profile is monitored. When it is determined that at least one contingent payment factor in the contingent payment request has been satisfied by a second user, funds are transferred from a user account associated with the first user to a merchant account in order to purchase a first product that is associated with the contingent payment request. In an embodiment, the second user may provide a coupon on the user profile that satisfies the at least one contingent payment factor and results in the purchase of the first product using the user account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08595108&OS=08595108&RS=08595108
owner: Ebay Inc.
number: 08595108
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120322
---
The present invention generally relates to online and or mobile payments and more particularly to a contingent payment system.

More and more consumers are purchasing items and services over electronic networks such as for example the Internet. Consumers routinely purchase products and services from merchants and individuals alike. The transactions may take place directly between a conventional or on line merchant or retailer and the consumer and payment is typically made by entering credit card or other financial information. Transactions may also take place with the aid of an on line or mobile payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. Such payment service providers can make transactions easier and safer for the parties involved. Purchasing with the assistance of a payment service provider from the convenience of virtually anywhere using a mobile device is one main reason why online and mobile purchases are growing very quickly.

Conventionally payers making purchases using online payment systems have been required to search for the product they wish to purchase and upon finding that product at a price are willing to pay complete the purchase of the product at that price immediately. However some payers may only wish to make certain purchases based upon a number of factors that may or may not occur in the future. For example a payer may want to purchase a product but the payer may not be willing to purchase that product at the price that product is currently being offered may not wish to purchase that product for a certain amount of time may only want to purchase that product in response to a particular outcome of an event occurring combinations thereof and or a variety of other contingencies know in the art. Traditionally such payers must personally monitor the factors that figure into their decision for making a purchase in order to attempt to complete the purchase according to their desires. Making purchases in such a manner can be so time consuming for the payer that in many situations the desired purchase may simply not be possible resulting in dissatisfied payers and lost sales for merchants.

According to one embodiment a method for providing a contingent payment includes receiving contingent payment request from a user and in response providing an associated contingent payment intent on a user profile of the user. The user profile is then monitored to determine whether at least one contingent payment factor associated with the contingent payment request is satisfied. When the at least one contingent payment factor is satisfied funds are transferred from a user account of the user to purchase a product that is associated with the contingent payment request.

In an embodiment a user may wish to purchase a product in the event that one or more contingent payment factors occur. Contingent payment factors may include a price at which the product may be purchased being at most a desired price a predetermined event occurring another product being purchased etc. The user provides the one or more contingent payment factors in a contingent payment request which is stored in a database. An associated contingent payment intent is provided on a user profile of the user that includes an indication that the user wishes to purchase the product and may include some or all of the contingent payment factors. The user profile is monitored to determine whether a coupon is provided on the user profile that allows the product to be purchased at or below the desired price. In addition the product may be monitored to determine whether the price drops to at most the desired price and events included in the contingent payment factors may be monitored to determine whether they occur. When one or more of the contingent payment factors are satisfied the product will be purchased automatically for the user using a user account associated with the user.

As a result a user may create contingent payment requests that are carried out automatically based on one or more contingent payment factors being satisfied. This may be particularly useful when the user is willing to wait to purchase the product in order to be able to purchase the product at a better price and or purchase the product in response to a particular event or the purchase of another product.

These and other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying figures.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure provides a system and method for providing contingent payments. A user provides a contingent payment request associated with a product and including one or more contingent payment factors. The contingent payment request is stored in a database and the receipt of the contingent payment request causes a contingent payment intent to be provided on a user profile associated with the user. The user profile is monitored to determine whether any or all of the one or more contingent payment factors associated with the contingent payment request are satisfied and if so funds are transferred from the user account to purchase the product. The system and method allow a user to have a product purchased for them automatically in response to the product becoming available for a desired price a particular event occurring an associated product being purchased a variety of other contingent payment factors and or combinations thereof.

Referring now to a method for providing contingent payments is illustrated. In the embodiment of the method described below an account provider provides an user with a user account and the user may use the user account to fund payments for purchases made from merchants. In another embodiment a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. assists in the making of payments from the user to the merchant by transferring funds from the user account to a merchant account of the merchant. However these embodiments are meant to be merely exemplary and one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of modifications may be made to the contingent payment system discussed herein without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Furthermore one of skill in the art will recognize that any of the merchant payment service provider and or the account provider may provide for the contingent payments from the user account as is discussed below.

The method begins at block where a contingent payment request is received from a user. In an embodiment a user having a user device may access a product page as shown in over a network e.g. the Internet by connecting to an merchant device of the merchant. As is known in the art the merchant may use a merchant device and or a third party device to provide a website having a plurality of web pages that are similar to the product page in order to allow users to purchase products over the network. In the illustrated embodiment the product page includes a product identification a product illustration a product description and a purchase product button . The product page also includes a contingent purchase selector that the user may select in order to provide a contingent payment request for the product associated with the product page . At block the user selects the contingent payment selector and then selects the purchase product button in order to being the provision of a contingent payment request.

Referring now to upon selection of the contingent payment selector and the purchase product button by the user the user device is provided with a first contingent payment request web page by the contingent payment system provider device over the network. In some embodiments the contingent payment system is provided by the merchant and the merchant device provides the contingent payment request web pages discussed herein to the user device over the network. In some embodiments the contingent payment system is provided by the payment service provider and the payment service provider device provides the contingent payment request web pages discussed herein to the user device over the network e.g. selection of the contingent payment selector and the purchase product button transfers the connection of the user device from the merchant device to the payment service provider device . In some embodiments the contingent payment system is provided by the account provider and the account provider device provides the contingent payment request web pages discussed herein to the user device over the network e.g. selection of the contingent payment selector and the purchase product button transfers the connection of the user device from the merchant device to the account provider device . Thus in the description below the contingent payment system provider and associated contingent payment system provider device may refer to any of the above entities and their devices along with a variety of other entities known in the art.

The first contingent payment request web page includes an instruction to provide one or more contingent payment factors for the contingent payment request for the product associated with the product identification along with a price based contingent payment factor selector an event based contingent payment factor selector and an associated purchases based contingent payment factor selector . The first contingent payment request web page also includes a done button that allows the user to indicate that all the desired contingent payment factors have been provided for the contingent payment request. While in the embodiment illustrated and described below the contingent payment factors include price based event based and associated purchase based factors one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of other contingent payment factors will fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to in response to the user selecting the price based contingent payment factor selector a second contingent payment request web page is provided by the contingent payment system provider device to the user device over the network. The second contingent payment request web page includes the instruction the price based contingent payment factor selector the event based contingent payment factor selector the associated purchases based contingent payment factor selector and the done button described above with reference to . However in response to the user selection of the price based contingent payment factor selector a plurality of contingent factor details and are provided. The contingent factor detail allows the user to provide a desired price at or below which the user wishes to purchase the product. The contingent factor detail allows the user to provide a desired percentage of the current price at or below which the user wishes to purchase the product. In some embodiments a current price of the product may be retrieved e.g. from the product web page after a search for the prices of the product from a plurality of merchants to determine the lowest current price etc. and displayed adjacent the contingent factor detail . The contingent factor detail allows the user to provide a desired percentage of the average price at or below which the user wishes to purchase the product. In some embodiments an average price of the product may be retrieved e.g. after a search for the prices of the product from a plurality of merchants which may then be used to calculate an average price and displayed adjacent the contingent factor detail . While a plurality contingent factor details associated with the price based contingent payment factor selector have been illustrated and described one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of contingent factor details for a price based contingent payment factor will fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to in response to the user selecting the event based contingent payment factor selector a third contingent payment request web page is provided by the contingent payment system provider device to the user device over the network. The third contingent payment request web page includes the instruction the price based contingent payment factor selector the event based contingent payment factor selector the associated purchases based contingent payment factor selector and the done button described above with reference to . However in response to the user selection of the event based contingent payment factor selector a plurality of contingent factor details and are provided. The contingent factor detail allows the user to provide a date at or after which the user wishes to purchase the product. The contingent factor detail allows the user to provide an event which upon the occurrence of the event the user wishes to purchase the product. While a plurality contingent factor details associated with the event based contingent payment factor selector have been illustrated and described one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of contingent factor details for an event based contingent payment factor will fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to in response to the user selecting the associated purchase based contingent payment factor selector a fourth contingent payment request web page is provided by the contingent payment system provider device to the user device over the network. The fourth contingent payment request web page includes the instruction the price based contingent payment factor selector the event based contingent payment factor selector the associated purchases based contingent payment factor selector and the done button described above with reference to . However in response to the user selection of the associated purchase based contingent payment factor selector a contingent factor detail is provided. The contingent factor detail allows the user to provide a product which the user wishes to purchase if the product for which the contingent purchase request is being made is purchased. While the contingent factor detail is illustrated and described as allowing a user to purchase a second product in response to a contingent purchase request of a first product being executed other embodiments may include a contingent product request that request the purchase of a product in response to the detection of the purchase of another product. For example the product web page may be associated with a product e.g. nails that the user only wishes to purchase in the event the user purchases another product e.g. a hammer and the contingent factor detail may allow the user to set up a contingent payment request that will cause the contingent payment system provider device to monitor of all purchases by the user until the associated product is purchased resulting in the purchase of the contingent product discussed in further detail below. While a contingent factor detail associated with the associated product based contingent payment factor selector has been illustrated and described one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of contingent factor details for an associated product based contingent payment factor will fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to in response to the user selecting the done button on any of the second contingent payment request web page the third contingent payment request web page and the fourth contingent payment request web page after providing at least one contingent payment detail for a contingent payment factor a confirmation web page is provided by the contingent payment system provider device to the user device over the network. The confirmation web page includes a confirmation that the product associated with the product identification will be purchased in response to the satisfaction of a plurality of contingent payment factors and .

In the illustrated embodiment the user has provided the contingent payment factors and to request that the product be purchased if either the price of the product associated with the product identification drops below 50 or drops below 30 of its current average price and if the New York Giants football team win the Super Bowl. In an embodiment the logical operators used with the contingent payment factors may be assumed by the contingent payment system e.g. multiple selection of contingent payment details for a particular contingent payment factor may result in a logical OR operator as illustrated and or provided by the user e.g. contingent payment details for different contingent payment factors may require the selection of a logical operator such as the AND operator in the illustrated embodiment or may be automatically provided as a default that may then be modified by the user. In the illustrated embodiment the user has also provided the contingent payment factors to request that a product associated with an identification be purchased in response to the purchase of the product associated with the product identification e.g. the product for which the contingent purchase is being made in the illustrated embodiment. The confirmation web page includes a confirm button that the user may select if the information displayed on the confirmation web page is correct which will result in the submission of the contingent payment request from the user device to the contingent payment system provider device over the network. In response to the user selecting the confirm button on the confirmation web page the contingent payment system provider device may associate the contingent payment request with the user and store the contingent payment request in a database.

Referring now to the method proceeds to block where a contingent payment intent is provided on a user profile associated with the user. illustrates a user profile web page . In an embodiment the user profile web page is provided for the user by a social network provider device over a network. As is know in the art the social network provider device provides user profiles for a plurality of users and allows the plurality of users to comment submit content and otherwise post information to each others user profiles. The user provide web page includes a posting section e.g. a wall . At block of the method in response to receiving the contingent payment request from the user in block of the method the contingent payment system provider device provides a contingent payment intent on the user profile. For example the contingent payment system provider device may send the contingent payment intent over the network to the social network provider device and the social network provider device will then provide the continent payment intent in the posting section of the user profile web page . In an embodiment a link between the contingent payment system provider device and the social network provider device may cause the automatic provision of the contingent payment intent on the user provider webpage . As can be seen in the illustrated embodiment the contingent payment intent indicates that the user associated with the user profile web page wishes to purchase the product associated with the product identification if the price of the product is below 50. While a single contingent payment factor is illustrated as being provided in the contingent payment intent any or all of the contingent payment factors provided by the user in the method may be included in the contingent payment intent . Furthermore web links to the product associated with the product identification may be provided as well.

While a contingent payment intent is illustrated and described as being provided on the user profile web page the contingent payment intent may be provided on a group or other profile without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example a group of users may share a group profile and contingent payment requests from any of those users may result in contingent payment intents to be provided on the group profile in substantially the same manner as described above for the user profile.

The method then proceeds to block where it is determined that contingent payment factors in the contingent payment request have been satisfied. In an embodiment the contingent payment system provider may monitor the user profile the product web page a plurality of merchant websites that include web pages selling the product associated with the product identification news websites a calendar and or a variety of other information sources known in the art to determine whether the contingent payment factors associated with the contingent payment request received in block of the method have been satisfied. A number of examples will now be provided to illustrate the monitoring of contingent payments factors in different embodiments of the method .

In one example the contingent payment system provider device may monitor the user profile over the network through the social network provider device and determine whether another user i.e. a user other than the user associated with the user profile web page has provided a response to the contingent payment intent that satisfies the contingent payment factors in the contingent payment request. The user profile web page illustrated in includes a contingent payment intent response provided by a user other than the user associated with the user profile web page e.g. a friend user of the user associated with the user profile web page . In an embodiment the contingent payment intent response is not provided by a merchant e.g. it is provided by a friend user of the user that is a person rather than a business selling the product . In the embodiment illustrated in the user associated with the user profile web page has set up a contingent payment request according to the method that includes a request to purchase a product associated with the product identifier if the price of that product is below 50.00 and the friend user has provided the contingent payment intent response that includes a coupon to buy the product for 42.99 e.g. a coupon code a web link to a coupon etc. . At block of the method the contingent payment system provider device monitors the user profile web page over the network through the social network provider device for the posting of contingent payment intent responses to determine if any satisfy the contingent payment factors in the content payment request. Thus at block in the embodiment illustrated in the contingent payment system provider device will detect the posting of the contingent payment intent response and determine that it satisfies the contingent payment factor i.e. the price of the product associated with the product identifier being below 50 . Detection of a satisfied contingent payment factor may include the contingent payment system provider device confirming the validity of and pricing savings associated with a coupon e.g. by contacting the merchant device of the merchant that issued the coupon over the network. 

In another example the user associated with the user profile web page may have set up a contingent payment request according to the method that includes a request to purchase a product e.g. a shirt if the price of that product is below 50 of the average price of the product and the New York Giants football team wins the Super Bowl. In some embodiments that contingent payment request may result in a contingent payment intent being posted to the user profile web page that includes some or all of the contingent payment factors associated with the contingent payment request e.g. User wants to purchase product X if the New York Giants win the Super Bowl and the price is discounted 50 . At block the contingent payment system provider device may monitor news websites sports websites and other information sources to determine whether the New York Giants football team win the Super Bowl. In response to the determining that the New York Giants football team has won the Super Bowl the contingent payment system provider device may retrieve the prices e.g. retail prices for the product from a plurality of merchant websites to determine the average price of the product and then determine whether any of the merchant websites are offering the product for a price that is 50 below that average price. In an embodiment the contingent payment system provider device may continue to monitor the merchant websites for a predetermined time period e.g. 4 weeks to determine whether the product is being offered by a merchant for a price that is 50 below the average price of the product across a plurality of merchant websites. Furthermore the contingent payment system provider device may also monitor the posting of the contingent payment intent responses on the user profile web page discussed above to determine whether any of them allow the purchase of the product at a price that is below 50 of the average price of the product. Thus at block of the method the contingent payment system provider device may determine that the contingent payment factors for the contingent payment request have been satisfied by determining that the New York Giants have won the Super Bowl and either a merchant website is offering the product for a price that is 50 below the average price of the product or a friend user has provided a coupon on the user profile of the user that reduces the price of the product to 50 of the current average price.

Furthermore in this example the user may have provided an additional contingent payment factor that instructs the contingent payment system provider device to purchase a second product e.g. a hat in the event that the first product is purchased. Thus at block of the method in determining that the contingent payment factors for the contingent payment request for the first product e.g. the shirt have been satisfied the contingent payment system provider device may then determine that the contingent payment factors for the second product e.g. the hat have been satisfied as well.

In other examples the user may provide the contingent payment request with a variety of different contingent payment factors such as for example contingent payment factors that prevent the purchase before a desired date e.g. using the contingent factor detail . Furthermore the user may provide the contingent payment request with a variety of preferences such as for example a restriction to only accept contingent payment intent responses from a subset of user friends of the user.

Furthermore the contingent payment system provider device may contact the user that provided the contingent payment request in the event that a contingent payment intent response is within a threshold amount of a contingent payment factor. For example if a user provides a contingent payment request with a contingent payment factor that a product be purchased if the price is below 100 and a user friend posts a contingent payment intent response that includes a coupon that allows the purchase of the product for 105 the contingent payment system provider device may inform the user of the coupon and ask whether the user would like to purchase the product for the price that is slightly above the price designated in their contingent payment request factor. If the user responds with an instruction to purchase the product for that price e.g. 105 instead of the requested 100 the contingent payment system provider device will determine that the contingent payment factor has been satisfied. In addition the contingent payment system provider device may contact the user that provided the contingent payment request in the event that a contingent payment request has not been satisfied in a predetermined amount of time. For example if a contingent payment request has not been satisfied within a month the contingent payment system provider device may contact the user that provided the contingent payment request to determine whether that user would like to proceed with purchasing the product at a current price cancel the contingent payment request or continue with the contingent payment request.

While a plurality of examples have been provided describing specific contingent payment requests and how those contingent payment requests may be satisfied one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of different contingent payments requests and methods for satisfying those contingent payment requests and determining whether they have been satisfied will fall within the scope of the present disclosure. In some embodiments contingent payment requests may be set up to reoccur or exist indefinitely. For example a user may set up a contingent payment request to occur during predetermined time periods e.g. seasonally until cancelled by the user every month for one week etc. Furthermore such contingent payment requests may reoccur even if a previous contingent payment request was satisfied e.g. a user may be on the lookout for deals for a particular item and may set up a contingent payment request to purchase that item whenever it is available at a predetermined price. 

The method then proceeds to block where funds are transferred from the user to the merchant to make the purchase associated with the contingent payment request. In an embodiment in response to determining that the contingent payment factors associated with the contingent payment request have been satisfied the contingent payment system provider device will cause funds to be automatically from a user account e.g. without any interaction with the user other than the provision of the contingent payment request associated with the user that provided the contingent payment request to a merchant account of the merchant that is selling the product that satisfied at least one of the contingent payment factors in the contingent payment request e.g. at a price that is below an amount specified in a contingent payment factor . In some embodiments the contingent payment system is provided by the merchant and the merchant device may use user account information provided by the user e.g. during the provision of the contingent payment request to contact an account provider device over a network and have funds transferred from the user account to a merchant account. In some embodiments the contingent payment system is provided by the payment service provider and the payment service provider device provides user account information provided by the user e.g. in setting up an account provided by the payment service provider to contact an account provider device over a network and have funds transferred from the user account to a merchant account. In some embodiments the contingent payment system is provided by the account provider and the account provider device transfers funds from the user account provided by the account provider to a merchant account.

The method then proceeds to block where the user that provided the contingent payment request is associated with at least one other user based on the satisfied contingency. In an embodiment the contingent payment request may have been satisfied by the provision of a contingent payment intent response by a friend user of the user that provided the contingent payment request. In such an embodiment the friend user and the user that provided the contingent payment request are then associated with each other in a database by the contingent payment system provider device. By associating users based on satisfied contingent payment requests the contingent payment system device may build a database of users that are more likely to satisfy contingent payment requests for each other e.g. relative to users than have never or rarely satisfy each others contingent payment requests . The contingent payment system provider may then solicit coupons from merchants and distribute those coupons to users based on their associations with other users and their previous willingness to satisfy contingent payment requests. While a few examples of the use of the association of users that satisfy contingent payment requests with other users have been provided one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of benefits may be realized by associating users with other users based on the satisfaction of contingent payment requests.

Thus a system and method for providing contingent payments has been described that allows a user to provide a request to purchase a product based on one or more contingencies. When a contingent payment system provider device determines that the contingencies have been satisfied the product is then automatically purchased. In some embodiments users other than the user that provided the request may provide coupons for the product that satisfy the contingencies such that the product is purchased for the user. Users that provide such coupons may then be linked with the users whose requests were satisfied by those coupons in order to build a user association database that provides a group of product purchasing users to whom coupons and or other deals may be forwarded from merchants.

Referring now to an embodiment of a networked system used in the contingent payment system described above is illustrated. The networked system includes a plurality of user devices a plurality of merchant devices a payment service provider device an account holder device and a social network provider device in communication over a network . Any of the user devices may be the user device discussed above. The merchant devices may be the merchant devices discussed above and may be operated by the merchants discussed above. The payment service provider device may be the payment service provider devices discussed above and may be operated by a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. The account provider device may be the account provider devices discussed above and may be operated by the account providers discussed above such as for example credit card account providers bank account providers savings account providers and a variety of other account providers known in the art. The social network provider device may be the social network provider device discussed above and may be operated by the social network provider discussed above.

The user devices merchant devices payment service provider device account provider device and social network provider device may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable mediums such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of the system and or accessible over the network .

The network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

The user device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the user device may be implemented as a personal computer of a user in communication with the Internet. In other embodiments the user device may be a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices.

The user device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit the payer to browse information available over the network . For example in one embodiment the browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet.

The user device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide user side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by the payer. In one embodiment the toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with the browser application.

The user device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to the user device . In particular the other applications may include a payment application for payments assisted by a payment service provider through the payment service provider device . The other applications may also include security applications for implementing user side security features programmatic user applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or other types of applications. Email and or text applications may also be included which allow the payer to send and receive emails and or text messages through the network . The user device includes one or more user and or device identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the browser application identifiers associated with hardware of the user device or other appropriate identifiers such as a phone number. In one embodiment the user identifier may be used by the merchant device the payment service provider device and or account provider device to associate the user with a particular account as further described herein.

The merchant device may be maintained for example by a conventional or on line merchant conventional or digital goods seller individual seller and or application developer offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received conventionally or over the network . In this regard the merchant device may include a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by the payer.

The merchant device also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by the payer of items. The checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from the user through the user device the account provider through the account provider device and or from the payment service provider through the payment service provider device over the network .

Referring now to an embodiment of a computer system suitable for implementing for example the user device the merchant device the payment service provider device the account provider device and or the social network provider device is illustrated. It should be appreciated that other devices utilized by users merchants payment service providers account providers and social network providers in the payment system discussed above may be implemented as the computer system in a manner as follows.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard keypad or virtual keyboard a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer or trackball and or a location determination component e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device as illustrated a cell tower triangulation device and or a variety of other location determination devices known in the art. In one implementation the disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure the computer system performs specific operations by the processor executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in the memory component such as described herein with respect to the user device the merchant device s the payment service provider device the account provider device s and or the social network provider device . Such instructions may be read into the system memory component from another computer readable medium such as the static storage component or the disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as the disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as the system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise the bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read. In one embodiment the computer readable media is non transitory.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by the computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of the computer systems coupled by a communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

The computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through the communication link and the network interface component . The network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via the communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Referring now to an embodiment of a contingent payment system provider device is illustrated. In an embodiment the device may be the merchant device the payment service provider device and or the account holder device . The device includes a communication engine that is coupled to the network and to an contingent payment engine that is coupled to a user database and a contingent payments database . The communication engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that allows the device to send and receive information over the network . The contingent payment engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that is operable to receive contingent payment requests store them and associate them with users in the databases and monitor for the satisfaction of contingent payment requests initiate and or complete the transfer of funds from user accounts to merchant accounts associate users based on satisfied contingent payment request and or provide any of the other functionality that is discussed above. While the databases and has been illustrated as located in the contingent payment system provider device one of skill in the art will recognize that they may be connected to the contingent payment engine through the network without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example the above embodiments have focused on users and merchants however a user or consumer can pay or otherwise interact with any type of recipient including charities and individuals. The payment does not have to involve a purchase but may be a loan a charitable contribution a gift etc. Thus merchant as used herein can also include charities individuals and any other entity or person receiving a payment from a user. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

