---

title: Apparatus and methods for providing power savings on mobile devices
abstract: Various embodiments for providing enhanced power savings in mobile computing devices are described. In one or more embodiments, a mobile computing device may include a motion sensor to detect when the device is in motion. The mobile computing device may include a radio processor that may select from among several signal search procedures based on whether the device is in motion, and whether a signal is detectable and adequate. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08509768&OS=08509768&RS=08509768
owner: Palm, Inc.
number: 08509768
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120427
---
This application is a continuation of and claims a priority filing date to pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 642 417 filed Dec. 18 2009 entitled APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING POWER SAVINGS ON MOBILE DEVICES .

A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may provide voice and data communication functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. In order to provide communication functionality the device may need to search for and maintain wireless signal connections. Searching for wireless signals may consume battery power. Accordingly there may be a need for an improved apparatus and methods for providing enhanced power savings while maintaining communication services.

Various embodiments are directed to providing enhanced power savings on mobile devices in particular battery power savings. In one or more embodiments a mobile computing device may include a motion sensor. The mobile computing device may search for and maintain wireless connections differently depending on whether the device is in motion or stationary.

The mobile computing device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1 RTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile computing device may comprise a dual or multi processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although some embodiments may be described as comprising a dual processor architecture for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that the mobile computing device may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors consistent with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the host processor implemented as a CPU or general purpose processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM UMTS and or CDMA system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1 RTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth. In some embodiments the transceiver module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

The mobile computing device may comprise a motion sensor in communication with radio processor over bus . Motion sensor may comprise for example one or more accelerometers such as but not limited to a micro electrical mechanical systems MEMS based accelerometer a two axis accelerometer or a three axis accelerometer. In an embodiment motion sensor may detect motion without the use of cellular or radio signals which may be unavailable. Motion sensor may detect when the mobile computing device is in motion such as when the device operator is walking or riding in a vehicle. Motion sensor may inform radio processor when it detects motion. Radio processor may select a first signal search and or maintenance procedure when the device is in motion and a second signal search and or maintenance procedure when the device is stationary. The embodiments are not limited to these examples.

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and application programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device .

System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. The mobile computing device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Palm webOS Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

As shown in the mobile computing device may comprise or implement several applications . The applications may comprise for example a telephone application such as a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application and so forth. The applications may further comprise a voicemail application an instant messaging application an e mail application and other applications . Applications generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. Examples of other applications may include without limitation one or more messaging applications e.g. telephone voicemail facsimile e mail IM SMS MMS video conferencing a web browser application personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

The mobile computing device may comprise signal search procedures which may be stored for example in memory or in memory . Signal search procedures may comprise different algorithms for searching for and maintaining radio and wireless signals. Different algorithms may apply when the device is stationary and when it is in motion. The algorithms may alter the behavior of the radio processor in order to conserve battery power.

In block radio processor may determine whether a wireless signal is detectable and if so whether the detected wireless signal is adequate. The adequacy of a wireless signal may be determined by various metrics for example by a signal strength or reliability measure being higher than some defined threshold. In an embodiment the adequacy of multiple wireless signals may be determined.

In block when the device is not in motion radio processor may select from among several signal search procedures according to whether the wireless signal is detectable and or adequate.

In block when the device is in motion radio processor may select from among several other signal search procedures according to whether the wireless signal is detectable and or adequate.

In block radio processor determines whether the mobile computing device is in motion. In an embodiment radio processor may poll motion sensor . In other embodiments motion sensor may set a flag when motion is detected and may change the flag when motion is no longer detected or may transmit periodic motion status indications to radio processor .

If the device is in motion in block radio processor may search for a signal for a specified time period. In an embodiment radio processor may search in its current location and also in neighboring cells. In an embodiment radio processor may use a UOOS or OOS back off algorithm.

In block if no signal is found in the specified time period radio processor may suspend searching for the signal for another specified time period block .

In block if a signal is found in the specified time period radio processor may proceed to block in block .

If the device is not in motion at block then the radio processor may stop searching for a signal until motion is detected block .

Logic flow may be applied on a signal by signal basis. For example if a short range wireless network e.g. BlueTooth signal is sufficient but the larger wireless network system signal e.g. a WLAN is not detectable logic flow may only apply to the larger wireless network system signal search.

In block radio processor determines whether the mobile computing device is in motion as described above regarding block in .

In block radio processor may determine whether the signal strength is adequate. Signal strength adequacy may be measured for example by comparing the strength to some threshold.

If the signal strength is adequate then in block radio processor may maintain the current connection while searching neighboring signals. If a better signal is found then radio processor may jump to that better signal.

If the signal strength is not adequate then in block radio processor may search for a better signal periodically at time intervals of t. If a better signal is found then radio processor may jump to that better signal. Block may be repeated for as long as the device is in motion.

If at block the device is not in motion radio processor may determine in block whether the signal strength is adequate as in block .

If the signal strength is adequate at block then radio processor may stay with the current signal source at block . In this situation conventional mobile computing devices may search neighboring signals for a better signal or in preparation for a handoff which consumes battery power.

If at block the signal strength is not adequate radio processor may search for an adequate signal as in block but using a long interval t t between searches block . Further radio processor may avoid the current poor signal source in the search for some longer time interval for example 10 minutes.

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

Some of the figures may include a flow diagram. Although such figures may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an exemplary implementation of the general functionality. Further the logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

