---

title: Automated impact assessment and updates of compliance response plans pursuant to policy changes
abstract: A compliance management system is disclosed, including an analysis engine to analyze received compliance requirements. Stakeholders and relevant surveys are identified using results of the analysis. An assessment engine initiates and manages a process to assess the received compliance requirements. Results of the assessment are used to determine changes to existing policies and procedures. A workflow engine initiates and manages workflows to effect changes the policies and procedures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08645180&OS=08645180&RS=08645180
owner: SAP AG
number: 08645180
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120711
---
Unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Modern businesses are subjected to increasing numbers of regulations from governmental agencies industry associations and from within the business enterprise itself. Regulations may cover any aspect of the business enterprise such as employee concerns product safety environmental concerns financial reporting privacy issues and so on. Compliance with some regulations may be voluntary but the majority of regulations require compliance as a matter of law. Non compliance with legally mandated regulations may incur heavy financial burdens such as fines loss of business revenue loss of business opportunity law suits and so on. Accordingly large investments of time money and manpower may be expended to develop programs processes and infrastructure within the business enterprise to ensure current and ongoing compliance with regulations.

The management of compliance with regulations is made even more challenging because regulations may change over time. The changes may be incremental and gradual and at times may be significant. A typical business enterprise may have several thousands of policies procedures test plans monitoring controls throughout the enterprise to monitor compliance and respond to potential and actual occurrences of non compliance. The additional effort of assessing changes when new or updated regulations are published and then having to update the enterprise s compliance policies and procedures may impose a heavy burden to the enterprise.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous examples and specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure as defined by the claims may include some or all of the features in these examples alone or in combination with other features described below and may further include modifications and equivalents of the features and concepts described herein.

The business enterprise may include a data store comprising a collection of the compliance requirements that are applicable to the activities of the business enterprise. A set of policies and procedures may be developed to ensure compliance with the applicable compliance requirements. A data store may store these policies and procedures which are specific to the business enterprise for ensuring compliance with the applicable compliance requirements. The data stores and may be embodied in the same storage system or they may be separate storage systems. The data stores and may represent data tables in a data base system. Other configurations of data stores and are contemplated of course.

As used herein policies and procedures will be understood to refer to the policies that are developed and managed by the business enterprise to ensure compliance with applicable regulations. In addition remedial procedures proactive procedures responses controls test plans and so on for reporting monitoring and responding to matters relating to the business enterprise s compliance of applicable regulations may be collectively referred to as procedures .

The compliance management system may include an interface for receiving compliance requirements from an agency . The agency may be a governmental body e.g. federal government state government or some other local civil governing body . The agency may be an industrial association that regulates the business practices of the business enterprise . In some embodiments the agency may even be a group within the business enterprise . As explained above the compliance requirements may be in the form regulations policies goals and so on set forth by the agency .

In some embodiments the interface may serve as a portal to provide the agency with access to the compliance management system . Accordingly the interface may be a web based interface. For example the interface may be based on the simple object access protocol SOAP a representational state transfer REST data model and the like. In some embodiments the interface may actively connect to the agency e.g. a server running in the agency and download or otherwise obtain compliance requirements from the agency. In some embodiments the interface may be a computer system that any employee of the business enterprise may use to input regulations documents e.g. in a portable document format PDF . The received compliance requirements may be stored to the data store to update the business enterprise s store of compliance requirements.

The compliance manager may include an analysis engine which analyzes the received compliance requirements . The analysis engine may access the data store to retrieve earlier versions of the received compliance requirements or related compliance requirements. In accordance with the present disclosure and as will be discussed below the analysis engine may identify changes to compliance requirements compliance changes by analyzing the received compliance requirements and earlier or related compliance requirements obtained from the data store .

An assessment engine may initiate an assessment survey to determine whether changes in compliance requirements necessitate changes in policies and procedures of the business enterprise . The assessment engine may compile one or more appropriate surveys and send them to survey participants . The surveys may be used to gather information that can be used to decide whether or not the business enterprise s policies and procedures need to be changed to accommodate changes in compliance requirements. The assessment engine may also initiate a collaborative effort among meeting participants instead of or in addition to sending out surveys in order to assess the changes in compliance requirements in a collaborative setting. In some embodiments a collaborative tool may be used to convene and conduct the collaborative effort . For example the SAP StreamWork is an enterprise collaboration tool that allows real time collaboration among its participants. Other tools of course may be used such as WebEx. The assessment engine may then manage the progress of the assessment survey to its conclusion.

The assessment engine may initiate a second collaborative effort of decision makers to decide based on results of the surveys and or the first collaborative effort whether or not changes need to be made to the business enterprise s policies and procedures. The collaborative effort may identify the specific policies and procedures that need to be changed to accommodate changes in the compliance requirements.

The compliance management system may include a workflow engine . Changes to the policies and procedures may be specified as workflows. In accordance with the present disclosure the workflow engine may receive a set of workflows from the collaborative effort . The workflow engine may then initiate and manage one or more workflow activities among workflow participants to accomplish the tasks set out by the workflows . In some embodiments responses of the workflow participants may include updates to one or more portions of the policies and procedures. The workflow engine may update the data store of the business enterprise s policies and procedures at the conclusion of the workflow activities.

The compliance management system may include an internal data store to store various information that the other components of the compliance management system may use. Examples of data that may be stored in the internal data store will be described below.

The compliance management system may include a suitable user interface to allow a user e.g. the change manager to perform design time processing. For example the compliance management system may include a console that the user logs onto the compliance management system may provide a web services based interface and so on.

The design time process flow may include processing block for defining categories and keywords. In accordance with the present disclosure the different compliance requirements of the business enterprise may be categorized according to subject areas or operational groups of the business enterprise. For example federal state and local regulations may relate to general subject areas such safety in the workplace sexual harassment and so on which are not related to any one group. Accordingly there may be a category of compliance regulations called workplace safety another category called sexual harassment and so on. A human resources department may manage compliance requirements categorized under these general subject areas. Compliance requirements may be directed to specific groups or department in the business enterprise e.g. financial regulations may apply to the business enterprise s accounting department manufacturing regulations may apply to production groups in the business enterprise and so on. The categories may be defined by the change manager .

In some embodiments each defined category may be defined by described by or otherwise associated with keywords that may appear in the documents that comprise the compliance requirements. It will be understood that keywords may include word phrases in addition to individual words. The categories and their corresponding keywords may be stored in the internal data store of the compliance management system . Referring for a moment to for example the internal data store may implement a database system comprising data tables and . A category data table for example may store associations between keywords and categories.

In a processing block stakeholders may be identified and assigned or associated with the categories defined in processing block . A stakeholder refers to a person e.g. administrative person or group within the business enterprise who has some role in the administration of a given set of compliance requirements. That role may involve ensuring that the compliance requirements are met e.g. a manager type performing the actions to comply administering compliance documents and so on. A category of compliance requirements may be associated with many people and or groups within the business enterprise . People and groups within the business enterprise may be associated with several categories of compliance requirements. The associations between categories and stakeholders may be stored in the internal data store of the compliance management system . For example in a stakeholder data table may store associations between categories and stakeholders.

In a processing block assessment surveys e.g. surveys may be defined and assigned or otherwise associated with the categories defined in processing block . Each category of compliance requirements may have one or more assessment surveys. Assessment surveys may be questionnaires such a multiple choice questions fill in the blank type questions essays and so on. In accordance with the present disclosure the assessment surveys may be designed to elicit input from survey participants which can be subsequently used to make a decision on whether any of the business enterprise s policies and procedures need to be updated. The associations between categories and assessment surveys may be stored in the internal data store of the compliance management system . For example in a survey data table may store associations between categories and assessment surveys.

The discussion will now focus on the execution time process flow also shown in . In a typical usage scenario execution time processing may be triggered by the change manager . For example the change manager may be an administrative person in the business enterprise who has responsibility for managing the business enterprise s policies and procedures for complying with applicable compliance requirements. The change manager may be informed or otherwise become aware of new or updated compliance requirements that may require a review assessment of the business enterprise s current policies and procedures. In another usage scenario an agency e.g. may access the compliance management system via interface and inform the compliance management system of new or updated compliance requirements. The compliance management system may then alert the change manager of the new or updated compliance requirements for example by sending an email or otherwise contacting the change manager. In response the change manager may trigger execution time processing in the compliance management system .

In accordance with the present disclosure the compliance management system may be invoked to assess and effect any changes to relevant policies and procedures of the business enterprise that may be impacted when changes to compliance requirements occur. Likewise the compliance management system may be invoked when a new set of compliance requirements are made by an agency. Thus in addition to the business enterprise developing a corresponding new set of policies and procedures for the new compliance requirements the business enterprise may need to assess the impact of the new compliance requirements on related existing policies and procedures.

The execution time process flow may include a processing block for receiving new or updated compliance requirements. In embodiments the change manager may submit the received compliance requirements to the compliance management system or the received compliance requirements may be input from another source e.g. agency .

In a processing block the compliance management system may upload the received compliance requirements. For example compliance requirements may be received at the interface in any of several data formats such as textual data data in a spreadsheet image data as PDF document and so on. It may be practical for the compliance management system to process documents to have a common data format. Accordingly the process of uploading the received compliance requirements may include reformatting the received data to a suitable data format e.g. text data . It will be appreciated that other processing may be performed on the documents for example in order to facilitate the compliance management system in processing the received compliance requirements.

In a processing block the analysis engine may analyze the received compliance requirements. The analysis may be automatically initiated after the new or updated compliance requirements have been received and uploaded per processing blocks and . Or in some embodiments the analysis may be explicitly triggered by the change manager .

In some embodiments the analysis engine may perform a comparison between the received compliance requirements and the current compliance requirements. The analysis engine may extract or otherwise identify words and phrases contained in any differences between the received compliance requirements and current compliance requirements e.g. obtained from data store . The analysis engine may also extract words and phrases from the contents of the received compliance requirements. The words and phrases may then be matched against the keywords defined in processing block and stored in the internal data store for subsequent processing. In some embodiments the change manager may guide the analysis. For example if too many categories have been identified the analysis engine may alert the change manager who may then intervene to refine the identification of appropriate categories. If the analysis engine did not identify any categories then the change manager may be alerted to manually identify one or more appropriate categories.

Referring again to the figure shows an example of new or updated compliance requirements that have been uploaded to the compliance management system . Words and phrases identified from the contents of compliance requirements may be used to identify one or more categories. For example the words and phrases may be used to search the category data table to identify one or more categories. As further illustrates the identified categories may then be used to search the stakeholder data table and the survey data table to identify corresponding stakeholders and assessment surveys respectively.

Continuing with having identified the stakeholders and assessment surveys that correspond to the compliance requirements in processing block the assessment engine may initiate and mange an assessment survey to assess the new or updated compliance requirements. In some embodiments the assessment surveys may comprise survey forms that are sent to respective stakeholders e.g. survey participants . The stakeholder data table may include parameters for each stakeholder that informs the assessment engine how assessment surveys can be delivered to them e.g. an email address an office location etc. Parameters in the survey data table may inform the assessment engine which stakeholders should receive which assessment surveys and so on. In some embodiments the change manager may review the list of stakeholders and assessment surveys that the assessment engine had identified and make revisions if needed. The change manager may then trigger the distribution of assessment surveys to respective stakeholders . In addition to the assessment surveys additional information may be provided to each stakeholder e.g. old and new versions of the compliance requirements etc.

In some embodiments the parameters in the data tables may indicate to the assessment engine that a collaboration among certain stakeholders should be conducted. For example a particular category such as sexual harassment may be of special importance that changes in compliance requirements relating to sexual harassment require a meeting of certain stakeholders for example department heads. Alternatively the change manager may make a decision to conduct a meeting of stakeholders. Accordingly the assessment engine may invoke a collaboration tool to schedule and coordinate stakeholders to convene a survey meeting to assess the new or updated compliance requirements.

After initiating the assessment survey activity such as sending out survey forms and or arranging survey meetings the assessment engine may monitor the progress of the assessment survey. For example if surveys forms are sent out to stakeholders the assessment engine can track which stakeholders have responded to the survey forms. Likewise if a survey meeting was arranged the assessment engine can track whether or not minutes of the meeting had been submitted. The assessment engine may report to the change manager which stakeholders have and have not responded to survey forms the progress of survey meetings whether meeting minutes have been received from those survey meetings and so on. The assessment engine may determine that the assessment survey is complete for example when it has received responses from every stakeholder. In some embodiments the change manager may make the determination that the assessment survey has completed. For example if a stakeholder does not respond to a survey the assessment engine may never consider the assessment survey to be complete. However the change manager may step in and designate the assessment survey as nonetheless being complete so that the execution time process flow can proceed.

In a processing block the assessment engine may initiate and manage a decision making collaboration to 1 decide whether or not policies and procedures of the business enterprise need to be updated and 2 identify what those updates should be. For example in some embodiments decision makers e.g. may be identified from among the stakeholders identified in processing block . In other embodiments the decision makers may be manually selected by the change manager . The assessment engine may coordinate a meeting of the decision makers and supply them e.g. via email with materials needed to conduct the meeting including results the assessment survey current relevant policies and procedures and the like.

The decision makers may decide whether or not any of the relevant policies and procedures need to be updated. The decision makers may determine what changes are needed to the relevant policies and procedures and may dictate how those changes are to be implemented. A meeting minutes or other report may be produced from the meeting of the decision maker and submitted to the compliance management system . The change manager may review the submitted material and define one or more workflows based on the changes specified by the decision makers. The workflows may be submitted to the workflow engine . In some embodiments the workflows may be automated to some degree. Foe example the decision makers may make a list of policies and procedures that need to be changed. The list may constitute the workflows.

In processing block the workflow engine may trigger processing of one or more workflows for implementing changes to the business enterprise s policies and procedures as set forth by the decision makers. In some embodiments the change manager may interact with the workflow engine to develop and design suitable workflows. The workflows may specify workflow recipients and workflow tasks. The workflow tasks may be updates to the individual policy documents test plans responses control documents and the like which constitute the policies and procedures affected by the new or updated compliance requirements. The workflow recipients may be personnel in the business enterprise such as department heads managers group leaders and so on.

The workflow engine may distribute the workflows to the workflow recipients. Each workflow recipient may be given responsibility for ensuring that their assigned workflow task is completed. In some embodiments the end result of the workflows represent an update of the policies and procedures that are affected by the compliance requirements received in processing block . The updated policies and procedures may then be stored on data store thus updating the business enterprise s data store of policies and procedures. In some embodiments the workflow engine and or the change manager may conduct review process of the updated policies and procedures before storing them to data store .

A particular embodiment of the compliance management system in accordance with the present disclosure is illustrated in showing a high level block diagram of a computer system configured to operate in accordance with the present disclosure. The computer system may include a central processing unit CPU or other similar data processing component. The computer system may include various memory components. For example the memory components may include a volatile memory e.g. random access memory RAM and a data storage device . A communication interface may be provided to allow the computer system to communicate with an outside agency e.g. agency over a communication network such as a local area network LAN the Internet and so on. An internal bus may interconnect the components comprising the computer system .

The data storage device may comprise a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable program code . The computer executable program code may be executed by the CPU to cause the CPU to perform steps of the present disclosure. For example the computer executable program code may include code for the design time process flow and code for the execution time process flow. The data storage device may store data structures such as the data tables . The change manager may interact with the computer system using suitable user interface devices . They may include for example input devices such as a keyboard a keypad a mouse or other pointing device and output devices such as a display.

All systems and processes discussed herein may be embodied in program code stored on one or more non transitory computer readable media. Such media may include for example a floppy disk a CD ROM a DVD ROM a Flash drive magnetic tape and solid state Random Access Memory RAM or Read Only Memory ROM storage units. It will be appreciated that embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software. Elements described herein as communicating with one another are directly or indirectly capable of communicating over any number of different systems for transferring data including but not limited to shared memory communication a local area network a wide area network a telephone network a cellular network a fiber optic network a satellite network an infrared network a radio frequency network and any other type of network that may be used to transmit information between devices. Moreover communication between systems may proceed over any one or more transmission protocols that are or become known such as Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Internet Protocol IP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and Wireless Application Protocol WAP .

The above description illustrates various embodiments of the present disclosure along with examples of how aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented. The above examples and embodiments should not be deemed to be the only embodiments and are presented to illustrate the flexibility and advantages of the present disclosure as defined by the following claims. Based on the above disclosure and the following claims other arrangements embodiments implementations and equivalents will be evident to those skilled in the art and may be employed without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the claims.

