---

title: Methods and systems for providing a savings goal
abstract: Example embodiments describe a method and a system to control activities of a financial account. In example embodiments, a secondary account is linked to a primary account. Within the secondary account, a spending account and a savings account are established. A savings goal in the savings account of the secondary account that enables a portion of the savings account of the secondary account to be set aside is created. The savings goal includes a goal amount. An automatic purchase of a product associated with the savings goal upon the goal amount being met may be allowed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08732076&OS=08732076&RS=08732076
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08732076
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120723
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 347 934 filed Dec. 31 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 249 986 and entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS OF CONTROLLING ACTIVITIES OF FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS which claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 837 704 filed Aug. 13 2007 and entitled SPENDING AND SAVINGS SECONDARY LINKED ACCOUNTS which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 894 875 filed Mar. 14 2007 and entitled CONTROLLED SPENDING AND SAVINGS SECONDARY ACCOUNTS the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This application is also related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 110 944 entitled GRADUAL CONVERSION OF FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS filed on Apr. 28 2008.

Dependents employees business associates family members and others may have a difficult time with disciplined adherence to a budget saving for specific items in the long term appropriately prioritizing spending spending habits and money management in general. Often money is spent spontaneously such that there is often not enough money left in a budget to buy high priority items. Many are then forced to go over budget and borrow money or take out lines of credit to pay for these high priority items. In most instances paying back the funds borrowed or taken out on credit may be difficult expensive and prolonged. Existing money management systems may be too conceptual too expensive or too restrictive.

Also parents may not be able to appropriately discern motives of others that may intend to transfer funds to their children s accounts. For example predators may offer to transfer funds to young account holders as a way to gain trust from them.

Embodiments describe a method and a system to control access to funds and activities relating to a financial account using an account management module. Controlling may include spending control relating to one or more of categories and merchants.

In an example embodiment a secondary account is linked to a primary account. Within the secondary account a spending account and a savings account are established. A savings goal in the savings account of the secondary account that enables a portion of the savings account of the secondary account to be set aside is created. The savings goal includes a goal amount. An automatic purchase of a product associated with the savings goal upon the goal amount being met may be allowed.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

In example embodiments a computer system e.g. a client machine server machine etc. configured by an application may constitute a module that is configured and operates to perform certain operations as described herein below. Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and to perform certain operations described herein.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

The client machines including network based device s may include a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone a communications device a wireless telephone a land line telephone a control system a camera a scanner a television television cable a telephone with a web browser a facsimile machine a printer a pager and or a personal trusted device. The device may include a card such as a smart card a magnetic card and or a key card. The device may include a telephone or any device capable of Short Messaging Service SMS messaging multimedia messaging service MMS messaging and or generating audio tones such as dual tone multi frequency DTMF tones. The device may be browser enabled. The device may engage in an interactive message and or open communication session such as SMS electronic mail xHTML Wireless Application Protocol WAP web interactive voice response IVR and or other mobile interfaces. The communication session between a client machine and the network based system may involve multiple technology modalities e.g. the client user may engage the system via SMS and receive a responsive communication as an SMS with an embedded hyperlinked URL directing the client user s device to a WAP or web page. A hyperlinked URL may be delivered directly to the device from the application server s and may be used to access a web site or a microbrowser such as a WAP site. The device may enable mobile videophone communications digital television signals and or digital radio signals. The device may include a receiver to receive near field communications as described in more detail herein. The scanner device may include a bar code reader scanner a Radio Frequency interface System RFIS reader and or a symbol reader scanner.

At least one of the devices or may be associated with a primary account holder. At least one of the devices or may be associated with a secondary account holder. In various examples the secondary account holder may be a relative of a dependent of or a business associate of the primary account holder.

Turning specifically to the network based system an Application Program Interface API server and a web server may be coupled to and may provide programmatic interfaces to one or more application servers . The devices may use one or more of these interfaces to access the application server s .

For example the web client may access the application server s via the web interface supported by the web server . The web interface may include a web browser or any microbrowser such as xHTML or WAP. Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the application server s via the programmatic interface provided by the API server and or the web server . In an additional embodiment an application supported by one or more applications of the application server s may be downloadable to the network based device. The device s may host the interface associated with the one or more applications of the application server s . The interface on the device may be an API interface an SMS interface a web interface and or an IVR interface. Consumer wireless device platforms such as Java 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME J2SE and J2EE allow developers to use Java and a wireless toolkit to create applications and programs for the device . The J2ME interface may include an application programming interface API for the device. The application of the programmatic client may also access the Internet using for example Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW .

The device application executed on the client machine may access the application server s via the web interface of the web server. The application may be selected on the device and launched in a background. The application may additionally or alternatively access the server s via the programmatic interface of the API server . In an embodiment the downloaded application described herein may include the device application .

The application server s may host one or more administration module s and one or more payment module s . The application server s are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases . The administration module s may provide for administration of various accounts as discussed in more detail herein.

A third party application executing on a third party server may present offers to the account holder such as goods and services. The third party may also be an acquaintance of the account holder s or may be a vendor or merchant.

The payment module s may provide a number of payment services and functions to users such as client users. The payment module s may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value via several possible avenues as described in more detail herein. The payment module may also extend credit to user and or may also have access to other funding sources to complete transactions e.g. a credit card a bank account and or a credit line. The payment module may operate as a money transmitter for instance and may operate using the payment module s .

The third party with whom a client user or account holder may transact may receive from the payment module s information regarding a requested order for a product a service or a donation amount information regarding the shipment address specified by the client user and payment confirmation. The payment module s may secure financial information of the client user with respect to the third party.

The device or may host the interface associated with the payment module s of the server s . The web client the device application and or the programmatic client may be associated with the account management module s and or the payment module s .

The payment modules may also be implemented as a standalone software program which does not necessarily have networking capabilities. In this embodiment the device may be directly connected to the payment module s without using the network .

The payment module s may have access to the database having for example the personal user account information through for example the database server s . The user account information may include payment information associated with the client user and an address destination of the client user for example.

The user account may refer to the primary account and or to the secondary account. When transactions are conducted from either account the primary account holder may be considered as the contact point for example a shipping address is that of the primary account holder. The web client the device application and or the programmatic client may operate a program supported by the one or more database server s . The database server s may support one or more account information links on a user interface of the network based device for example using the web client . By accessing the database server s the client user may add amend or delete account information of the client user among other information as described in more detail herein such as a default shipment address and a default payment method.

The network may include a mobile telephone network a wireless wide area network WWAN a wireline telephone network a wireless local area network wireless LAN or WLAN a wireless Metropolitan Area Network MAN and or a wireless personal area network PAN e.g. a Bluetooth network . Other network based technologies that may be used to connect include PON VSAT satellite. Micro impulse Radar Radio Frequency identification RFID UltraWide Band and or Infrared. The network based device may connect to the web using mobile internet exchange e.g. Wireless Application Protocol WAP and or Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP .

The network may allow the network based device to communicate with the third party e.g. a vendor or a charity and or to communicate with the payment module s and or the financial service provider among others having the capability to communicate through any various means. The primary account holder may allow limit or restrict such communications from and or to the secondary account holder. For example the primary account holder may have communications linked to the secondary account to be approved first before being transmitted from or received by the secondary account holder.

The account management module s may be configured to set up manage and control the primary and secondary accounts.

The account set up module may be configured to set up a primary account and a secondary account linked to the primary account. Details of these accounts may be stored in the database tables as described below. The secondary account may include sub accounts such as a spending account and a savings account. The administration module may also include a primary account holder management module account management module associated with the primary account. The account management module may be configured to enable controlled access with respect to a secondary account holder to funds in the secondary account.

The account management module s may be configured to permit the primary account holder to control the secondary account in various ways ways to access funds examples include online mobile payments debit card send money spending limits spending limits in certain categories limit or control transfer capabilities e.g. between the spending and saving accounts limit or control purchase capabilities e.g. on line layaway limit or control deposit control e.g. approve deposits from different sources into secondary accounts limit or control automatic debit capabilities e.g. a car insurance payment for insurance that the primary user may be ultimately responsible for limit or control automatic deposit capabilities limit or control purchasing categories limit or control purchasing merchants limit or control visibility of advertisements or marketing within an interface of the secondary account and other administrative functions. In an example the primary account holder may be permitted to place restrictions on fund transfers to from the secondary account. In another example the primary account holder may suspend the secondary account as described in more detail herein.

The primary account management module s may also include security management module s merchant control module s category control module s and marketplace control module s .

The security management module s may be configured to manage security levels of the secondary account. The primary user e.g. the primary account holder may monitor the security of the secondary account depending upon the maturity level of the secondary user as discussed herein. Security features of the account management features may be discussed in more detail herein.

The merchant control module s may be configured to manage interactions between the secondary account and merchants. In an example certain merchants may be permitted to transact with the secondary account and or certain merchants may be prohibited from transacting with the secondary account per the spending controls table . In another example funds available to be spent may be limited for certain merchants per the spending limits table . Other merchant control features may be discussed in more detail herein.

The category control module s may be configured to manage interactions between the secondary account and certain categories of goods and services. The category control module s may permit the primary account holder to limit spending in certain categories permit fund transfers for certain categories and restrict fund transfers for certain categories such as alcohol or tobacco products.

In an example the secondary account may be permitted to transact with merchants of certain categories and or may be prohibited from transacting with merchants of particular categories per a spending controls table of the tables . In another example funds available to be spent may be limited for certain categories per a spending limits table of the tables . Other category control features may be discussed in more detail herein.

The marketplace control module s include controlling where or how the secondary account holder may spend funds from the secondary account e.g. the spending account . Several examples of where how funds may be spent are at illustrated at Debit Card Shop Online Send Money and Mobile Payments. Each of these example means of sending money may be implemented through PAYPAL features.

Further the marketplace control module s may be configured to manage interactions between the secondary account and certain marketplaces. These marketplaces may have prohibited merchants or categories for instance. In an example the marketplace may be a particular website per the spending controls table of the tables . Funds available to be spent may be limited for certain marketplaces per the spending limits table of the tables . Other marketplace control features may be discussed in more detail herein.

A community may limit or restrict interaction between certain merchants marketplaces and or URLs and the secondary users. A community based merchant database may be accessed by the system to evaluate where a purchase amount in a purchase request is acceptable based on the spending restrictions and controls. A secondary account may be set up with a provision for extending the account to other groups such as a group of parents a managerial group a fraternity a soccer team or a group with buying power such as a school and other communities that collectively collect and spend.

The administration module s may include a funds transfer module to control transfer of funds between the savings account and the spending account. In particular the primary user may set limits on the secondary account user s ability to transfer funds between the savings account and the spending account. See for example fund transfer management feature of account management feature described in more detail with reference to .

A funds transfer module s may include a verification approval module s . The verification approval module s may be configured to verify whether the secondary account may transact given limits placed within the primary account holder management modules . Further the verification approval module s may be configured to permit the primary account holder to approve transactions with the respect to the secondary account holder. The primary account holder may set up a secure channel for authorizing payment to from the secondary account holder transactions involving the secondary account holder communications to from the secondary account holder and secondary account viewing. The primary account holder may set up reporting with regard to the secure channel and may set up blocks as discussed herein. Transactions may be subject to verification by the primary account holder based on configured rules. In one configured rule communications and transactions may be established by viral sign up for example account holders primary and or secondary may invite communication and transactions with third parties. If a third party has not been invited no communications or transactions with the account holder s may be permitted.

Verification and approval module s may include analysis of transfers to and from the secondary account according to parameters set by the primary account holder. Transactions may be approved disapproved automatically per the monitoring and approval s table saved entries or they may be approved disapproved individually for instance. In instances where the primary account holder set to approve certain or all transactions the transfer occurs upon such approval. The verification module s may communicate with a third party application executing on a third party server to determine if an offer by the third party still exists if the price of the offer has changed and or to determine if the product is in stock for example. The third party may receive from the payment module s and or verification module s order information shipment information and an associated payment and or payment confirmation. The third party application may receive and process the order send a virtual receipt to the payment module s and forward the order to the client user either or both the primary and secondary account holders as set by the primary account holder. For services and or donations the third party may receive a requested order and the payment confirmation exclusive of the user contact information such as a shipment address. In an additional embodiment the service provider or charity may receive client user contact information and may send a receipt to the client user. In particular the verification module s may access a database associated with the third party server or associated with the database server s .

A secondary account holder management module may be configured to enable privacy for transactions associated with the secondary account with respect to the primary account. In one example the secondary account holder may control what the primary account holder may view concerning the secondary account. For instance the secondary account holder may transfer in funds from an outside funding source into the account and make a purchase both of which may be unknown to the primary account holder.

The secondary account may include an independent source portion and a dependent source portion. The dependent source portion of the secondary account may be subject to control by the primary account holder management module and the secondary account holder management module. However the independent source portion of the secondary account may be subject to control only by the secondary account holder management module.

A source of the independent source portion may include funds earned by the secondary account holder. The secondary account holder management module may be configured to enable privacy for transactions associated with the independent source portion with respect to the primary account holder management module. The secondary account holder management module may be configured to enable privacy for transactions associated with the dependent source portion with respect to the primary account holder management module.

The administration module s may include savings module s customizing module s store module s navigation module s with a search module reputation module s and messaging module s .

The savings module s may include an opportunity for the primary user to allow the secondary user to create savings goals within a savings account. The savings module may be related to the savings account table and the savings goal features discussed herein. There may be multiple savings goals that may be displayed on an interface as shown for example in herein. The savings module s may allow automatic payment and or purchase of savings goals parental control or limits of savings goals savings goals related to certain vendors or providers and dynamic price monitoring of saving goal listings. The savings module may be configured to enable a portion of the savings account to be set aside for a selected goal as described in more detail herein.

The customizing or personalization module s may allow the secondary account holder to customize or personalize the account with various colors or themes games budgeting tools or other various customization tools as discussed herein. The budgeting tools may allow the secondary account holder to monitor their own spending and to create budgets. The customizing module may include a financial game module to simulate real world savings and spending. A virtual world financial game module may include a fully integrated economy architected to reward saving budgeting and transactions. The game module may include a tracking system of a digital allowance sub account.

The store module s may allow sellers or merchants to group their offers within a virtual store which may be otherwise personalized by and for the sellers. Such a store may also offer promotions incentives and features that are specific to and personalized by the respective seller. The device and or may be used by the client user to search the virtual store of the store module s for a product a service a promotion or a donation opportunity. The purchase request for the offer may be made through any of the devices if permissible per account parameters.

Navigation of the network based system including through the store module s may be facilitated by one or more navigation modules . The one or more navigation module s may include a search module . The navigation module s may enable key word searches of products services promotions or donations published via the system . A browse module allows users to browse various category e.g. music books offer price shipping price catalogue or inventory data structures according to which products services promotions or donations may be classified within the system . Various other navigation modules may be provided to supplement the search and browsing modules.

The reputation modules allow parties that transact utilizing the network based system to establish build and maintain reputations which may be made available and published to potential trading partners. Consider that where for example the network based system supports person to person trading users may have no history or other reference information whereby the trustworthiness and credibility of potential trading partners may be assessed. The reputation modules allow a user for example through feedback provided by other transaction partners to establish a reputation within the network based system over time. Other potential trading partners may then reference such a reputation for the purposes of assessing credibility and trustworthiness.

The application server s may include messaging modules . The messaging modules are responsible for the generation and delivery of messages to client users and third parties of the network based system . Such messages for example advise client users regarding the status of products e.g. providing out of stock notices to client users . Third parties may be notified of a product order payment confirmation and or shipment information. The messaging module s may use SMS IVR email or any other appropriate messaging module. Access to the messaging module s may be granted limited or restricted with respect to the secondary account holder as set in parameters defined by the primary account holder. The messaging modules may be associated with a message feature of one of the accounts such as message feature of the secondary account interface of .

The payment module s may include a payment transfer module a savings goal purchase module s a fraud prevention module s and or dispute resolution module s .

The payment transfer module may transfer a payment from one of the accounts discussed herein to the third party via the payment module s and or the financial service provider. The payment may be automatically transferred or may be subject to approval and or verification as discussed herein.

The savings goal purchase module s is related to the savings module s of the administration module discussed herein. The savings goal purchase module s may include the parameters to purchase perhaps automatically the product associated with the savings goal when the goal is met. This on line layaway may satisfy an impulse to buy a product now. However if there is insufficient funds in an account the item may be selected for automatic payment when there is enough in the account. In this way the account holder does not have to remember to purchase the item when the account has the funds. Also having on line layaway may be a lesson in savings setting goals and meeting goals. The merchant associated with the on line layaway may offer discounts on goals listed in the savings modules and may lock in sale prices or offer other sales incentives. Further the primary account holder may offer discounts on certain purchases to the secondary account holder by paying the difference between what the secondary account holder pays and the actual sales price or the primary account holder may provide a fund matching program to promote financial literacy.

The fraud prevention module s may implement various fraud detection and prevention mechanisms to reduce the occurrence of fraud within the system . The fraud prevention module s may prevent fraud with respect to the third party and or the client user in relation to any part of the request payment information flows and or request fulfillment. Fraud may occur with respect to unauthorized use of financial instruments non delivery of goods and abuse of personal information. The primary account holder and the secondary account holder may have a relationship such as parent child. Because the secondary account holder may be a minor contract law may not be able to be enforced. Potential fraud issues include the secondary user may purchase something that the parent did not approve of there may be a separate financial account of the secondary user originating IP addresses and cookies may not be consistent with previous logins and blocking of payments from and to secondary accounts. Methods to determine whether fraud has or is occurring include use of IP controls and analysis of IP addresses and system cookies. The merchant seller may also block access from these accounts.

The dispute resolution module s may provide mechanisms whereby disputes arising between transacting parties may be resolved. For example the dispute resolution modules may provide guided procedures whereby the parties are guided through a number of steps in an attempt to settle a dispute. In the event that the dispute cannot be settled via the guided procedures the dispute may be escalated to a mediator or arbitrator.

The tables may include a primary account table . The payment module s and or the financial service provider may access the primary account table and or may utilize the table through the database server s . The primary account table may contain a record for each registered primary account holder of the network based system and may include user identification information address information including default address financial instrument information including default payment method currency information and other information e.g. wireless carrier pertaining to each such registered user. A user may it will be appreciated operate as a seller a buyer a service provider and or a service recipient within the network based system .

The tables may also include a secondary account s table having a secondary account that may be linked to one or more primary accounts. Each primary account may also be linked to one or more secondary accounts. Account information similar to account information for table of the secondary account holder may be kept in the table .

Associated with secondary account table may be savings account s table and spending account table . A record of transactions may be stored in the tables and respectively. The transaction record may include purchase price the party or user with whom transaction took date transaction mechanics and other transaction related information.

Administration and security levels table may be associated with the primary account holder management modules to administer and secure secondary accounts. The primary account holder may have management and administrative settings stored in the table . The administration and security levels table may be used to store information concerning security levels and administration and management of each primary and secondary account. The table may be associated with a monitoring and approvals table which may be associated with the spending controls table and the spending limits table storing account management details as described herein. Further the security may parallel instant messaging IM security measures available.

The secondary account holder may have custom skin settings stored in the custom skin settings table . Table may be associated with the customizing modules described herein. Further budgeting tools and games associated with the secondary account may be stored in a budgeting tools and games table . The budgeting tools may help teach financial responsibility and spending discipline to the secondary users.

On the interface there may be account management features to facilitate automatic payments or transfers facilitate requests for money to be made without approval adding funds withdrawing funds disabling spending accounts disabling login accounts disabling for a certain time period e.g. grounded for a week allowing transfers between savings and spending funds amount limit on transfers for a certain duration enabling spending methods e.g. online merchant sending funds to another email account mobile payments debit card virtual debit card funds amount limit on spending for a duration allowing investment of savings account funds in higher interest money market account adding savings goals and deleting savings goals.

Spending account totals and information of the secondary account may be displayed at spending control limit tab . Another account management feature is spending methods selection feature when tab is opened up. Spending methods at account management feature spending methods selection feature . When opened up in the spending methods selection feature may include spending methods of online send money mobile payments and debit card. Management of the debit card may also be accessed at spending methods selection feature .

Spending tab may include several account management features including marketplace control feature merchant control feature and category control feature . There may be several spending limits associated with different time periods for example at account management feature spending limit feature .

Savings account totals and information of the secondary account may be displayed at savings control limits tab . When opened up in the Savings tab may include several account management features including a fund transfer feature an interest savings account feature a savings goal feature and a add savings goal feature . The fund transfer feature may allow transfers from the savings account of the secondary account to the spending account of the secondary account.

The interest savings account feature may allow funds in the secondary account savings account to earn interest. The primary account holder may subsidize this interest earned or may offer an opportunity for the secondary user holder of the secondary account to earn interest in an account of the primary user e.g. a money market account . The interest earned in the savings secondary account may be at a different rate or a higher rate than the primary account if the primary account subsidizes the interest accrued.

A system of exchange and borrowing may incorporate one financial instrument across multiple accounts. The secondary account holder may spend from the primary account with certain restrictions. In one embodiment funds from multiple accounts may be combined into a single primary account. This fund combination may allow a merchant s or third party s interface to be designed to accommodate a single account. The combination of funds may be handled by a secondary server of the application server s associated with the secondary account s rather than a primary server of the application server s associated with the primary account. The secondary server may manage the transfer of funds from the secondary account s into the primary account. Account number and any other relevant information for the account s may then be forwarded to the primary server. The payment accounts of one account type for example a savings secondary account may be converted to another account type for example the primary account by the secondary server. This conversion may be transparent to both an account holder and a merchant from whom the account holder may be making a purchase. The system may authorize a transaction e.g. purchase from the merchant and may debit the primary account according to a defined set of rules such as reimbursing the primary account from the secondary account s . Within this described system the secondary account s may be subject to the same interest bearing benefits as those attributed to the primary account.

The savings goal feature may be associated with the savings module as describe herein. The add savings goal feature may be a feature to add additional savings goals.

When opened up in the transfer money tab may include account management features a fund transfer feature and a recurring transfers table . The fund transfer feature may permit the primary account holder to transfer money between their account and the secondary account s and may permit transfer of funds between the spending and savings accounts. The primary user may set parameters on funds transfer such that approval of the primary user is met before transfer of funds into and out of any of the secondary accounts. The recurring transfers table lists transfers recurring with respect to the secondary account.

When opened up in the security tab may include another account management feature a security selection feature . The security selection feature may include a sliding scale from low to high representing the levels of security specified for the current secondary account. For example for high security levels each transaction is to be approved by the primary account holder before completion. Higher security levels may be recommended for younger children for instance. The security levels may restrict paying for items on web sites that are in age sensitive categories or as not labeled as trusted merchants. Money transactions received and sent as well as messages may be subject to approval with the highest security levels. With lower security levels there may be some limits in certain features or no limits in certain features. The security features may be customized. For example certain categories may be turned off for purchases e.g. alcohol and tobacco.

The recent activity tab may include a list of types of activities to and from information for each activity names or contact information for each activity amount date status completed pending etc. transaction details and actions such as pending approvals . The primary user may request or view statements or reports as to secondary account activity.

The interface may include several account management features including an account style feature tab a suspension feature and a period of suspension feature . The account style feature tab may be related to the security levels that may be automatically set per account style. Security levels may also be individually adjusted. Account styles may include business personal and dependents such as teens and youth. For example there may be a college or graduate account about age 17 and older a teen account about age 13 and older a tween account about age 8 and older and a toddler account about age 4 and older . The primary account holder may select the account style based on the relationship the maturity and or the age of the secondary account holder.

As also shown in the primary account holder may suspend or enable the account status of the secondary account at the suspension feature . A suspend until date may also be selected by the primary account holder in the event that the suspension is not indefinite using the period of suspension feature . Access to the interface for instance may be limited with respect to the secondary account holder when the account is suspended.

The primary account holder e.g. the comptroller the accounting department a parent or a supervisor may gain a peace of mind knowing that they have controls over the what when who and how specifications related to the secondary accounts.

Spending account information may include account balance the spending limits and a limits feature tab . illustrates a window that may open upon selection of the limits feature tab . The spending limits may be listed for the secondary account holder to view. Further in an embodiment not shown the spending account information may indicate available spending balance e.g. 15 remaining of the maximum spending limit 100 this week . Shopping destinations or possible methods to use for spending secondary account funds may be listed for the secondary account holder to view. Online shopping may or may not be enabled for the secondary account holder again depending upon parameters defined by the primary account holder. To make mobile payments for instance the mobile phone may be activated in this window by entering a phone number and a pin in the instance where mobile payments is an option provided by the primary account holder.

Requests for funds or to send funds may be made through a fund request feature in the interface of . These fund requests may be subject to approval by the primary account holder in certain account types. The secondary account holder may send money to and request money from selected recipients or email addresses as designated by the primary account holder . An account settings feature may also be included in the interface . illustrates a window that may open upon selection of the account settings feature . The account settings feature may include ATM card pin management for example. Savings account information may include account balance savings interest rate and savings goals feature .

In the instance where the primary account holder has set an appropriate security level for the secondary account the secondary account holder may transfer funds between the secondary sub accounts at transfer funds feature . The secondary account holder may send funds and or request funds at the funds request feature . The secondary account holder may need to fill out the recipient or an email address as well as amount and any notes describing the transaction. The transaction may be subject to approval by the primary account holder. A table lists recent transaction activity as described herein. The interface may be for a young secondary account holder with fewer options for selection than interface . Amount of Transaction Information icons and graphics may be more basic more colorful and or playful such as a piggy bank to represent amount in savings. A deposit table with icons representing each source may also be displayed in the interface .

At block a primary account is set up using the account set up module . The primary account record is established in the primary account table .

At block a secondary account is set up using the account set up module . The primary account record is established in the primary account table . The secondary account may be set up by the holder of the primary account and may be linked to the secondary account. The primary account may have an account administration module to administer the primary and secondary accounts.

At block a savings account and a spending account may be set up for each secondary account using the account set up module . The savings account record is established in the savings account table . The spending account record is established in the spending account table .

At block spending control spending limits and other administrative controls may be set up with respect to the secondary account by the primary account holder. The secondary account may be managed controlled limited and or suspended as described herein. The controls and limits may be dynamic changing as per the primary account holder. Administrative controls record is established in the administration and security levels table . Monitoring and approval s records are established in the monitoring and approval s table . Spending control record is established in the spending control table . Spending limits record is established in the spending limit table .

The primary account holder may have the account automatically change over time or may actively change the control and limits e.g. in the instance where the secondary account holder is a grounded dependent of the primary account holder the account may be suspended.

The secondary user may become a primary user upon relinquishing of controls and limits by the primary user. The controls and limits may be relinquished in a graduated track gradually relinquishing controls and limits in a step by step fashion as time trust and maturity levels of the secondary account holder increase. The graduated track may correspond to the security levels designated by the primary account holder for the secondary account. The security levels may decrease from a higher to a lower level or may increase to a higher level for instance if there is an instance of friendly fraud or secondary account suspension. The security levels may automatically adjust may be preset by the primary account holder to adjust if certain prerequisites are met or may be manually adjusted. The secondary user then may establish the primary account with the financial service provider. The primary accounts of the primary user and secondary user may be linked in the system which may provide some accessibility convenience. For example when dependents leave for college more financial responsibility may be appropriate for parents to render. The dependent may alternatively migrate to a type of credit card a Campus card or another age appropriate fund access model for instance.

In an instance where the secondary user earns money at a job for instance the money may be in the same secondary account may be in an account linked to the secondary account or may be in the secondary account but partitioned similar to how the savings and spending accounts are now partitioned with primary controlled ability to transfer between the sub accounts. The financial service provider may have some privacy controls to allow the secondary user to block or limit access to the self earned account from the primary user.

Funds may be transferred to the secondary account. The funds may be a result of an allowance or an automatic transfer from the primary account as a one time occurrence or on a periodic basis as determined by the primary user. In response to a primary account holder management module of the account administration module the funds transfer module may be configured control and or limit funds transfer to the secondary account from an outside source.

At block the secondary account holder and or the primary account holder may set up a savings goal related to purchase of goods or services or another goal such as a college fund.

At block upon reaching the savings goal the goods or services may be paid for. The goods or services may be automatically paid for for example in the instance where the primary account holder has allowed such parameters on the account. In a further embodiment the user may be prompted for authorization to pay for the goods or services upon reaching the savings goal. In this embodiment the payment is only made upon receiving appropriate authorization from the user.

The financial service provider and or the payment module may debit a system account of the client user in this case the secondary account holder and credit a system account of the seller or third party. In addition the financial service provider and or the payment module may charge the client user s credit cards automatically withdraw funds from a bank account of the client user or automatically withdraw funds from credit instruments associated with the FSP e.g. including the PAYPAL Buyer Credit technology . The financial service provider and or the payment module may pay the third party and or vendor by depositing funds into a system account or a bank account of the third party. In additional embodiments the payments may be peer to peer business to business and or consumer to business. The financial service provider may charge a transaction fee and or a surcharge fee. The transaction and or surcharge fee may be included in the price shown to the client user or buyer. The payment transferred from the client user may include the payment sent to the third party and the transaction surcharge fee assessed by the financial service provider. Order information and payment confirmation may be sent to the third party. The order information may include shipment information.

The third party may optionally process the order and optionally ship or otherwise provide the product service of donation if applicable. The product and or receipt may be physically received at the default address destination of the client user. Additionally or alternatively the client user may receive an electronic confirmation such as a receipt or a voucher for a service or donation via e mail web page update device application update a voicemail message a text message and or a telephone message. The shipment receipt may alternatively or additionally be sent by the application server s . For example the shipment may include a message sent to the network based device such as a link to download an application that is ordered by the client user a message including a code to access a service that is ordered or a message including ordered information such as stock purchase information. In an embodiment where a donation is made there may be no shipment and there may be a receipt sent to the user.

Further while a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations. In example embodiments a computer system e.g. a standalone client or server computer system configured by an application may constitute a module that is configured and operates to perform certain operations as described herein below. In other embodiments the module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. within a special purpose processor to perform certain operations. A module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a module mechanically in the dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations. Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories or optical and magnetic media.

As noted the software may be transmitted over a network using a transmission medium. The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for transmission to and execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signal or other intangible medium to facilitate transmission and communication of such software .

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

The following description includes terms such as up down upper lower first second etc. that are used for descriptive purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting. The elements materials geometries dimensions and sequence of operations may all be varied to suit particular applications. Parts of some embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. While the foregoing examples of dimensions and ranges are considered typical the various embodiments are not limited to such dimensions or ranges.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments have more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

Thus embodiments describe a method and a system to set up and control secondary accounts. Although embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of embodiments described herein.

