---

title: System and method for passively compensating pressure sensors
abstract: A temperature-compensated pressure sensor system includes a pressure sensing element, a temperature sensing device, and a temperature compensation network. The pressure sensing element provides a first voltage output representative of a sensed pressure value. The temperature sensing device provides a second voltage output representative of a sensed temperature value. The temperature compensation network is connected to receive the first voltage output provided by the pressure sensing element and the second voltage output provided by the temperature sensing device. The temperature compensation network provides a temperature compensated voltage representative of sensed pressure, wherein the second voltage output passively biases the temperature compensation network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08893554&OS=08893554&RS=08893554
owner: Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation
number: 08893554
owner_city: Windsor Locks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121120
---
This invention was made with government support under N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the Department of Defense. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is related to compensation networks and in particular to compensation networks utilized in conjunction with pressure sensors.

Pressure sensors are used in a variety of applications. A commonly employed type of pressure sensor is the piezo resistive pressure sensor. These types of sensors typically include a silicon diaphragm incorporating an ion implanted piezo resistive Wheatstone bridge. An applied pressure deflects the diaphragm and imbalances the bridge producing differential output signal that is proportional to the change in resistance caused by the pressure. Piezo resistive pressure sensors may be fabricated using either bulk silicon or silicon on insulator SOI wafers.

Changes in temperature cause changes in the resistance of the legs of the Wheatstone bridge and can therefore lead to errors in the measured pressure. To accommodate changes in temperature pressure sensors typically incorporate a resistive compensation network. The resistive compensation network operates by altering the electrical output signal at various temperatures by utilizing a resistor network. The resistor network changes its effective resistance value as a function of temperature to offset the change in output voltage of the Wheatstone bridge due to its temperature sensitivity. However the resistive compensation network is ineffective if a temperature gradient exists between the Wheatstone bridge and the compensation network. For example if the Wheatstone bridge is located in close proximity to a pressure medium with a temperature that differs from that of the ambient atmosphere surrounding the resistive compensation network hardware the difference in temperature can lead to errors in the compensation provided.

In some situations in which accuracy must be maintained in the presence of a temperature gradient a separate temperature sensing device e.g. resistive temperature device is located proximate to the pressure sensing element and the output of the temperature sensing device is used by a digital device such as an on board microprocessor or a separate electronic component with software to digitally compensate for temperature variation. However this requires detailed characterization of the thermally induced errors on the pressure sensor output during calibration of the pressure sensor as well as separate wires out of the sensor assembly to conduct this signal to the electronic component thus increasing cost and weight and reducing reliability.

A temperature compensated pressure sensor system includes a pressure sensing element a temperature sensing device and a resistive temperature compensation network. The pressure sensing element provides a first voltage output representative of a sensed pressure value. The temperature sensing device is located proximate to the pressure sensing element and provides a resistance that varies with a sensed temperature. A resistive temperature compensation network compensates the first voltage output provided by the pressure sensing element wherein the compensation provided by the resistive temperature network is biased by the resistance of the temperature sensing device located proximate the pressure sensor device.

The temperature compensated pressure sensor system according to an embodiment of the present invention utilizes a temperature sensing device located proximate adjacent to a pressure sensor to modify the response of the temperature compensation network. The resistance of the temperature sensing device is used to passively bias the temperature compensation network to account for temperature differences between the pressure sensing device and the compensation network.

In the embodiment shown in pressure sensing element is a Wheatstone bridge comprised of a plurality of resistive elements whose resistances vary with the deflection of these elements. That is deflection of one or more legs of pressure sensing element causes a difference in resistance between the one or more legs that results in a voltage differential Vout at the output of pressure sensing element . The output voltage Vout of pressure sensing element is provided to input terminals of temperature compensation network .

Temperature sensing device is located proximate to pressure sensing element and has a resistance that varies with temperature sensed. Temperature sensing device may be implemented with a resistive temperature device RTD thermistor or other well known temperature sensing device whose resistance changes with temperature. Temperature sensing device is connected to temperature compensation network via temperature compensation inputs and . As described in more detail below the varying resistance provided by variations in temperature measured by temperature sensing device modify the resistance and therefore the response of temperature compensation network to account for a temperature gradient that exists between pressure sensor portion and housing portion .

In the embodiment shown in temperature compensation network is a resistive network comprised of resistors Rp and Rs that are selected to compensate the output voltage provided by pressure sensor for changes in temperature thereby negating the thermally induced error of the sensor element . If pressure sensing element and temperature compensation network are at the same temperature then temperature compensation network accurately modifies the output provided by pressure sensing element . However if a temperature gradient exists between pressure sensing element and temperature compensation network then temperature compensation network fails to properly compensate the output voltage provided by pressure sensing element .

To overcome this limitation temperature sensing device is connected to temperature compensation network to modify the response of temperature compensation network . In the example shown in temperature sensing device is connected in parallel with resistor Rs. Because the resistance of temperature sensing device varies with the temperature of the fluid media provided to pressure sensor portion the resistance and therefore the compensation provided by temperature compensation network is modified based on the temperature sensed proximate to pressure sensor device . In this way the compensation provided by temperature compensation network is passively modified by temperature sensing device without the need for active compensation provided by a digital device software connected to the output of temperature compensation network . As a result the compensated output Vout comp provided by temperature compensation network accurately compensates for differences in temperature between temperature compensation network and pressure sensor element based on the passive feedback provided by temperature sensing device .

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

