---

title: Dynamically creating a social networking check-in location
abstract: In a method for creating a social networking check-in location for social networking applications, a computer receives a geographic location for each user computing device in a plurality of user computing devices. The computer determines a portion of the plurality of user computing devices that exhibit an area density exceeding a threshold. The area density is defined as a number of user computing devices per unit area. The computer receives two or more social networking messages from the portion of the plurality of user computing devices. The computer determines a common subject between the two or more social networking messages. The computer creates a social networking check-in location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09280795&OS=09280795&RS=09280795
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09280795
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120927
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of social networking and more specifically to a method system and computer program product for dynamically creating a social networking check in location for social networking applications.

Social networking is the interaction between people to share information ideas resources and interests. A popular form of social networking uses social networking services over the Internet. A social networking service allows a person to become a user create a profile description of the user for the user s web page communicate with other users or utilize a range of other services available through the social network service. Examples of popular social networking services are Facebook Registered trademark of Facebook Inc. foursquare Registered trademark of Foursquare Labs Inc. and Twitter Registered trademark of Twitter Inc. .

Users of social networking services communicate with other users of the service through social networking messages which are messages sent to the social networking service that can be made available to the general public all users of the service or to a select set of friends or followers.

For example a user of a social networking service such as Facebook can post a message or status update on his or her Facebook wall. A Facebook wall is a user s virtual wall displayed when a user is logged in to the Facebook service. This wall is where a user can post messages for viewing by his or her friends and where he or she can view messages posted by his or her friends on their walls. Users can also post messages directly on a friend s wall. In another example a user of a social networking service such as Twitter can post a Tweet message which is a message posted to a Twitter account. These Tweet messages can either be public or protected. A public Tweet message can be viewed by anyone while a protected Tweet message can only be seen by approved followers. Followers are other users of Twitter social networking service that have subscribed to a user s Twitter updates.

Many social networking services such as foursquare and Facebook allow users to check in to a specific location check in location and share their location with others. For example users can check in to a specific location by using a mobile social networking application on a smart phone or other computing device. Physical location of the smart phone or other device is typically determined using the Global Positioning System GPS capabilities of the smart phone or other computing device.

Many social networking applications have a feature where a user can see a list of nearby places into which the user can check in. If a location is not on the nearby places list the user can add the location directly from the phone. Once a user has checked in they have the option of sharing their location with friends in services such as foursquare or Facebook.

Aspects of an embodiment of the present invention disclose a method and a program product for creating a social networking check in location for social networking applications. A computer receives a geographic location for each user computing device in a plurality of user computing devices. The computer determines a portion of the plurality of user computing devices that exhibit an area density exceeding a threshold. The area density is defined as a number of user computing devices per unit area. The computer receives two or more social networking messages from the portion of the plurality of user computing devices. The computer determines a common subject between the two or more social networking messages. The computer creates a social networking check in location.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code instructions embodied thereon.

Any combination of computer readable media may be utilized. Computer readable media may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of a computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on a user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In the depicted embodiment computing system includes user computing devices A N social networking server and server interconnected over network . Network may be a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet a cellular data network any combination thereof or any combination of connections and protocols that will support communications between user computing devices A N social networking server and server in accordance with embodiments of the invention. Network may include wired wireless or fiber optic connections. Computing system may include additional user computing devices servers computers or other devices not shown.

User computing devices A N may be laptop computers tablet computers personal digital assistant PDA or smart phones. In general user computing devices A N may be any electronic device or computing system capable of sending and receiving data and communicating with social networking server over network .

In one embodiment user computing devices A N may each contain an application programming interface API not shown . Location API s are application programming interfaces that programs can call to receive the geographic location of a user computing device. The location API receives the geographic location of a user computing device from a Global Positioning System GPS receiver not shown . A GPS receiver is integrated or connected to each of user computing devices A N. A GPS receiver can determine its geographic location and present that geographic location as longitude and latitude coordinates.

Social networking server may be a server computer such as a management server a web server or any other electronic device capable of receiving and sending data. In another embodiment social networking server may represent a server computing system utilizing multiple computers as a server system such as in a cloud computing environment. Social networking server contains social networking service program .

Server may be a server computer such as a management server a web server or any other electronic device capable of receiving and sending data. In another embodiment server may represent a server computing system utilizing multiple computers as a server system such as in a cloud computing environment. Server contains check in location creation program .

Social networking interface programs A N execute on user computing devices A N respectively. Social networking interface programs A N may be dedicated social networking applications e.g. a specific social networking service application on a smart phone web browsers or any other programs or functions that can communicate with social networking service program and provide a user interface for creating social networking messages. In other embodiments a social networking interface program may not be included on every user computing device present in computing system .

In one embodiment social networking interface programs A N have the capability to run in the background of their respective user computing device to constantly determine and make available the geographic location of that user computing device. For example a user at user computing device A does not have to be actively using social networking interface program A for social networking interface program A to determine and make available the geographic location of user computing device A.

Social networking service program operates to receive forward and manage social networking messages from social networking interface programs A N. In one embodiment social networking service program is a main social networking program such as Facebook social networking service or Twitter social networking service. In one embodiment social networking service program resides on social networking server . In other embodiments social networking service program may reside on another server or another computing device provided that social networking service program is accessible to social networking interface programs A N and provided that social networking service program is accessible to check in location creation program .

Check in location creation program operates to create a social networking check in location for social networking applications. In one embodiment check in location creation program determines that a subset of user computing devices exhibits an area density exceeding a threshold area density. Area density is defined as a number of user computing devices per unit area. Check in location creation program determines a common subject between social networking messages received from the subset of user computing devices. Check in location creation program creates a social networking check in location based on the common subject.

In one embodiment check in location creation program resides on server . In other embodiments check in location creation program may reside on another server or another computing device provided that check in location creation program has access to social networking service program .

User computing devices A N social networking server and server may each include components as depicted in further detail with respect to .

Initially the geographic locations of user computing devices A N are determined and sent to check in location creation program .

In one embodiment social networking interface program A calls the location API of user computing device A for the geographic location of user computing device A. The location API receives the location of user computing device A from a GPS receiver integrated with user computing device A. A GPS receiver can determine its location and present that location as longitude and latitude coordinates. Social networking interface program A sends the geographic location to social networking service program over network . In other embodiments social networking interface program A sends the geographic location directly to check in location creation program over network . Social networking interface programs A N each function similarly.

In another embodiment the geographic location of user computing device A may be determined by a carrier and sent to check in location creation program . A carrier may be a cellular telephone carrier if the user computing device is a cellular telephone. Cellular networks can determine the geographic location of a cellular telephone by using the radio resource location services protocol. Radio resource location services protocol supports the positioning method Enhanced Observed Time Difference E OTD . E OTD is based on measurements inside the cellular telephone where the phone measures the observed time difference of arrival of bursts sent by nearby pairs of base transceiver stations.

In step check in location creation program receives the geographic locations of user computing devices A N. In one embodiment check in location creation program receives the geographic locations of user computer devices A N from social networking interface programs A N respectively. In one embodiment a geographic location is presented as longitude and latitude coordinates.

In step check in location creation program determines that a subset of the user computing devices of user computing devices A N exhibits an area density exceeding a threshold area density. In one embodiment check in location creation program uses a commercially available or open source statistical analysis program to determine that the subset of the user computing devices of user computing devices A N exhibits an area density exceeding a threshold area density.

The statistical analysis program for example may run a histogram function on the geographic locations of user computing devices A N. A histogram function is a mathematical function that counts the number of observations that fall into separate bins. In one embodiment the geographic locations e.g. longitude and latitude coordinates of user computing devices A N are the observations and separate areas on the earth s surface e.g. the area between two lines of latitude and two lines of longitude are the bins. The histogram function determines if a subset of the user computing devices in user computing devices A N exists in each area on the earth s surface. This determination represents the area density of each subset of user computing devices in user computing devices A N. The statistical analysis function determines that a subset of the user computing devices in user computing devices A N exhibits an area density exceeding a threshold area density.

If check in location creation program is deployed to create social networking check in locations in Manhattan a different bin size may be appropriate compared with other locations. For example a smaller bin size may be used to account for smaller venues on average in Manhattan. Different threshold area densities may also be appropriate depending on the locations. Bin size and threshold area density may be predetermined. A larger threshold area density may be used to account for the larger probability that more user computing devices may be in the same area because of the larger population density in Manhattan.

In step check in location creation program receives two or more social networking messages from the subset of the user computing devices of user computing devices A N that exhibits an area density exceeding a threshold area density. In one embodiment check in location creation program sends a notification to social networking service program indicating the subset of the user computing devices of user computing devices A N that exhibits an area density exceeding a threshold area density. The notification directs social networking service program to send social networking messages from the subset of the user computing devices of user computing devices A N that exhibits an area density exceeding a threshold area density to check in location creation program .

In one embodiment two or more users at respective user computing devices in the subset of the user computing devices in user computing devices A N input a social networking message using a respective social networking interface program from social networking interface programs A N. The social networking messages are sent to social networking service program over network . Social networking service program sends the two or more social networking messages from the subset of the user computing devices of user computing devices A N that exhibits an area density exceeding a threshold area density to check in location creation program over network .

In step check in location creation program determines a common subject between the two or more social networking messages from the subset of the user computing devices of user computing devices A N that exhibits an area density exceeding a threshold area density.

In one embodiment check in location creation program determines a common subject between the two or more social networking messages by a statistical comparison of words appearing in each of the social networking messages. The statistical comparison is done by a text analytics program. The statistical comparison identifies keywords that appear in a threshold percentage of social networking messages from the subset of the user computing devices of user computing devices A N that exhibits an area density exceeding a threshold area density. The threshold percentage for example may be 50 . The keyword would have to appear in at least 50 of the social networking messages to be considered the common subject.

A keyword is a word which occurs in a text more often than would be expected by chance. Keywords are calculated by carrying out a statistical test e.g. log linear which compares the word frequencies in a text against their expected frequencies derived in a much larger corpus which acts as a reference for general language use. A keyword may also be identified by a hashtag e.g. concert on Twitter or some other tag placed on a word.

In another embodiment check in location creation program uses a concept mining program to determine a common subject between the two or more social networking messages. Concept mining is a process that extracts concepts found in text. The concept mining process includes the ability to scan multiple messages and relate them on the basis of a common concept.

In step check in location creation program creates a social networking check in location based on the common subject between the two or more social networking messages from the subset of the user computing devices in user computing devices A N that exhibits an area density exceeding a threshold area density. In one embodiment the check in location is given a title derived from the common subject determined in step . The title may be just the common subject determined in step . The location of the check in location is the area on the earth s surface where the subset of the user computing devices in user computing devices A N exists. Check in location creation program sends information describing the check in location e.g. the title and location to social networking service program . In one embodiment social networking service program will update the check in location database used for the check in feature of the social networking service.

User computing devices A N social networking server and server each include communications fabric which provides communications between computer processor s memory persistent storage communications unit and input output I O interface s . Communications fabric can be implemented with any architecture designed for passing data and or control information between processors such as microprocessors communications and network processors etc. system memory peripheral devices and any other hardware components within a system. For example communications fabric can be implemented with one or more buses.

Memory and persistent storage are computer readable storage media. In one embodiment memory includes random access memory RAM and cache memory . In general memory can include any suitable volatile or non volatile computer readable storage media.

Social networking interface programs A N are stored in persistent storage of user computing devices A N respectively. Social networking interface programs A N are stored for execution by one or more of the respective computer processors of user computing devices A N via one or more memories of memory of user computing devices A N respectively. Social networking service program is stored in persistent storage of social networking server for execution by one or more of the respective computer processors of social networking server via one or more memories of memory of social networking server . Check in location creation program is stored in persistent storage of server for execution by one or more of the respective computer processors of server via one or more memories of memory of server . In this embodiment persistent storage includes a magnetic hard disk drive. Alternatively or in addition to a magnetic hard disk drive persistent storage can include a solid state hard drive a semiconductor storage device read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash memory or any other computer readable storage media that is capable of storing program instructions or digital information.

The media used by persistent storage may also be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage . Other examples include optical and magnetic disks thumb drives and smart cards that are inserted into a drive for transfer onto another computer readable storage medium that is also part of persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices. In these examples communications unit includes one or more network interface cards. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links. Social networking interface programs A N may be downloaded to persistent storage of user computing devices A N through communications unit of user computing devices A N respectively. Social networking service program may be downloaded to persistent storage of social networking server through communication unit of social networking server . Check in location creation program may be downloaded to persistent storage of server through communications unit of server .

I O interface s allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to computing system . For example I O interface may provide a connection to external devices such as a keyboard keypad a touch screen and or some other suitable input device. External devices can also include portable computer readable storage media such as for example thumb drives portable optical or magnetic disks and memory cards. Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media and can be loaded onto persistent storage via I O interface s . I O interface s also connect to a display .

Display provides a mechanism to display data to a user and may be for example a computer monitor or a touch screen.

The programs described herein are identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature herein is used merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the Figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

