---

title: Real-time video image analysis for providing virtual landscaping
abstract: System, method, and computer program product are provided for using real-time video analysis, such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with landscape design. Through the use of real-time vision object recognition objects, logos, artwork, products, locations, and other features that can be recognized in the real-time video stream can be matched to data associated with such to assist the user with selecting the proper landscape elements for the area the user wishes to landscape. The proper landscape elements may be based off of several factors regarding the landscape area. These factors include natural characteristics of the area, such as soil type, weather, sun/shade, natural terrain of the area, etc. This invention provides recommended landscape elements for an area, such that the recommended landscape elements have a high rate of success in the area.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08721337&OS=08721337&RS=08721337
owner: Bank Of America Corporation
number: 08721337
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120101
---
This Non provisional patent application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 450 213 filed Mar. 8 2011 entitled Real Time Video Image Analysis Applications for Commerce Activity and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 508 966 titled Real Time Video Image Analysis for Providing Virtual Landscaping filed on Jul. 18 2011 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Land owners have many options when it comes to landscaping their property. Land owners may add grasses plants flowers bushes trees rocks yard gnomes mulch and or the like to their land to enhance the look of their land and add value to their property. Furthermore many land owners add hardscapes such as pools decks furniture or the like for outdoor entertainment purposes. Selecting and positioning these landscape elements is a difficult task for most land owners. In fact many land owners turn to professional landscapers to determine recommended landscape elements to add and the location to add them.

Many factors may play a role in landscape design. For example plants grasses flowers bushes trees and other living landscape elements require proper water sunlight and soil conditions to grow. And these criteria vary widely by plant species. Even with advances in technology knowing the best landscape elements for a specific piece of property may be a challenging task.

Today modern handheld mobile devices such as smart phones or the like have the capability to facilitate payment for a cup of coffee or provide a boarding pass for a flight. These advances combine multiple technologies through a handheld mobile device to provide a user with an array of capabilities. For example many smart phones are equipped with significant processing power sophisticated multi tasking operating systems and high bandwidth Internet connection capabilities. Moreover such mobile devices often have additional features that are becoming increasingly more common and standardized features. Such features include but are not limited to location determining devices such as Global Positioning System GPS devices sensor devices such as accelerometers and high resolution video cameras.

As the capabilities of such mobile devices have increased so too have the applications i.e. software that can be used with the mobile devices. One such example of innovative software is a category known as augmented reality AR or more generally referred to as mediated reality. One such example of an AR presentment application platform is Layar available from Layar Amsterdam the Netherlands. The Layar platform technology analyzes location data compass direction data and the like in combination with information related to the objects locations or the like in a captured video stream to create browse able hot spots or tags that are superimposed on the mobile device display resulting in an experience described as reality browsing. 

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention address the above needs and or achieve other advantages by providing apparatuses e.g. a system computer program product and or other devices and methods for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with landscaping a defined landscaping area.

Using real time video analysis such as augmented reality or the like the user may capture information regarding a defined landscape area such as the user s property around his house. The system reviews the captured information and provides the user of the mobile device with virtual landscape information such as indications of the proper landscaping elements for the area the user captured in real time video.

Landscape information may be provided to a user based on an analysis of several factors relating to the captured area. These factors include various information about the selected area to be landscaped such as the global position compass position of mobile device capturing the landscape image or video climate range rain fall averages sun shade slope topography soil type prevailing winds dimensional data existing plant water and hardscape features and the like. Other factors may include the selected landscaping style desired such as formal informal Tuscan Italian Mediterranean English garden tropical Asian contemporary desert and or xeriscape styles.

Based on these factors the system may provide the best location for landscape elements within the defined landscape area. For example the system may suggest planting a pine tree in the northern portion of the defined area of land because the northern portion of the land provides the best environment for a pine tree to grow. The user may then select the indicator associated with that landscape element and purchase the element via his her mobile device.

In some embodiments the indicator associated with that specific landscape element may also provide other landscape elements suitable for that area. For example if the user selects the indicator associated with the pine tree in the northern portion of the defined area of land the system may provide other trees that may be suitable for that area such as an Oak or Maple tree.

In some embodiments the user may select a landscape element the system recommended from the real time video display and move the element to other locations on the display in order to get a visual of the possible positioning of that element within the defined landscape area. The system may then analyze the factors for the location in which the user moved the element to and determine if the landscape element will be suitable for the new user defined position.

In yet other embodiments the user may provide an pre selected landscape elements that he she wants to have incorporated into the landscape area. The system may then position the landscape elements that the user provides in suitable positions such that each element may be in the best location for its needs. For example a user may wish to add a pool and patio furniture to his her backyard. The system may position the furniture and pool in such a way as to make the pool the focal point of the backyard.

In still other embodiments the user may be in a store on the Internet or in another location where landscape elements may be sold. The user may particularly like a specific element that he she sees. The user may use real time video analysis such as augmented reality or the like to capture information regarding the landscape element. The system may then provide the user with a display incorporating that landscape element into the user s defined landscape area. In this way the user may visualize the landscape element in his her landscape area and determine if he she wishes to purchase the product.

Embodiments of the invention relate to systems methods and computer program products for providing landscaping design recommendations comprising building a directory of data relating to the landscape area wherein the directory comprises information regarding a location within the landscape area the information based on natural characteristics of the location within the landscape area receiving information about a product from a mobile device wherein the products are to be incorporated in the landscape area matching the information about the product with the directory of data relating to locations within the landscape area through the use of a processing device wherein the matching of the product with the location within the landscape area is based at least in part on the natural characteristics of the location within the landscape area and the natural characteristics of the product and presenting the products and indicators associated with the products in a real time video stream on a mobile device in a recommended location within the landscape area the recommended location is based at least in part on the matching of information about the product with the directory of data relating to the location within the landscape area.

In some embodiments presenting the products and indicators associated with the products comprises superimposing the products and indicators associated with the products over real time video that is capture by the mobile phone of the landscape area wherein the location of the products within the landscape area correspond to the directory of data relating to the landscape area. Presenting an indicator associated with the product may comprise displaying the indicator on a display of the mobile device. The presenting of an indicator associated with the product comprises superimposing the indicator over real time video that is captured by the mobile device. The indicator may further be selectable by the user. The indicator upon being selected provides information about the product and the natural characteristics of the product compared to the natural characteristics of the location within the landscape area.

In some embodiments matching the product with the directory of data relating to the landscape area further comprises determining a location for the product within the landscape area wherein the location for the product within the landscape area is the location the product is going to thrive based at least in part on the natural characteristics of the product and the landscape area.

In some embodiments the directory comprises natural characteristic information regarding geographic location indications within the landscape area. The directory may further comprise natural characteristic information about geological information or weather data of the landscape area.

In some embodiments receiving product information may comprise manually inputted list data wherein the list data indicates user products preferences. Receiving product information may also comprise real time imaging of a product.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to elements throughout. Where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. Also as used herein the term a and or an shall mean one or more even though the phrase one or more is also used herein. Although some embodiments of the invention herein are generally described as involving a financial institution one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the invention may involve other businesses that take the place of or work in conjunction with the financial institution to perform one or more of the processes or steps described herein as being performed by a financial institution. Still in other embodiments of the invention the financial institution described herein may be replaced with other types of businesses that offer payment account systems to users.

While embodiments discussed herein are generally described with respect to real time video streams or real time video it will be appreciated that the video stream may be captured and stored for later viewing and analysis. Indeed in some embodiments video is recorded and stored on a mobile device and portions or the entirety of the video may be analyzed at a later time. The later analysis may be conducted on the mobile device or loaded onto a different device for analysis. The portions of the video that may be stored and analyzed may range from a single frame of video e.g. a screenshot to the entirety of the video. Additionally rather than video the user may opt to take a still picture of the environment to be analyzed immediately or at a later time. Embodiments in which real time video recorded video or still pictures are analyzed are contemplated herein.

Some embodiments of the invention herein are generally described as involving landscape areas. Landscape areas include any outdoor or open air area in which a user wishes to add landscape elements. Examples of landscape areas may include areas around a house building parks decks balconies and the like. Further some embodiments of the invention herein are generally described as involving landscape elements. Landscape elements are any items that a user may wish to place in a landscape area. Landscape elements may include vegetation such as plants trees grasses flowers and the like. Landscape elements may also include furniture decks grill areas fire pits fireplaces rocks stones ponds playground equipment pools or any other products that a user may wish to place in an outdoor area.

Next in block a determination is made as to which images from the real time video stream are associated with landscape areas or landscape elements of users or individuals associated with the users of a mobile device. The determination is made by analyzing the real time video stream for objects logos soil dimensions compass information and or other landscape area indicating features or landscape element indications features to determine what is within the video stream field and to then provide matches i.e. associations of landscape elements with a landscape area based on several factors. The factors may include global position compass position of mobile device capturing the landscape image or video climate range rain fall averages sun shade slope topography soil type prevailing winds dimensional data existing plant water and hardscape features and the like. Other factors may include the selected landscaping style desired such as formal informal Tuscan Italian Mediterranean English garden tropical Asian contemporary desert and or xeriscape styles.

Thereafter at block one or more indicators are presented on the display of the mobile device in conjunction with the real time video stream. In some embodiments the indicators are presented when the user captures a landscape area. Each of the indicators is associated with an image determined to be a landscape element or a landscape area. The images associated with a landscape element are matched with the landscape area of the user of the mobile device such that the landscape elements selected are specifically designed to fit into the landscape area. For example a tree requiring full sun may be selected by the system to be positioned within the landscape area where there is full sun. The indicator may take various forms such as display of a tag a highlighted area a hot spot or the like. In specific embodiments the indicator is a selectable indicator such that a user may select e.g. click on hover over touch the display provide a voice command and or the like the landscape element or indicator to provide display of specifics related to the landscape element and offers for purchasing the element. In some embodiments the indicator itself may provide the information or a portion of the information to the user. In addition the information related to the landscape element or landscape area may include a review of the element or area by the system or associated individual.

The network may be a global area network GAN such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or any other type of network or combination of networks. The network may provide for wireline wireless or a combination wireline and wireless communication between devices on the network.

In some embodiments the user is an individual. The user may be a home owner park director landscaper or any other individual wishing to use real time video analysis for landscape information. The user may be in range of any landscape area or landscape element for which the user may wish to consider implementing using the real time video system. In some embodiments the user may purchase the landscape element via selecting the indicator associated with the element. The transaction for purchase of the landscape element may be made by the user using the mobile device such as a mobile wallet i.e. smart phone PDA etc. or other types of payment options such as credit cards checks cash debit cards loans lines of credit virtual currency etc. that allow the user to make a transaction to purchase the landscape element.

As illustrated in the real time video image server generally comprises a communication device a processing device and a memory device . As used herein the term processing device generally includes circuitry used for implementing the communication and or logic functions of the particular system. For example a processing device may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and other support circuits and or combinations of the foregoing. Control and signal processing functions of the system are allocated between these processing devices according to their respective capabilities. The processing device may include functionality to operate one or more software programs based on computer readable instructions thereof which may be stored in a memory device.

The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device . The processing device uses the communication device to communicate with the network and other devices on the network such as but not limited to the mobile device . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server or other device for communicating with other devices on the network .

In some embodiments the processing device may also be capable of operating one or more applications such as one or more applications functioning as an artificial intelligence AI engine. The processing device may recognize landscape elements or landscape areas that it has identified in prior uses by way of the AI engine. In this way the processing device may recognize specific landscape elements and or classes of elements and store information related to the recognized landscape element in one or more memories and or databases discussed herein. Once the AI engine has thereby learned of a landscape element and or class of elements the AI engine may run concurrently with and or collaborate with other modules or applications described herein to perform the various steps of the methods discussed. For example in some embodiments the AI engine recognizes a landscape element that has been recognized before and stored by the AI engine. The AI engine may then communicate to another application or module of the mobile device and or server an indication that the landscape element may be the same landscape element previously recognized. In this regard the AI engine may provide a baseline or starting point from which to determine the nature of the landscape element. In other embodiments the AI engine s recognition of a landscape element is accepted as the final recognition of the element.

As further illustrated in the real time video image server comprises computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes the computer readable instructions of a server application . In some embodiments the memory device includes data storage for storing data related to landscape information including but not limited to data created and or used by the server application or a directory created by the user .

In the embodiment illustrated in and described throughout much of this specification the server application may analyses landscape areas captured by a user using a real time video stream. The server application analyzes factors associated with the landscape area in order to predict a recommended landscape element to include in the landscape area. The factors the server application analyzes includes but is not limited to global position compass position of mobile device capturing the landscape image or video climate range rain fall averages sun shade slope topography soil type prevailing winds dimensional data existing plant water and hardscape features and the like. Other factors may include the selected landscaping style desired such as formal informal Tuscan Italian Mediterranean English garden tropical Asian contemporary desert and or xeriscape styles.

Once the server application analyzes the user s landscape area the server application provides the user a virtual landscape area incorporating proposed landscape elements based on the factors. For example the user may have captured his backyard using the real time image capture on his mobile device . The server application after analyzing the factors associated with the backyard provides the user a virtual image of his her back yard that includes the landscape elements the server application determines as recommended. A recommended landscape element is one that may produce its maximum potential or a high potential given the location of the landscape area. For example a flower that requires full sun light will reach its maximum potential if the flower is located in the landscape area that has full sun light. Furthermore the virtual image of the back yard provides the user an ability to visualize a proposed landscape design. It is understood that either one or a list of possible landscape elements suitable for the landscape area may be displayed to the user for selection.

In some embodiments the server application may further provide access to a directory storing landscape elements or landscape areas of a user . The server application allows the user to manually input via a mobile device or other device with similar processing features such as a computer tablet hand held device etc. landscape elements that the user wishes for the system to consider when adding landscape elements to a landscape area. The user inputs may be added by the user through the use of an interface social networking site and or the like. In this way the user may provide user inputs by several means thus allowing for easy accessibility to update the user s landscape element requests. The data stored within the server application provides computer readable instructions to the processing device to allow for selection of these landscape elements when determining a recommended landscape elements. The server application stores the user inputted landscape element so that the server application may incorporate the inputted landscape elements into a landscape area when appropriate.

In some embodiments as described in further detail below the server application may recognize a marker and or objects within an environment . The marker may be interpreted with respect to data in the memory device and be recognized as a possible landscape element that may be available to the user . In this way the real time video image server provides marker interpretations and analysis with respect to the data on the real time video image server .

Whether the landscape elements are provided by recommendation from the server application or by the user the user may select the landscape element and move it within the landscape area. In this way the user may place the landscape elements where he she wishes and view the landscape area with the landscape elements in various locations. When the user moves the landscape element into a location on the landscape area other than the one recommended by the system the indicator associated with the landscape element will provide the user with information regarding the possible issues with moving the landscape element to that location. For example a user may move a pool from one side of the landscape area to another. However the system may provide the user information regarding a root system that would kill several large trees in the area if the pool was moved to that location or warn the user that the trees will create excessive cleaning maintenance issues with the pool. In some embodiments once a user moves a landscape element from one location on the landscape area to another location on the landscape area the indicator will provide a percentage of survival of that landscape element if the landscape element is vegetation. The percentage information is based on the factors analyzed by the server application .

In some embodiments the server application may analyze landscape elements captured by a user using a real time video stream at a store or retailer. The server application analyzes the landscape elements the user captures and stores the landscape elements in the memory device . The server application may provide an indicator to the user for the landscape element. The indicator may provide the user with the ability to purchase the landscape element information about the landscape element and allow the user move and position the landscape element within the virtual landscape area.

The server application may further provide the user on the display of a mobile device offers to purchase the landscape elements or similar landscape elements. Offers may be from several retailers of the landscape element thus giving the user options from whom to purchase the landscape element. Offers to purchase may further include special offers in the form of a discount coupon etc. that may expire within a predetermined amount of time or may be available to the user at any time he wishes to make a transaction. If the user selects to purchase the landscape element through the indicator on the display of the mobile device the server application may communicably link with the user s desired financial institution to authorize the transaction. In this way the system may provide convenient purchasing of a landscape item that the user wishes to include in his landscape area.

As further illustrated is an environment in which the user utilizes a mobile device to capture real time video of an environment in an augmented reality experience. As described in further detail below with respect to the mobile device may be any mobile communication device. The mobile device has the capability of capturing real time video of the surrounding environment . The real time video capture may be by any means known in the art. In one particular embodiment the mobile device is a mobile telephone equipped with a camera capable of video capture.

The environment contains a number of objects . Objects include but are not limited to a landscape element landscape area and or the like that the user may wish to utilize the system for. Some of such objects may include an marker identifiable to the mobile device . An marker may be any type of marker that is a distinguishing feature that can be interpreted to identify specific objects . In some embodiments the marker may be interpreted by the mobile device . In other embodiments the marker may be interpreted by the real time video image server . In yet other embodiments the marker may be interpreted by both the mobile device and the real time video image server . For instance an marker may be alpha numeric characters symbols logos shapes ratio of size of one feature to another feature a product identifying code such as a bar code electromagnetic radiation such as radio waves e.g. radio frequency identification RFID architectural features color etc. In some embodiments the marker may be audio and the mobile device may be capable of utilizing audio recognition to identify words or unique sounds broadcast. The marker may be any size shape etc. Indeed in some embodiments the marker may be very small relative to the object such as the alpha numeric characters that identify the name or model of an object whereas in other embodiments the marker is the entire object such as the unique shape size structure etc.

In some embodiments the marker is not actually a physical marker located on or being broadcast by the object . For instance the marker may be some type of identifiable feature that is an indication that the object is nearby. In some embodiments the marker for an object may actually be the marker for a different object . For example the mobile device may recognize a particular building as being Building A. Data stored in the data storage may indicate that Building B is located directly to the east and next to Building A. Thus marker for an object that are not located on or being broadcast by the object are generally based on fixed facts about the object e.g. Building B is next to Building A . However it is not a requirement that such a marker be such a fixed fact. The marker may be anything that enables the mobile device and or the financial institution application to interpret to a desired confidence level what the object is. For example the mobile device object recognition application and or AR presentation application may be used to identify a particular person as a first character from a popular show and thereafter utilize the information that the first character is nearby features of other characters to interpret that a second character a third character etc. are nearby whereas without the identification of the first character the features of the second and third characters may not have been used to identify the second and third characters. This example may also be applied to objects outside of people.

The marker may also be or include social network data such as data retrieved or communicated from the Internet such as tweets blog posts social networking site posts various types of messages and or the like. In other embodiments the marker is provided in addition to social network data as mentioned above. For example mobile device may capture a video stream and or one or more still shots of a large gathering of people. In this example as above one or more people dressed as characters in costumes may be present at a specified location. The mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application may identify several social network indicators such as posts blogs tweets messages and or the like indicating the presence of one or more of the characters at the specified location. In this way the mobile device and associated applications may communicate information regarding the social media communications to the user and or use the information regarding the social media communications in conjunction with other methods of object recognition. For example the mobile device object recognition application and or the AR presentation application performing recognition of the characters at the specified location may confirm that the characters being identified are in fact the correct characters based on the retrieved social media communications. This example may also be applied objects outside of people.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses one or more other servers social media networks applications and or the like in order to retrieve and or search for information useful in performing an object recognition. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server accesses another application by way of an application programming interface or API. In this regard the mobile device and or server may quickly search and or retrieve information from the other program without requiring additional authentication steps or other gateway steps.

In some embodiments markers may be recognized by the server application . For example the server application may identify a marker as being a specific landscape element the server application may then provide real time data indicating the proposed location for the landscape element within the landscape area of the user . For example the marker may identify the landscape element as a birch tree. In this way the server application may provide an appropriate location within the user s landscape area for the birch tree. The server application may also provide an indicator of the other types of landscape elements that may be recommended in the landscape area.

While illustrates that the objects with markers only include a single marker it will be appreciated that the object may have any number of markers with each equally capable of identifying the object . Similarly multiple markers may be identified by the mobile device such that the combination of the markers may be utilized to identify the object . For example the facial recognition may identify a person as a famous athlete and thereafter utilize the uniform the person is wearing to confirm that it is in fact the famous athlete.

In some embodiments a marker may be the location of the object . In such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user . As noted above a location based marker could be utilized in conjunction with other non location based markers identifiable and recognized by the mobile device to identify the object . However in some embodiments a location based marker may be the only marker . For instance in such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user and a compass device or software to determine what direction the mobile device is facing in order to identify the object . In still further embodiments the mobile device does not utilize any GPS data in the identification. In such embodiments markers utilized to identify the object are not location based.

The mobile device may generally include a processing device communicably coupled to such devices as a memory device user output devices user input devices a network interface a power source a clock or other timer a camera a positioning system device one or more chips etc.

In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more databases or datastores not shown to search for and or retrieve information related to the object and or marker. In some embodiments the mobile device and or the server access one or more datastores local to the mobile device and or server and in other embodiments the mobile device and or server access datastores remote to the mobile device and or server. In some embodiments the mobile device and or server access both a memory and or datastore local to the mobile device and or server as well as a datastore remote from the mobile device and or server

The processing device may include functionality to operate one or more software programs or applications which may be stored in the memory device . For example the processing device may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a web browser application . The web browser application may then allow the mobile device to transmit and receive web content such as for example location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like.

The processing device may also be capable of operating applications such as an object recognition application and or an AR presentment application . The object recognition application and or the AR presentment application may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory device of the mobile device . Alternatively the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in the chip . In such an embodiment the user may not need to download the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application from a server. In this way the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application may remain at the server such as the real time video image server within the server application .

The object recognition application provides the mobile device with object recognition capabilities. In this way objects such as products and or the like may be recognized by the object itself and or markers associated with the objects . This is described in further detail below with respect to . In this way the object recognition application may communicate with other devices on the network to determine the object within the real time video stream.

The AR presentment application provides the mobile device with AR capabilities. In this way the AR presentment application may provide superimposed indicators related to the object in the real time video stream such that the user may have access to the targeted offers by selecting an indicator superimposed on the real time video stream. The AR presentment application may communicate with the other devices on the network to provide the user with indications associated with targeted offers for objects in the real time video display. The presentation and selection of indicators provided to the user via the AR presentment application is described in further detail below with respect to .

The chip may include the necessary circuitry to provide the object recognition and or the AR functionality to the mobile device . Generally the chip will include data storage which may include data associated with the objects within a real time video stream that the object recognition application identifies as having a certain marker s . The chip and or data storage may be an integrated circuit a microprocessor a system on a chip a microcontroller or the like. As discussed above in one embodiment the chip may provide the object recognition and or AR functionality to the mobile device .

Of note while illustrates the chip as a separate and distinct element within the mobile device it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the chip functionality may be incorporated within other elements in the mobile device . For instance the functionality of the chip may be incorporated within the memory device and or the processing device . In a particular embodiment the functionality of the chip is incorporated in an element within the mobile device that provides object recognition and or the AR capabilities to the mobile device . Still further the chip functionality may be included in a removable storage device such as an SD card or the like.

The processing device may be configured to use the network interface to communicate with one or more other devices on a network such as but not limited to the real time video image server . In this regard the network interface may include an antenna operatively coupled to a transmitter and a receiver together a transceiver . The processing device may be configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system of the wireless telephone network that may be part of the network . In this regard the mobile device may be configured to operate with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation communication protocols and or the like. For example the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and or IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and or time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like. The mobile device may also be configured to operate in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms such as via a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication data networks.

The network interface may also include an application interface in order to allow a user to execute some or all of the above described processes with respect to the object recognition application the AR presentment application and or the chip . In some embodiments the application interface may further execute some or all of the above described processes with respect to the server application . The application interface may have access to the hardware e.g. the transceiver and software previously described with respect to the network interface . Furthermore the application interface may have the ability to connect to and communicate with an external data storage on a separate system within the network . In some embodiments the external data is stored in the memory device of the real time video image server .

As described above the mobile device may have a user interface that includes user output devices and or user input devices . The user output devices may include a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or the like and a speaker or other audio device which are operatively coupled to the processing device . The user input devices which may allow the mobile device to receive data from a user may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile device to receive data from a user such as a keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad microphone mouse joystick other pointer device button soft key and or other input device s .

The mobile device may further include a power source . Generally the power source is a device that supplies electrical energy to an electrical load. In some embodiment power source may convert a form of energy such as solar energy chemical energy mechanical energy etc. to electrical energy. Generally the power source in a mobile device may be a battery such as a lithium battery a nickel metal hydride battery or the like that is used for powering various circuits e.g. the transceiver circuit and other devices that are used to operate the mobile device . Alternatively the power source may be a power adapter that can connect a power supply from a power outlet to the mobile device . In such embodiments a power adapter may be classified as a power source in the mobile device.

The mobile device may also include a memory device operatively coupled to the processing device . As used herein memory may include any computer readable medium configured to store data code or other information. The memory device may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The memory device may also include non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively include an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like.

The memory device may store any of a number of applications or programs which comprise computer executable instructions code executed by the processing device to implement the functions of the mobile device described herein. For example the memory device may include such applications as an object recognition application an AR presentment application a web browser application an SMS application an email application etc.

The object recognition application may use any type of means in order to identify desired objects . For instance the object recognition application may utilize one or more pattern recognition algorithms to analyze objects in the environment and compare with markers in data storage which may be contained within the mobile device such as within chip or externally on a separate system accessible via the connected network such as but not limited to the real time video image server . For example the pattern recognition algorithms may include decision trees logistic regression Bayes classifiers support vector machines kernel estimation perceptrons clustering algorithms regression algorithms categorical sequence labeling algorithms real valued sequence labeling algorithms parsing algorithms general algorithms for predicting arbitrarily structured labels such as Bayesian networks and Markov random fields ensemble learning algorithms such as bootstrap aggregating boosting ensemble averaging combinations thereof and the like.

Upon identifying an object within the real time video stream the AR presentment application is configured to superimpose a virtual image on the mobile device display . The virtual image is generally a tab or link displayed such that the user may select the virtual image and retrieve information related to the identified object. The information may include any desired information associated with the selected object and may range from basic information to greatly detailed information. In some embodiments the virtual image may provide the user with an internet hyperlink to further information on the object . The information may include for example all types of media such as text images clipart video clips movies or any other type of information desired. In yet other embodiments the virtual image information related to the identified object may be visualized by the user without selecting the virtual image .

In embodiments in which the virtual image provided by the AR presentment application may provide an interactive tab to the user the user may select the virtual image by any conventional means for interaction with the mobile device . For instance in some embodiments the user may utilize an input device such as a keyboard to highlight and select the virtual image in order to retrieve the information. In a particular embodiment the mobile device display includes a touch screen that the user may employ to select the virtual image utilizing the user s finger a stylus or the like.

In some embodiments the virtual image is not interactive and simply provides information to the user by superimposing the virtual image onto the display . For example in some instances it may be beneficial for the AR presentment application to merely identify an object just identify the object s name title give brief information about the object etc. rather than provide extensive detail that requires interaction with the virtual image . The mobile device is capable of being tailored to a user s desired preferences.

Furthermore the virtual image may be displayed at any size on the mobile device display . The virtual image may be small enough that it is positioned on or next to the object being identified such that the object remains discernable behind the virtual image . Additionally the virtual image may be semi transparent such that the object remains discernable behind the virtual image. In other embodiments the virtual image may be large enough to completely cover the object portrayed on the display . Indeed in some embodiments the virtual image may cover a majority or the entirety of the mobile device display .

The user may opt to execute the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application at any desired moment and begin video capture and analysis. However in some embodiments the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application includes an always on feature in which the mobile device is continuously capturing video and analyzing the objects within the video stream. In such embodiments the object recognition application may be configured to alert the user that a particular object has been identified. The user may set any number of user preferences to tailor the AR experience to his needs. For instance the user may opt to only be alerted if a certain particular object is identified. Additionally it will be appreciated that the always on feature in which video is continuously captured may consume the mobile device power source more quickly. Thus in some embodiments the always on feature may disengage if a determined event occurs such as low power source low levels of light for an extended period of time e.g. such as if the mobile device is in a user s pocket obstructing a clear view of the environment from the mobile device if the mobile device remains stationary thus receiving the same video stream for an extended period of time the user sets a certain time of day to disengage etc. Conversely if the always on feature is disengaged due to the occurrence of such an event the user may opt for the always on feature to re engage after the duration of the disengaging event e.g. power source is re charged light levels are increased etc. .

In some embodiments the user may identify objects that the object recognition application does not identify and add it to the data storage with desired information in order to be identified and or displayed in the future. For instance the user may select an unidentified object and enter a name title and or any other desired information for the unidentified object . In such embodiments the object recognition application may detect record certain markers about the object so that the pattern recognition algorithm s or other identification means may detect the object in the future. Furthermore in cases where the object information is within the data storage but the object recognition application fails to identify the object e.g. one or more identifying characteristics or markers of the object has changed since it was added to the data storage or the marker simply was not identified the user may select the object and associate it with an object already stored in the data storage . In such cases the object recognition application and or AR presentment application may be capable of updating the markers for the object in order to identify the object in future real time video streams.

In addition in some embodiments the user may opt to edit the information or add to the information provided by the virtual object . For instance the user may opt to include user specific information about a certain object such that the information may be displayed upon a future identification of the object . Conversely in some embodiments the user may opt to delete or hide an object from being identified and a virtual object associated therewith being displayed on the mobile device display .

Furthermore in some instances an object may include one or more markers identified by the object recognition application that leads the object recognition application to associate an object with more than one object in the data storage . In such instances the user may be presented with the multiple candidate identifications and may opt to choose the appropriate identification or input a different identification. The multiple candidates may be presented to the user by any means. For instance in one embodiment the candidates are presented to the user as a list wherein the strongest candidate is listed first based on reliability of the identification. Upon input by the user identifying the object the object recognition application and or the AR presentment application may learn from the input and store additional markers in order to avoid multiple identification candidates for the same object in future identifications.

Additionally the object recognition application may utilize other bases for identification than identification algorithms. For instance the object recognition application may utilize the user s location time of day season weather speed of location changes e.g. walking versus traveling busyness e.g. how many objects are in motion versus stationary in the video stream as well any number of other conceivable factors in determining the identification of objects . Moreover the user may input preferences or other metrics for which the object recognition application may utilize to narrow results of identified objects .

In some embodiments the AR presentment application may have the ability to gather and report user interactions with displayed virtual objects . The data elements gathered and reported may include but are not limited to landscape elements and landscape areas. Such user interactions may be reported to any type of entity desired.

In some embodiments the information provided by the real time video stream may be compared to data provided to the system through an API. In this way the data may be stored in a separate application and be implemented by request from the mobile device and or server.

At block the user may capture images of landscape areas or landscape elements as part of a real time video stream. In some embodiments the user may point his her mobile device at a landscape area such as a yard park deck etc. In other embodiments the user may point his her mobile device at a landscape element such as trees flowers bushes rocks bricks pools decking furniture mulch etc. These landscape elements may be in a landscape area or in a retail store or business. Once the user has captured images the system may receive information associated with the image . The image may be a single frame of video e.g. a screenshot an entirety of a video or any portion in between. Additionally rather than video the user may opt to take a still picture of the environment. The image may further comprise of multiple single images compiled together. In some embodiments the system may recognize the landscape area within the captured image. In other embodiments the system may recognize the landscape elements within the captured image. In yet other embodiments the system may recognize landscape styles within the captured image.

Once the server application or mobile device receives the information associated with the image a comparison of the information from the image to identifying data to a directory stored in the memory device is performed as illustrated in block . The directory may first determine the landscape element or landscape area in the image from the information sent to the system. For example if the user is using real time video stream to identify his her backyard the data from the image the user took may provide data to the server application or the mobile device such that the factors associated with the landscape area that have been previously analyzed may be known. Second the directory may include a database of information for landscape elements and landscape styles. The information for landscape elements includes data about each landscape element as it pertains to the factors for landscape areas. Therefore once the system determines the landscape element in the image or manually inputted by the user the directory may compare the factors of the user s landscape area to the data of that particular landscape element to determine a score for that landscape element. The score of the landscape element provides an indication on how close of a match the landscape element is in relation to the landscape area based on the factors. In this way the system may score each element to determine which element may be best situated for the user s landscape area. The database for landscape styles functions similar to the database for landscape elements. In this way the system may determine a score for how closely the landscape element matches the landscape style of the user .

At block factors are analyzed with respect to a landscape area and or a landscape element to provide a recommended landscape element for a landscape area. The recommended landscape element is presented in the landscape area virtually on the mobile device of the user . In this way the user may virtually view his landscape area with landscape elements positioned in the area. Furthermore the user may be able to position the landscape elements into different positions within the area. Determining a recommended landscape element for a landscape area depends on the landscape element properties and how those properties coincide with the landscape area. To determine if the properties of the landscape elements are appropriate for a landscape area landscape area factors are analyzed. Landscape element properties allow the landscape element to work up to its maximum potential. For example a flower may require partial sun therefore the maximum potential of the flower is more likely to be reached if the flower is in partial sun. In another example a pool may reach its maximum potential when it is not located directly under a tree that may have leaves and other sediments that may fall into the pool and cause the filters to not work efficiently.

Landscape area factors include soil type global positioning data compass data dimensional data water and hardscape sun shade data climate range slope topography prevailing winds rain fall existing landscape and landscape styles . Soil type may aid in predicting the proper vegetation for a specific landscape area. Soil type may be analyzed by the system such that the system may recognize if the soil is clay based top soil nutrient rich soil etc. For example specific landscape elements may not grow to their maximum potential if they are in a clay based soil. However other landscape elements may thrive in a clay based soil environment. Therefore the system may determine the soil type of the landscape area in order to recommend landscape elements for the landscape area that may reach their maximum potential in the soil of the landscape area. In some embodiments the soil type may be determined by utilizing the other landscape area factors such as GPS data or compass data . In other embodiments the soil type may be determined by the system analyzing the captured image of the landscape area.

Global positioning data and compass data provide location and directional basis for the determination of a recommended landscape elements location within a landscape area. GPS data provides the location of the user s landscape area so that weather data latitudinal data and even soil type may be determined by GPS data . Compass data provides directional indicators of the landscape area such that sun shade regions of the landscape area may be determined. For example the compass data may determine where on the landscape area will be full sun partial sun or full shade. For example if a house is located in the landscape area the system will recognize that if the east side of the house will get morning light and the west side of the house will get afternoon light whereas the north and south sides of the house may be mostly shade.

Further global positioning data may provide the system with U.S. Department of Agriculture USDA zone data or data from Extension Offices. In this way the user may determine that if the landscape element is a proper element for that zone.

Global positioning data may also determine home owners association regulations local ordinances and the like. In this way the system may determine if the landscape element follow ordinances of the area. For example the user may wish to add a fence to his backyard. However the home owners association may only allow for a specific color size or material for the fence.

Dimensional data provides the system an indication of the size of the landscape area the user captures. In this way the system may determine the appropriate size and number of landscape elements for the particular landscape area such as the boundary lines or property lines for the landscape area. For example the system may recognize that a large pool tree or other landscape element may not fit into a landscape area thus those larger landscape elements may not be included as a recommended landscape element for the landscape area. The system may not only recognize the location for individual landscape elements but also for a group of landscape elements. For example the user may wish to place a vegetable garden in his her yard. Therefore the dimensional data may aid the system in determining an appropriate location for the vegetable garden. Dimensional data may also provide a determination as to the appropriate spacing of landscape elements. For example if the user wishes to plant several trees the system may recognize that spacing the trees two feet apart may look acceptable to the user now but as the trees grow the two foot spacing will not be adequate. In this way the system may allow the user to visualize a landscape area and proposed landscape area as it currently looks as well as in the future.

Water and hardscape data include land water features and hardscape features that may be in the landscape area. Land water features include depressions in the land where water may collect or high spot in the landscape area where the soil is dryer. In this way the land water features of the landscape area may provide an indication to which landscape elements may be placed in different positions in the landscape area. For example if a bush needs a lot of water the system may recommend placing the bush in a depression in the landscape area such that the bush may receive extra water. Hardscape features include where the user may have installed a rock retaining wall driveway gravel etc. such that those areas may not be suitable for many landscape elements.

Sun shade data is an analysis of the possible locations to position landscape elements within the landscape area with respect to how much sun or shade that location gets within the landscape area. Different locations within the landscape area may have full sun partial sun or full shade depending on the location s position within the landscape area. In this way the system may determine which landscape elements are appropriate within a specific location of the landscape area based on the amount of sun the location gets. For example if a location within the landscape area gets full sun a landscape element that requires full sun to reach its maximum potential will be recommended to be placed in that location. Sun shade data may also help the system predict if alternative energy sources such as solar panels or the like are a valid option for the user .

Climate range includes the range of temperatures that the landscape area will experience throughout the year. The change in temperatures will affect some landscape elements adversely thus the landscape elements may not reach their maximum potential.

Slope and topography data provides an indication as to the elevation changes within the landscape area. For example if the landscape area is below sea level it may get be in a wet environment that may be in a position to be flooding.

Prevailing winds data analyzes the prevailing winds of the landscape area to determine if the landscape elements are able to withstand winds within the region. For example heavier patio furniture may be recommended to a user who is near the coast line where there are constant stronger winds than the patio furniture recommended for a landscape area that is protected from the winds by mountains. Prevailing winds data may also help the system predict if alternative energy sources such as wind power or the like are a valid option for the user .

Rain fall data includes the average rain fall in an area per year. Some landscape elements such as desert plants require little rain fall to reach its potential growth where as others require several inches of rain fall a year to reach its potential growth.

The system reviews the existing landscape if any to reveal landscape elements that the user may like in the past so as to incorporate those or similar thereto landscape elements into the new landscape design. Existing landscape may also include pipelines irrigation lines electrical lines and the like that may be running under the ground of the landscape area.

The existing landscape may also provide the system with an indication as to insects animals or the like which may harm the growth or functionality of the landscape elements. For example the system may recognize a landscape element such as a bush that has leaves falling from it. The system may determine whether the leaves falling from the bush is a natural occurrence or if the leaves falling from the bush are caused by an invasive insect. If an insect is responsible the system may recommend a pesticide or the like to treat the bush with such that the insect will no longer disturb the bush. In some embodiments the system may also provide an attractant for animals. In this way the system may recommend bird feeders butterfly feeders or the like such that the landscape area may attract more animals.

Landscape styles include user desired landscape styles such as formal informal Tuscan Italian Mediterranean English garden topical Asian contemporary desert and or xeriscape styles. Landscape styles may also include styles from specific designers television shows or landscape architects. For example a user may like a particular famous garden such as one in Central Park or at the Biltmore Estate. Based on the landscape architect of that garden the system may provide similar landscape elements.

These factors are analyzed with respect to the landscape area and landscape elements. The directory comprises databases as mentioned above that have information relating to a verity of landscape elements. The databases contain information about the landscape elements with respect to the factors. Thus the system may determine the factors associated with the user s landscape area and subsequently select landscape elements that match those factors. A match between the landscape area of the user and the landscape elements of the database provides the method of recommending landscape element positions within the landscape area by the system.

As further detailed in once the factors are analyzed for providing a recommended landscape element into a landscape area in block in decision block a determination is made as to whether the mobile device is still capturing video stream of the landscape area or landscape elements. If no video stream is being captured then no indicator is presented in block . If a video stream is still being captured then in block indicators are continuing to be presented with respect to the landscape elements within the landscape area. The indicators are associated with a landscape element the user may visualize in a virtual landscape area environment. In some embodiments the virtual landscape area environment may be in current time. In some embodiments the system may provide the virtual landscape area environment in future time. In this way the user may visualize the potential growth of landscape elements over a period of several years. In yet other embodiments the virtual landscape area environment may be captured and the system may allow the user to communicate the captured image via social networking email texting or the like such that friends family and other individuals may vote whether they like or dislike the landscaped area. In some embodiments the user may select the indicator. The selected indicator may allow the user to obtain further detail about the landscape elements recommended for the landscape area in block . In some embodiments selecting the indicator allows the user to position the element in other locations within the landscape area. In yet other embodiments the user may be provided an offer to purchase the landscape elements recommended by the system when an indicator is selected.

If the user selects the indicator in block the user may be provided further detail about the landscape elements with respect to the landscape areas such as the properties of the landscape elements. For example the detailed information for the landscape elements may include the properties of the landscape elements. The properties of the landscape elements may include any aspects that allow the landscape element to reach its maximum potential whether that be growth long life etc. . For example a flower may require full sun therefore full sun may be required for the flower to meet its maximum potential.

If the user selects the indicator in block the user may also have the option of moving the landscape element within the virtual landscape area. In this way the user may view the landscape element in different positions within the landscape area so that he may make a determination of where he likes the landscape element positioned. The system may also provide a percentage of maximum potential for the landscape element when the user moves the element to a different location. For example the system may recommend a bush that requires shade and a lot of water in a position on the landscape area that has shade and a depression such that a large amount of water is present . However if the user moves the bush to a high spot in the landscape area that also receives full sun the bush may not reach its maximum potential. The system may recognize that there is only a fifty percent change the bush will survive to reach its maximum potential thus the system will provide the user with that information.

As further illustrated in at block a user may purchase a landscape element that has been recommended by the system when the user selects the indicator associated with the landscape element. In this way the user may add the landscape element to his her landscape area.

At block the user may capture images of the landscape elements in a retail store or business as part of a real time video stream. In some embodiments the user may point his mobile device at a landscape element such as trees flowers bushes rocks bricks pools decking furniture mulch etc. These landscape elements may in a retail store a business on television on the internet or the like. Similar to above with respect to once the user has captured images the system may receive the information associated with the image . Once the server application or mobile device receives the information associated with the image a comparison of the information from the image to identifying data or a directory stored in the memory device is performed as illustrated in block . The directory may determine the landscape element in the image from the information sent to the system. The directory may include manually inputted landscape elements.

Manual inputs may be provided by the user through the use of an interface social networking site by other selection methods which may include but are not limited to sending a communication via email text voice message video message conference or like means of selecting an opt in function. The user may opt in to using an interface such as a selection interface such as illustrated in .

The selection interface may be provided to the mobile device of the user by the server application . The user may access the interface in any means he would typically access the system or the Internet. provides one embodiment of a selection interface that allows a user to opt in to provide manually inputted landscape elements for consideration within the user s landscape area. The real time video image server receives a request from a user to manually input landscape elements.

The user may provide landscape elements he she wishes to consider in his her landscape area within the select landscape element section . In the select landscape element section the user may find landscape elements that he she wishes to incorporate into his her landscape area. In the landscape element section the user may search for landscape elements within a category of landscape elements listed. The landscape element categories include vegetation furniture entertainment and other .

If the user is searching for a landscape element the user may select a category from which to search for the landscape element in the landscape element section . Once the user has selected a category for example the vegetation category the user may select the method of searching from the find landscape element section . The methods of searching for a landscape element include the Internet a captured image or from a retail store . If the user selects the Internet the user is directed to a search engine to search for the landscape element. For example if the user is looking for a specific type of Oak tree the user may input the type of Oak tree into the search engine to find that specific Oak tree. The user may then add the Oak tree to his her directory by selecting the add button.

If the user has previously captured an image of a landscape element from one of the categories the user may select the category and up load the image. In this way the system may incorporate that landscape element into the landscape area of the user . The capturing of an image may have occurred using the mobile device a computer camera or the like.

The user may also search retailers for landscape items in section . Retailers may include a retail store a business a website of a retailer or business or the like. For example a user may be in a retail store that carries landscape elements. The user may see a landscape element that he she would like to include in his landscape area. Therefore the user may capture the landscape element and store it in the directory for positioning in his landscape area.

Once the user has found the landscape elements desired the user may add the landscape elements to a directory for the system to incorporate the landscape elements into the user s landscape area. In some embodiments the system is able to position the element in the user s landscape area immediately. For example if the user captures an image of a landscape element at a retail store the system may instantly position the element within the user s landscape area. In this way the user may have a virtual image of his her landscape area with the landscape element so that the user may decide if he she wishes to purchase that landscape element at the retailer.

Adding landscape elements from the directory may be done by the user in the landscape area section of the selection interface . In the landscape area section the user may select the landscape area to add the element to in section . For example a user may have multiple landscape areas he is landscaping. For example the user may be a landscape designer and have several clients in which he she is currently designing landscape for. In this way the user may select which landscape area he she would like to add a landscape element to in section . In section the user in this example has three areas to select from area area and area . Once the user has selected a landscape area to include the landscape element in the user may select the location of the landscape element in section . In this way the user may move the landscape element to the location within the landscape area that he she would like the landscape element to be positioned. The system will provide a recommendation to the user as to the most appropriate location for the landscape element but the user may position the element any location he she desires.

After the user has selected the landscape element and positioned the landscape element in the desired location within the landscape area the user may purchase the landscape element in section . If the user found the landscape element online at a retail store in a magazine in a showroom or the like the system will find the landscape element or a similar landscape element and provide a link for the user to purchase the landscape element. The system may directly connect with the user s financial institution to provide an easy payment method for the user . Once the user has completed using the selection interface the user may select the finished button so that the system may store the manual inputs from the user .

Using the selection interface or other means the user may provide manually inputted landscape elements that the user may wish to include in to his landscape area. The user may add these landscape elements at any time convenient to the user . Landscape elements may also be provided by the user through social networks the user may subscribe to.

Returning to after the system has received a captured image of a landscape element or the user has provided manual input factors of the landscape area are analyzed to determine a recommended location of the landscape elements in block . Once the factors are analyzed for providing a recommended landscape element into a landscape area in block in decision block a determination is made as to whether the mobile device is still capturing video stream of the landscape elements. If no video stream is being captured then no indicator is presented in block . If a video stream is still being captured then in block indicators are continuing to be presented with respect to the landscape elements. The indicators are associated with a landscape element the user may visualize in a virtual landscape area environment. In some embodiments the user may select the indicator. The selected indicator may allow the user to obtain further detail about the landscape element the user manually inputted and how the details of the landscape element relate to the user s landscape area in block .

If the user selects the indicator in block the user may have the option of purchasing the landscape element in block . The indicator may provide the user with the best price of the landscape element. For example the user may be at a retail store but the indicator may provide the user with an offer to purchase the same landscape element for a discounted rate as compared to the retail store. Therefore the user may elect to purchase the landscape element from the indicator instead of the retail store. Furthermore the system may provide the user with a direct link to the user s financial institution so that if the user chooses to purchase the landscape element the user may do so without communicating a payment method.

In some embodiments if the user selects the indicator in block the system may recommend the user not to purchase the landscape element. The system may analyze the landscape element selected compared to the landscape area of the user and determine that the landscape element does not match the landscape area. Therefore the system may recommend the user not purchase the landscape element. If this occurs the system may provide the user with other alternative landscape elements that are similar to the selected landscape element that may match the user s landscape area.

In various embodiments information associated with or related to one or more objects that is retrieved for presentation to a user via the mobile device may be permanently or semi permanently associated with the object. In other words the object may be tagged with the information. In some embodiments a location pointer is associated with an object after information is retrieved regarding the object. In this regard subsequent mobile devices capturing the object for recognition may retrieve the associated information tags and or pointers in order to more quickly retrieve information regarding the object. In some embodiments the mobile device provides the user an opportunity to post messages links to information or the like and associate such postings with the object. Subsequent users may then be presenting such postings when their mobile devices capture and recognize an object. In some embodiments the information gathered through the recognition and information retrieval process may be posted by the user in association with the object. Such tags and or postings may be stored in a predetermined memory and or database for ease of searching and retrieval.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as an apparatus including for example a system a machine a device a computer program product and or the like as a method including for example a business process a computer implemented process and or the like or as any combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium having computer executable program code portions stored therein. As used herein a processor may be configured to perform a certain function in a variety of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the functions by executing one or more computer executable program code portions embodied in a computer readable medium and or having one or more application specific circuits perform the function.

It will be understood that any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may include but is not limited to a non transitory computer readable medium such as a tangible electronic magnetic optical infrared electromagnetic and or semiconductor system apparatus and or device. For example in some embodiments the non transitory computer readable medium includes a tangible medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and or some other tangible optical and or magnetic storage device. In other embodiments of the present invention however the computer readable medium may be transitory such as a propagation signal including computer executable program code portions embodied therein.

It will also be understood that one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of the present invention may include object oriented scripted and or unscripted programming languages such as for example Java Perl Smalltalk C SAS SQL Python Objective C and or the like. In some embodiments the one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention are written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming languages and or similar programming languages. The computer program code may alternatively or additionally be written in one or more multi paradigm programming languages such as for example F .

It will further be understood that some embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of systems methods and or computer program products. It will be understood that each block included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by one or more computer executable program code portions. These one or more computer executable program code portions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer and or some other programmable data processing apparatus in order to produce a particular machine such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute via the processor of the computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the steps and or functions represented by the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

It will also be understood that the one or more computer executable program code portions may be stored in a transitory or non transitory computer readable medium e.g. a memory etc. that can direct a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the computer executable program code portions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction mechanisms which implement the steps and or functions specified in the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

The one or more computer executable program code portions may also be loaded onto a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer and or other programmable apparatus. In some embodiments this produces a computer implemented process such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute on the computer and or other programmable apparatus provide operational steps to implement the steps specified in the flowchart s and or the functions specified in the block diagram block s . Alternatively computer implemented steps may be combined with operator and or human implemented steps in order to carry out an embodiment of the present invention.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like have been disclosed that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user of mobile devices with commerce activities. Through the use real time vision object recognition objects logos artwork products locations and other features that can be recognized in the real time video stream can be matched to data associated with such to assist the user with commerce activity. The commerce activity may include but is not limited to conducting a transaction providing information about a product service providing rewards based information providing user specific offers or the like. In specific embodiments the data that matched to the images in the real time video stream is specific to financial institutions such as user financial behavior history user purchase power transaction history and the like. In this regard many of the embodiments herein disclosed leverage financial institution data which is uniquely specific to financial institution in providing information to mobile devices users in connection with real time video stream analysis.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

The systems methods computer program products etc. described herein may be utilized or combined with any other suitable AR related application. Non limiting examples of other suitable AR related applications include those described in the following U.S. Provisional patent applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference 

