---

title: Carbon nanofiber, dispersion liquid and composition thereof
abstract: The carbon nanofiber has a content of oxygen controlled in a range of 8% by mass to 20% by mass and excellent dispersibility in polar solvents by means of an oxidization treatment carried out on a raw material of the carbon nanofiber. The above-described oxidization treatment is preferably carried out at 100° C. or higher using an mixed acid of nitric acid and sulfuric acid in which the nitric acid concentration is in a range of 10% by mass to 30% by mass. A carbon nanofiber dispersion liquid is obtained by dispersing the above-described carbon nanofiber in a polar solvent, and a carbon nanofiber composition contains the above-described dispersion liquid and a binder component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09321650&OS=09321650&RS=09321650
owner: MITSUBISHI MATERIALS CORPORATION
number: 09321650
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121001
---
The present invention relates to a carbon nanofiber having dispersibility improved by controlling the content of oxygen a dispersion liquid and a composition thereof.

Priority is claimed on Japanese Patent Application No. 2011 216215 filed Sep. 30 2011 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

A variety of carbon nano materials typically carbon nanotubes have thus far been developed and are considered to be promising materials with various functions in a variety of usages such as conductive fillers thermal conduction materials light emitting elements electrode materials for batteries or capacitors wiring materials electrode bonding materials between wires reinforcing materials and black pigments.

However in general carbon nano materials form an aggregate immediately after being manufactured and it is extremely difficult to produce a state in which carbon nano materials are sufficiently dispersed in a solvent. As a result there is a problem in that when made into products carbon nano materials do not sufficiently exhibit their characteristics.

In the past as means of improving the dispersibility of carbon nano materials for example a carbon nano material having a surface oxidized by adding an oxidant to an acidic suspension of a fine carbon fiber PTL 1 carbon nano material into which a COOM group is introduced through wet oxidization using nitric acid or an mixed acid of nitric acid and sulfuric acid PTL 2 a carbon nano material into which a nitro group is introduced through an ultrasonic treatment in fuming nitric acid or an mixed acid of fuming nitric acid and concentrated sulfuric acid PTL 3 and the like are known.

However in the above described examples of the related art there was a problem in that the conductivity deteriorated due to the carbon nanofiber cut by an excessive oxidization treatment or the dispersibility was not sufficient due to an insufficient oxidization treatment or there as a problem in that since an organic solvent was used as a dispersion medium during nitration the dispersibility of the carbon nanofiber was not sufficient at a high concentration.

The invention has solved the above described problems of the related art and provides a highly conductive carbon nanofiber having dispersibility particularly excellent dispersibility at a high concentration a dispersion liquid which contains the above described carbon nanofiber and does not require a dispersant a paint composition and a paste composition which are manufactured using the above described dispersion liquid.

The invention relates to a carbon nanofiber which solves the above described problems using configurations described below the above described dispersion liquid a paint composition and a paste composition which contain a carbon nanofiber manufactured using the above described dispersion liquid.

 1 A carbon nanofiber in which a content of oxygen generated by an oxidization treatment is in a range of 8 by mass to 20 by mass.

 2 The carbon nanofiber according to the above 1 in which the content of oxygen is controlled in a range of 8 by mass to 20 by mass by carrying out the oxidization treatment at 100 C. or higher using an mixed acid of nitric acid and sulfuric acid in which a nitric acid concentration ratio is in a range of 10 by mass to 30 by mass.

 3 A carbon nanofiber dispersion liquid obtained by dispersing the carbon nanofiber according to the above 1 or 2 in one or more dispersion media selected from polar solvents.

 4 A paint composition or a paste composition containing the carbon nanofiber dispersion liquid according to the above 3 and a binder component.

 5 A conductive coated film formed using the paint composition or the paste composition according to the above 4 .

Compared with the related art the carbon nanofiber of the invention can be uniformly dispersed even at a high concentration particularly in an organic solvent. Furthermore it is possible to easily form conductive coated films having excellent conductivity using a paint composition or a paste composition for which a dispersion liquid of the above described carbon nanofiber is used.

The carbon nanofiber of the invention has a content of oxygen generated by an oxidization treatment in a range of 8 by mass to 20 by mass. Preferably the carbon nanofiber has a content of oxygen to be controlled in a range of 8 by mass to 20 by mass by carrying out an oxidization treatment on a raw material of the carbon nanofiber at 100 C. or higher using an mixed acid of nitric acid and sulfuric acid in which the nitric acid concentration ratio is in a range of 10 by mass to 30 by mass.

The raw material of the carbon nanofiber used in the invention preferably has a fiber diameter in a range of 1 nm to 100 nm an aspect ratio of 5 or more and a spacing of 002 plane in a graphite layer which is measured using X ray diffraction of 0.35 nm or less. Before and after the above described oxidization treatment the above described characteristics do not change. When the carbon nanofiber raw material of the carbon nanofiber is dispersed in a solvent a sufficient number of mutual contact points can be formed between carbon nanofiber strings as long as the fiber diameter and aspect ratio of the carbon nanofiber raw material of the carbon nanofiber are in the above described ranges and therefore it s possible to obtain a conductive coated film having a high conductivity. In addition since the carbon nanofiber having a lamellar spacing of 002 plane in the graphite layer which is measured using X ray diffraction in the above described range is highly crystalline the electrical resistance is small and thus it is possible to obtain highly conductive materials. Furthermore when the volume resistance value of a compact of the carbon nanofiber is 1.0 cm or less the compact exhibits favorable conductivity. In order to further intensify the above described effects the fiber diameter of the raw material of the carbon nanofiber is more preferably in a range of 5 nm to 50 nm the aspect ratio is more preferably in a range of 10 to 1000 and the spacing of 002 plane in the graphite layer which is measured using X ray diffraction is more preferably in a range of 0.337 nm to 0.345 nm but the above described characteristics are not limited to the above described ranges. In addition the volume resistance value of the compact of the carbon nanofiber is more preferably 0.5 cm or less but the volume resistance value is not limited to the above described range.

The above described carbon nanofiber can be manufactured using for example a vapor phase epitaxial method in which carbon monoxide is used as a principal raw material gas. The carbon nanofiber manufactured using a vapor phase epitaxial method has a color transmittance in toluene of approximately 95 or more and is excellent in terms of dispersibility and transparency. The color transmittance in toluene refers to the value of the degree of coloration of toluene extract which is obtained by extracting a carbon nanofiber using toluene represented by the transmittance of light rays with a specific wavelength 100 for pure toluene and is an index to indicate the amount of a non decomposed organic substance remaining in the carbon nanofiber. The color transmittance in toluene was obtained based on Section 6.2.4 of Method of Testing Carbon Black for Rubbers of JIS K 6221 1982. The color transmittance in toluene is more preferably 98 or more from the viewpoint of the balance between manufacturing costs dispersibility and transparency.

The carbon nanofiber of the invention is a fiber in which the content of oxygen is controlled to be in a range of 8 by mass to 0 by mass by carrying out an oxidization treatment on a carbon nanofiber. Generally the content of oxygen in the raw material of the carbon nanofiber is in a range of 0.1 by mass to 0.5 by mass immediately after the raw material of the carbon nanofiber is manufactured. When the content of oxygen in the carbon nanofiber that has undergone an oxidization treatment is less than 8 by mass the carbon nanofiber cannot be dispersed at a high concentration when it is attempted to disperse the carbon nanofiber in a solvent. On the other hand when the content of oxygen exceeds 20 by mass the conductivity degrades. The content of oxygen in the carbon nanofiber is more preferably in a range of 8 by mass to 15 by mass from the viewpoint of the balance between dispersibility and conductivity. The content of oxygen can be measured using for example an inert gas transportation and fusion infrared absorption method.

In the carbon nanofiber of the invention in order to control the content of oxygen in a range of 8 by mass to 20 by mass using an oxidization treatment it is preferable to for example carry out wet oxidization with treatment conditions adjusted to obtain a content of oxygen in a range of 8 by mass to 20 by mass using an mixed acid which is a mixture of nitric acid and sulfuric acid and has a nitric acid concentration ratio in a range of 10 by mass to 30 by mass.

When the mixed acid of nitric acid and sulfuric acid has a nitric acid concentration ratio of larger than 30 by mass the oxidation treatment becomes excessive and there is a high probability of the content of oxygen in the carbon nanofiber exceeding 20 by mass. On the other hand when the nitric acid concentration ratio is lower than 10 by mass the oxidation treatment becomes insufficient and there is a high probability of the content of oxygen in the carbon nanofiber becoming smaller than 8 by mass.

Meanwhile in a case in which the oxidization treatment is carried out on the carbon nanofiber using the mixed acid of nitric acid and sulfuric acid since the content of oxygen in the carbon nanofiber that has undergone the oxidization treatment is not always proportional to the nitric acid concentration ratio in the mixed acid as described in examples described below an mixed acid having a nitric acid concentration ratio which can achieve a content of oxygen in a range of 8 by mass to 20 by mass is used depending on the characteristics of the raw material of the carbon nanofiber or the treatment conditions. That is when nitric acid or sulfuric acid is solely used instead of the mixed acid of nitric acid and sulfuric acid the content of oxygen in the carbon nanofiber becomes less than 8 by mass in any cases.

The oxidization treatment may be carried out by immersing the raw material of the carbon nanofiber in the mixed acid of nitric acid and sulfuric acid and causing a reaction at a temperature of 100 C. or higher. The liquid temperature is preferably in a range of 100 C. to 200 C. and more preferably in a range of 100 C. to 160 C. At a liquid temperature of lower than 100 C. it is likely that the raw material of the carbon nanofiber may not be sufficiently oxidized and the content of oxygen in the carbon nanofiber may become less than 8 by mass. When the liquid temperature exceeds 200 C. it is likely that the oxidization treatment may become excessive. A preferable reaction time of the oxidization treatment is for example in a range of 30 minutes to 180 minutes but the rang is not limited. During the oxidization treatment it is preferable that the mixture be continuously stirred.

In the oxidization treatment the mass ratio of the mixed acid of nitric acid and sulfuric acid to the raw material of the carbon nanofiber is appropriately in a range of 1 part by mass to 100 parts by mass of the mixed acid to 1 part by mass of the raw material of the carbon nanofiber. The mass ratio is more preferably in a range of 10 parts by mass to 60 parts by mass.

When the oxidization treatment is carried out with the nitric acid concentration ratio of the mixed acid and the treatment conditions adjusted as described above a carboxyl group a carbonyl group or the like is introduced into the surface of the carbon nanofiber and the carbon nanofiber having a content of oxygen controlled in a range of 8 by mass to 20 by mass can be obtained. When an XPS analysis was carried out on the carbon nanofiber that has undergone the oxidization treatment it was determined that the peak quantitative value of a C O bond was in a range of 2 to 5 and oxygen had been introduced by a group having the C O bond. When the carbon nanofiber having the above described content of oxygen is dispersed in one or more dispersion media selected from polar solvents such as alcohols it is possible to obtain a dispersion having excellent dispersibility of the carbon nanofiber.

The carbon nanofiber of the invention can be dispersed in particularly polar solvents in an excellent manner and for example in a dispersion liquid dispersed in ethanol it is possible to increase the amount of the carbon nanofiber to an amount in a range of 0.05 g to 0.10 g per 1 g of the dispersion liquid at a haze of 1.0 or less. The haze refers to the value of among transmitted light rays that pass the dispersion liquid transmitted light rays deflected at 2.5 or more from incident light represented by percentage and the value of the haze decreases as the dispersibility of the carbon nanofiber increases.

When a binder component resin component is added to the carbon nanofiber dispersion liquid of the invention a paint composition or a paste composition can be obtained. In the above described composition since the resin component is an insulating component when the amount of the resin component is large and the amount of the carbon nanofiber is small the conductivity of the composition degrades. However the carbon nanofiber of the invention has favorable dispersibility and therefore the carbon nanofiber exhibits favorable conductivity at a small content in the composition and can produce favorable conductive coated films.

A preferable composition of the paint composition or the paste composition is for example a composition containing 32 by mass to 94.5 by mass of a polar solve 0.5 by mass to 8 by mass of the carbon nanofiber and 5 by mass to 60 by mass of the binder component. The composition may contain a non polar solvent in addition to the polar solvent as necessary and other necessary components may be added as the paint composition or the paste composition.

Examples of the polar solvent include water ethanol IPA cyclohexanone methyl ethyl ketone and N methyl pyrrolidone NMP . Examples of the binder component include acryl resins polyester resins polyimide resins epoxy resins and the like but the binder component is not limited thereto.

Hereinafter examples of the invention will be described together with comparative examples. Meanwhile the invention is not limited to the examples.

A commercially available carbon nanofiber abbreviated to CNF manufactured by Mitsubishi Materials Corporation fiber diameter of 20 nm aspect ratio of 5 or more was used as a raw material a commercially available concentrated nitric acid concentration of 60 by mass and a commercially available concentrated sulfuric acid concentration of 95 by mass were used and a surface oxidization treatment was carried out under conditions described in Table 1 thereby obtaining a surface treated CNF having a controlled content of oxygen. The results of the oxidization treatment are described in Table 1. The content of oxygen was measured using an inert gas transportation and fusion infrared absorption method.

As described in Table 1 when the nitric acid concentration ratio in the mixed acid was less than 10 the oxidization became insufficient and the content of oxygen in CNF failed to reach 10 by mass Comparative Example 1 . In addition even when the nitric acid concentration ratio in the mixed acid is slightly larger than 30 the oxidization became excessive and the content of oxygen in CNF exceeded 20 by mass Comparative Example 2 . Therefore it was found that it was preferable to use an mixed acid having a nitric acid concentration ratio in a range of 10 to 30 . Meanwhile when nitric acid or sulfuric acid is solely used the content of oxygen in CNF became less than 8 by mass in any cases Comparative Examples 4 and 5 .

In the above described range of the nitric acid concentration ratio the content of oxygen in CNF was larger in the case of a nitric acid concentration ratio of 14 Example 1 than in the case of a nitric acid concentration ratio of 30 Example 4 and the content of oxygen in CNF was not always proportional to the nitric acid concentration ratio of the mixed acid. However when the nitric acid concentration ratio of the mixed acid was more than 30 the content of oxygen in CNF exceeded 20 by mass due to the excessive oxidization treatment and on the other hand when the nitric acid concentration ratio was less than 10 the content of oxygen in CNF failed to reach 10 by mass due to insufficient oxidization. Therefore it was determined that the mixed acid having a nitric acid concentration ratio in a range of 10 to 30 was preferable. In the above described range of the nitric acid concentration ratio it was determined that as the treatment conditions which could obtain a content of oxygen in CNF in a range of 8 to 20 for example the liquid temperature was appropriately 100 C. or higher and was preferably in a range of 100 C. to 160 C. In addition the ratio of the amount of mixed acid to the amount of carbon nanofiber was appropriately in a range of 1 part by mass to 100 parts by mass of the mixed acid to 1 part by mass of CNF.

CNF in Table 1 was dried so as to produce powder the powder was mixed with ethanol and an ethanol dispersion liquid was prepared using a beads mill. The contents of CNF in the dispersion liquids are described in Table 2. The dispersion liquid was mixed with an acryl resin solution so that the content of CNF in a dried coated film solid content became 4.5 by mass thereby preparing a paint composition. The paint composition contained 68.6 by mass of a polar solvent 1.4 by mass of the carbon nanofiber and 30 by mass of a binder component. The paint composition was applied to a surface of a 100 m thick polyester film using a bar coater so as to obtain an application amount of 0.25 g m and dried at 80 C. for 3 minutes thereby producing a coated film.

The haze of the CNF dispersion liquid the surface resistivity of the coated film and the haze of the coated film were measured. The hazes were measured using a haze meter HGM 3D trade name manufactured by Suga Test Instruments Co. Ltd. The haze value of the dispersion liquid including the haze of a quartz cell 0.3 was measured by diluting the dispersion liquid using a dispersion medium ethanol so as to obtain a CNF concentration of 40 ppm and putting the diluted solution into the quartz cell having an optical path length of 3 mm. The measured haze of the coated film included the haze 1.8 of the polyester film which was a base film. The surface resistivity ohm per square of the coated film was measured using HIRESTA UP MCD H450 trade name manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation and concentric ring probe. The results are described in Table 2.

As described in Table 2 CNF was not dispersed in the solvent in Comparative Examples 4 and 5 in which the content of oxygen was in a range of 2 by mass to 3 by mass. In addition since CNF has a small content of oxygen of 6 by mass in Comparative Example 1 when the amount of CNF in the dispersion liquid was large 10 wt in Comparative Example 1a CNF was not dispersed and when the amount of CNF was 5 by mass CNF was dispersed but the hazes of the dispersion liquid and the coated film became high Comparative Example 1b . In Comparative Example 2 in which the content of oxygen was larger than 20 by mass CNF exhibited favorable dispersibility in the solvent but the surface resistivity of the coated film became high. In addition in Comparative Example 3 in which the content of oxygen was 5 by mass CNF exhibited poor dispersibility in the solvent and the haze of the dispersion liquid and the haze of the coated film became significantly high.

On the other hand in CNF the content of oxygen was in a range of 8 by mass to 20 by mass of A1 to A6 the hazes of the dispersion liquids having a concentration of CNF diluted to 40 ppm were 0.6 or less and the hazes of the coated film having a content of CNF of 4.5 by mass were 2.2 or less CNF exhibited favorable dispersibility had a surface resistivity of 5.6 10or less and high conductivity.

The carbon nanofiber of the invention can be uniformly dispersed even at a high concentration particularly in an organic solvent. Furthermore it is possible to easily form conductive coated films having excellent conductivity using a paint composition or a paste composition for which a dispersion liquid of the above described carbon nanofiber is used and therefore the carbon nanofiber is industrially available.

