---

title: Microporous coordination complex and method of making the same
abstract: Disclosed herein is a three-dimensional coordination complex that includes a plurality of inorganic centers; a plurality of a first bis(bidentate) linker; and a plurality of a second bis(bidentate) linker, where the first and the second bis(bidentate) linkers are have different lengths, and the bidentate binding sites on each linker face in opposite directions on an axis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09353129&OS=09353129&RS=09353129
owner: The Regents Of The University Of Michigan
number: 09353129
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120706
---
This application is a 371 U.S. National Phase application of PCT US2012 045700 filed Jul. 6 2012 published in English as WO 2013 006767 A2 on Jan. 10 2013 and republished with amended claims on May 2 2013 as WO 2013 006767 A4. This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 504 945 filed Jul. 6 2011. The entire disclosures of both applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. DE SC0004888 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The disclosure generally relates to highly porous coordination complexes defined by an inorganic center and at least two different bis bidentate linkers bound to that center. The complexes can be used for example in gas storage separation and catalysis.

Due to the importance of internal surface area in various applications including gas storage separation and catalysis many researchers have made efforts to discover porous materials with high surface areas. Even though thousands of microporous coordination polymers MCPs have been reported to date few materials possess Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface areas over 4000 m g. Those materials that do possess such high surface areas tend to require organic linkers that are not readily available at reasonable costs.

Benzene 1 4 dicarboxylic acid also known as terephthalic acid is used as a monomer for synthesis of various polymers e.g. polyethylene terephthalate and as an organic linker in microporous coordination polymers. For example benzene 1 4 dicarboxylic acid reacts with zinc nitrate to yield ZnO benzene 1 4 dicarboxylate MOF 5 which has a cubic network structure in the Fm3m space group. MOF 5 has been broadly explored in the porous material field. The BET surface area of MOF 5 is approximately 3200 m g.

Naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylic acid reacts with zinc nitrate to yield a material formulated as ZnO naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate IRMOF 8 the structure of which is somewhat ambiguous. It has been suggested that IRMOF 8 has an interpenetrated structure and accordingly the experimental BET surface area 1500 m g of IRMOF 8 is much lower than accessible surface area derived from the theoretical non interpenetrated crystal structure 4390 m2 g .

Generally the prior art does not sufficiently teach or suggest to one of ordinary skill in the art how to further increase the available surface area of these microporous materials.

Disclosed herein is a coordination complex and a method of making the same wherein the complex has a non interpenetrated structure high structural stability and surprisingly high surface area and pore volume.

One embodiment is a three dimensional coordination complex that is made of a plurality of inorganic centers and a plurality of at least two different bis bidentate linkers. The different linkers can have different lengths.

The three dimensional coordination complex can be made of ZnO and benzene 1 4 dicarboxylate and naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate linkers or can be made of ZnO and naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate and biphenyl 4 4 dicarboxylate linkers.

These three dimensional coordination complexes can be made by preparing an admixture of a precursor complex such as a plurality of inorganic centers and the two different bis bidentate linkers that are present in the admixture in a specified ratio relative to each other and precipitating the coordination complex formed from the mixture.

Additional features of the invention may become apparent to those skilled in the art from a review of the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the drawings the examples and the appended claims.

While the disclosed complexes and methods are susceptible of embodiments in various forms there are illustrated in the drawing and will hereafter be described specific embodiments of the disclosure with the understanding that the disclosure is intended to be illustrative and is not intended to limit the invention to the specific embodiments described and illustrated herein.

Conventionally it is believed that the elongation of an organic linker in the cubic net structure should lead to increasing pore volume and surface area. However this linear elongation approach has met with severe limitations with regard to improving surface area. Specifically expanding free volume is often accompanied by structural interpenetration which reduces surface area by creating inaccessible regions where two frameworks are in contact. Non interpenetrated cubic MCPs have been produced by solvothermal reaction under dilute conditions or by a surface induced method. However these approaches are not suited to bulk production.

Unexpectedly it has been found that linear organic ligands can be utilized to form a homogeneous non interpenetrating stable microporous material. This is a marked advancement in that it is now possible to prepare microporous materials with unexpectedly high surface area and unexpectedly high pore volume heretofore unattainable. In one specific embodiment for example two linear organic ligands benzene 1 4 dicarboxylic acid and naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylic acid react with zinc nitrate to yield a microporous coordination polymer product with three benzene 1 4 dicarboxylate linkers and three naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate linkers coordinated to a ZnO cluster. The product has a non interpenetrated structure and high structural stability after removal of solvent molecules resulting in surprisingly high surface area and high pore volume.

More generally disclosed herein is a three dimensional coordination complex that includes a plurality of inorganic centers a plurality of a first bis bidentate linker and a plurality of a second bis bidentate linker. Commonly coordination complexes including a plurality of inorganic centers are also referred to as coordination polymers. As used herein coordination complex refers to compounds having a single inorganic center with linkers bound thereto as well as compounds having a plurality of inorganic centers with linkers bound thereto such as a coordination polymer. The first and second bis bidentate linkers are bound to the inorganic centers through bidentate binding sites. Preferably each individual inorganic center is bound to at least one of the first bis bidentate linkers and at least one of the second bis bidentate linkers. The inorganic centers are preferably cationic. Furthermore the inorganic centers are preferably hexacoordinate pentacoordinate tetracoordinate or a mixture thereof. In one example the inorganic centers are entirely hexacoordinate.

As described in more detail below each of the bis bidentate linkers has a length. Thus the first bis bidentate linker has a first length. Additionally the first bis bidentate linker can have at least Csymmetry theoretical symmetry where the horizontal plane implicit in Csymmetry contains the bis bidentate binding sites. In the coordination complex the two bidentate binding sites individually bind to different separate inorganic centers. As used herein the symmetry descriptions such as C or plane refer to the theoretical symmetry of the linker and should be understood to include any distortions in symmetry resulting from coordination.

The second bis bidentate linker has a second length which is different from that of the first length. The second bis bidentate linker can have at least one plane that contains the bis bidentate binding sites in the idealized structure . These two bidentate binding sites face in opposite directions along an axis optionally offset in a transverse direction relative to this axis as shown for example in . In the coordination complex the second linker s bidentate binding sites each individually bind to different separate inorganic centers.

Herein the length of the linkers is a measure of the distance between the two bidentate binding sites along an axis irrespective of the offset in a traverse direction relative to that axis. By way of example shows the relative lengths of a benzene 1 4 dicarboxylate and a naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate. As shown the length is the minimum distance from a ligate atom of a first bidentate site to a ligate atom of a second bidentate site . The first and the second linkers of the coordination complex have different lengths relative to each other and the length of the longer linker either the first or the second linker is about 1.1 to about 1.5 more preferably about 1.2 to about 1.4 and even more preferably about 1.3 times the length of the shorter linker the other of the first or the second linker . In one example the first bis bidentate linker is the longer length bis bidentate linker that is the first length is longer than the second length. In another example the second bis bidentate linker is the longer length bis bidentate linker.

The coordination complex can include the first and second linkers in a ratio from about 1 10 to about 10 1 preferably about 1 5 to about 5 1 more preferably about 1 2 to about 2 1 and even more preferably of about 1 1. In a preferred embodiment the coordination complex includes the inorganic center first linker second linker in a ratio of 2 3 3.

The coordination complex is preferably a mixed coordination complex. A mixed coordination complex includes inorganic centers that have ligands that include both the first bis bidentate linker and the second bis bidentate linker. The coordination complex can have an inorganic center that is bound to both at least one first bis bidentate linker and at least one second bis bidentate linker. The coordination complex can be hexacoordinate that is bound to six ligands at least two of which include the first and the second bis bidentate linkers preferably at least four of which include the first and second bis bidentate linkers and more preferably at least six of which include the first and second bis bidentate linkers. Preferably the six linkers consist essentially of 1 5 first bis bidentate linkers and 1 5 second bis bidentate linkers.

Exemplary structures are illustrated in . As shown in combining two linear linkers of different lengths with octahedral metal clusters can yield two cubic cages and two tetragonal cages. As shown in when three short and three long linkers coordinate to an octahedral cluster two possible coordination modes with meridional and facial fashion can be generated. The framework of the facial coordination mode is built with the assembly of two cubic cages in a corner sharing fashion and the assembly of two tetragonal cages in a face sharing fashion. On the other hand in the meridional mode the framework is built with two tetragonal cage layers alternating.

As provided above the inorganic centers are preferably cationic and preferably are hexacoordinate pentacoordinate tetracoordinate or a mixture thereof. Herein the coordination of the inorganic center is determined by the number of ligands linkers that the inorganic center can theoretically bind. While one of ordinary skill may correctly argue that the binding of the bidentate linkers requires two coordination sites as used herein the number of coordination sites is counted based on the number of linkers supported at the inorganic center in the coordination complex not the total number of coordination sites . In one example the inorganic centers are entirely hexacoordinate. One example of an inorganic center that is hexacoordinate is MO wherein M is a metal and can be selected from the group including but not limited to Zn Be Mg and Co. The MO inorganic center coordinates six carboxylates in an octahedron geometry. For example the hexacoordinate inorganic center can be ZnO. Another example of a hexacoordinate inorganic center is MO wherein M includes but is not limited to Fe Cr Ru Mn V Ni Sc Co Ir al Zn Ga Nb Mo W and combinations thereof. The MO inorganic center coordinates six carboxylates to form a trigonal prism geometry. Yet another example of a hexacoordinate inorganic center is M. In some embodiments with an Minorganic center M includes but is not limited to Cu Pd and combinations thereof and the inorganic center coordinates six carboxylates to form a trigonal prism geometry. In other embodiments with an Minorganic center M includes but is not limited to Zn Co La Mn Mg and combinations thereof and the inorganic center coordinates six carboxylates in an octahedral geometry. The inorganic center can also be entirely tetracoordinate. One example of a tetracoordinate inorganic center is M wherein M includes but is not limited to Ru Cu Rh Mo Fe Ni Co Re Cr Zn Mn W Tc Os Cd Bi Pt Al Mg In and combinations thereof. The Minorganic center coordinates four carboxylates in a square paddle wheel geometry. In embodiments including a plurality of inorganic centers one or more of the inorganic centers can be hexacoordinate as described above and or tetracoordinate as described above.

The first and the second bis bidentate linkers can include ligate atoms selected from oxygen nitrogen sulfur and mixtures thereof. Examples of bidentate functionalities include carboxylates thiocarboxylates amides and thioamides. The bis bidentate linkers can have two of the same bidentate functionalities or can have different bidentate functionalities. Examples of suitable bis bidentate linkers with the same bidentate functionalities include those of formulas A H 

With reference to formulas A H selection of the first and second linkers can be made such that they have different lengths as discussed above. For example the first and second bis bidentate linkers can be selected respectively from neighboring linkers in the formulas above. For example the first bis bidentate linker can be formula A and the second bis bidentate linker can be formula B first bis bidentate linker can be formula B and the second bis bidentate linker can be formula A or C first bis bidentate linker can be formula C and the second bis bidentate linker can be formula B D or D first bis bidentate linker can be formula D or D and the second bis bidentate linker can be formula C E or F first bis bidentate linker can be formula E and the second bis bidentate linker can be formula D D F or G first bis bidentate linker can be formula F and the second bis bidentate linker can be formula E G or H .

Furthermore the bis bidentate linkers can include functionalities in addition to the requisite two bidentate binding sites. For example a bis bidentate linker can be a benzene 1 4 dicarboxylate of formula I 

Examples of coordination complexes include ZnO benzene 1 4 dicarboxylate naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate and ZnO naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate biphyenyl 4 4 dicarboxylate .

Preferably the coordination complex is essentially free of a physical admixture of A a first crystalline coordination complex that consists of the inorganic center and the first bis bidentate linker with B a second crystalline coordination complex that consists of the inorganic center and the second bis bidentate linker. Thus the coordination complex is preferably homogeneous and comprises a single phase.

In one example when the coordination complex is ZnO benzene 1 4 dicarboxylate naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate the coordination complex preferably is essentially free of an admixture of ZnO benzene 1 4 dicarboxylate and ZnO naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate . Herein essentially free of means that that composition does not contain micro or macro crystalline materials that have the formula ZnO benzene 1 4 dicarboxylate or ZnO naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate . One way to determine if the coordination complex is essentially free of ZnO benzene 1 4 dicarboxylate or ZnO naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate is powder X ray diffraction. The coordination complex is understood to be essentially free of ZnO benzene 1 4 dicarboxylate or ZnO naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate when the powder X ray diffraction pattern does not contain diffraction peaks corresponding to ZnO benzene 1 4 dicarboxylate or ZnO naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate with a relative peak intensity of greater than 5 4 3 2 or 1 of the 100 peak most intense peak .

Preferably the ZnO benzene 1 4 dicarboxylate naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate coordination complex has powder X ray diffraction peaks at 6.3 and 8.9 degrees 2 . More preferably the coordination complex also has powder X ray diffraction peaks at 12.6 and 14.1 degrees 2 .

In another example when the coordination complex is ZnO naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate biphyenyl 4 4 dicarboxylate the coordination complex preferably is essentially free of an admixture of ZnO naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate and ZnO biphenyl 4 4 dicarboxylate . Preferably the ZnO naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate biphyenyl 4 4 dicarboxylate coordination complex has powder X ray diffraction peaks at 5.5 and 7.8 degrees 2 . More preferably the coordination complex also has powder X ray diffraction peaks at 9.5 and 11.0 degrees 2 .

In another aspect of this embodiment the coordination complex has an open porous structure. One method for determining the porosity of the coordination complex is through a Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area measurement. The coordination complex preferably has a BET surface area of at least 3000 m g and more preferably at least 3500 m g. Another method of determining the porosity of the coordination complex is through nitrogen uptake measurements. The coordination complex preferably has a Nuptake at 77K of at least 800 cm g more preferably 850 cm g even more preferably 900 cm g and still more preferably 950 cm g. More preferably the maximum Nuptake at 77 K is greater than 800 cm g more preferably 850 cm g even more preferably 900 cm g and still more preferably 950 cm g.

A first specific embodiment is a crystalline porous homogeneous composition comprising a plurality of ZnO clusters a plurality of benzene 1 4 dicarboxylate each individually bound to the plurality of ZnO clusters and a plurality of naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate each individually bound to the plurality of ZnO clusters. This crystalline porous homogeneous composition preferably has powder X ray diffraction peaks at 6.3 and 8.9 degrees 2 and more preferably has additional powder X ray diffraction peaks at 12.6 and 14.1 degrees 2 .

A second specific embodiment is a crystalline porous homogeneous composition comprising a plurality of ZnO clusters a plurality of naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate each individually bound to the plurality of ZnO clusters and a plurality of biphenyl 4 4 dicarboxylate each individually bound to the plurality of ZnO clusters. This crystalline porous homogeneous composition preferably has powder X ray diffraction peaks at 5.5 and 7.3 degrees 2 and more preferably has additional powder X ray diffraction peaks at 9.5 and 11.0 degrees 2 .

Each first and second specific embodiments individually and preferably has a BET surface area of at least 3000 m g more preferably at least 3500 m g. Furthermore each first and second specific embodiments individually and preferably has a Nuptake at 77 K of at least 800 cm g more preferably 850 cm g even more preferably 900 cm g and still more preferably 950 cm g.

The above described coordination complexes can be made by preparing an admixture of A a salt acid or ester of a first bis bidentate linker B a salt acid or ester of a second bis bidentate linker C a precursor complex and preferably D a solvent and precipitating the three dimensional coordination complex. Alternative methods can include the application of a voltage sufficient to drive an electrochemical reaction e.g. to oxidize or reduce the precursor complex or the application of radiation e.g. visual or UV light sufficient to drive a photochemical reaction. Precipitating the three dimensional coordination complex can include maintaining reaction conditions for a sufficient period of time to permit the three dimensional coordination complex to form and deposit as a crystalline material adding precipitant e.g. a solution that includes a base or cooling the solution to a temperature sufficient to reduce the solubility and deposit the three dimensional coordination complex. A further step in the method can include removing solvent present in the precipitated three dimensional coordination complex.

In this embodiment the precursor complex is a metal containing material that is included in the inorganic centers of the three dimensional coordination complex. The precursor complex can be a metal salt e.g. zinc salts including zinc nitrate zinc sulfate zinc chloride or zinc hydroxide or a metal cluster e.g. ZnO benzoate . The first and the second bis bidentate linkers can be provided as salts acids or esters of the respective anionic bis bidentate linker. One of ordinary skill will appreciate that salts or acids of the anionic bis bidentate linker requires a cationic atom or molecule to balance the charge. The cationic atom can be a proton H Na K NR PR or mixtures thereof where R is a proton or an organic fragment e.g. CH CH CH CH or a mixture thereof . Specific examples include the benzene 1 4 dicarboxylic acid naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylic acid and biphenyl 4 4 dicarboxylic acid.

The following examples are provided to illustrate the invention but are not intended to limit the scope thereof.

Benzene 1 4 dicarboxylic acid 0.184 g 1.11 mmol and naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylic acid 0.239 g 1.11 mmol were dissolved in 100 mL of N N diethylformamide and the solution was clarified by filtration. Zn NO 6HO 1.70 g 5.72 mmol was added to the solution. The mixture was sonicated for 15 min and heated to 85 C. After 1 day crystals of a single phase were obtained. After cooling to room temperature the product was isolated by decanting the mother liquor and washing with N N dimethylformamide 3 100 mL . The resulting solid was then immersed in 100 mL CHClfor 2 days during which time the CHClwas replaced three times. The solvent was removed under vacuum at room temperature yielding the porous material.

Characterization of the prepared materials was by visual inspection powder X ray diffraction Nuptake BET surface area measurement and NMR 

NUptake Nadsorption desorption isotherms were measured volumetrically at 77 K in the range 1.00 10 P P 1.00 with an Autosorb 1 C outfitted with the micropore option by Quantachrome Instruments Boynton Beach Fla. USA running version 1.2 of the ASWin software package. Ultra high purity He 99.999 for void volume determination and N 99.999 were purchased from Cryogenic Gasses and used as received. The sample exchanged with CHClwas charged into a sample cell and dried under vacuum 

BET Surface Area The BET surface area values were calculated from the Nuptake data W above . The data was plotted according to equation 1 1 1 1 1 1 where P and Pare the equilibrium and saturation pressures of Nat 77K as determined from the Nuptake data W is the quantity of absorbed N and Wis the quantity of gas absorbed as a monolayer C is the BET constant. In the BET plot of 1 W P P 1 vs. P P the slope and the intercept were used to calculate W. The total surface area was then calculated based on the equation S WN s V where N is Avagadro s number s is the adsorption cross section and V is the molar volume of absorbed gas.

The Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area is 4030 m g and this value matched well with the theoretical surface area approximately 4040 m g calculated from the crystal structure.

The composition of linkers in the product was confirmed by the following procedure the fully dried compounds were decomposed in 1 M NaOH in DO solution. The decomposed sample was characterized by H NMR. Using the singlet peak at 7.60 ppm resulted from 4H of benzene 1 4 dicarboxylate and two doublet peaks at 7.70 ppm and 7.80 ppm and one singlet peak at 8.16 ppm resulted from 2H of naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylate the composition of the compounds was evaluated and the experimental composition of two linkers matched well with the theoretical value from the crystal structure.

Naphthalene 2 6 dicarboxylic acid 28.7 mg 0.13 mmol and biphenyl 4 4 dicarboxylic acid 35.6 mg 0.15 mmol were dissolved in the mixture of 6.7 mL of N N diethylformamide and 13.3 mL of N methylpyrrolidone and the solution was clarified by filtration. Zn NO 6HO 0.238 g 0.800 mmol was added to the solution. The mixture was sonicated for 15 min and heated to 85 C. After 4 days crystals of a single phase were obtained. After cooling to room temperature the product was isolated by decanting the mother liquor and washing with N N dimethylformamide 3 20 mL . The resulting solid was then immersed in 20 mL CHClfor 2 days during which time the CHClwas replaced three times. Activation was performed with a Jasco PU 1580 COdelivery pump equipped with a back pressure regulator Jasco 1580 81 . The CHClsoaked sample was placed in a metal column and CHClwas exchanged with liquid COat 100 bar. The liquid COcharged column was heated at 35 C. for 30 min. COwas vented over 30 minutes via a back pressure regulator to obtain an activated three dimensional coordination polymer.

The Brunauer Emmett Teller BET surface area of the resulting material was 4970 m g which corresponded well with the theoretical surface area 4900 m g calculated from the crystal structure.

The foregoing description is given for clearness of understanding only and no unnecessary limitations should be understood therefrom as modifications within the scope of the invention may be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art.

