---

title: Demagnetization using a determined estimated magnetic state
abstract: A method for demagnetizing comprising positioning a core within the electromagnetic field generated by a first winding until the generated first electrical current is not substantially increasing, thereby determining a saturation current. A second voltage, having the opposite polarity, is then applied across the first winding until the generated second electrical current is approximately equal to the magnitude of the determined saturation current. The maximum magnetic flux within the core is then determined using the voltage across said first winding and the second current. A third voltage, having the opposite polarity, is then applied across the first winding until the core has a magnetic flux equal to approximately half of the determined maximum magnetic flux within the core.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08934210&OS=08934210&RS=08934210
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08934210
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120628
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and the inventors at the Bonneville Power Administration.

The present invention relates to the demagnetization of a material exhibiting magnetic hysteresis preferably a core of a transformer.

High voltage power transformers are essential to modern day power systems. The expense of a network transformer a transmission class high voltage power transformer is such that even a single loss can be a significant financial burden. Additionally power transformer failure causes electrical outages resulting in possible economic disasters. A failure may also damage equipment connected to the transformer further increasing the economic impact. Therefore it is recommended that the condition of power transformers be routinely checked preferably including the use of a resistance test. This allows an electric distribution entity to minimize failures while also minimizing cost. A necessary but ultimately undesirable consequence of testing is residual magnetization. If the transformer is left magnetized it will increase peak electrical currents leading to damage of electronic components in the system. Therefore there is a need to quickly and reliably demagnetize transformers preferably while also testing the health of the transformer.

One method for demagnetizing comprises providing a core. The core is positioned within the electromagnetic field generated by a first winding upon application of a first voltage across the first winding. The first voltage is applied across the first winding generating a first electrical current through the first winding until the generated first electrical current is not substantially increasing thereby determining a saturation current.

After applying the first voltage across the first winding a second voltage is applied across the first winding generating a second electrical current through the first winding until the generated second electrical current is approximately equal to the magnitude of the determined saturation current. The polarity of the second voltage is opposite of the polarity of the first voltage. During the application of the second voltage across the first winding a value related to the maximum magnetic flux within the core is determined preferably by a processor using a value relating to the voltage across the first winding and a value relating to the second current.

After applying the second voltage across the first winding applying a third voltage across the first winding generating a third electrical current through the first winding until the core has a value related to the magnetic flux the same relation as the determined value related to the maximum magnetic flux equal to approximately half of the determined value related to the maximum magnetic flux within the core. The polarity of the third voltage is opposite of the polarity of the second voltage.

In a preferred embodiment the electrical resistance across the first winding is determined from the voltage across the first winding and the first electrical current and health characteristics are determined for the core using a predetermined dataset corresponding to the core. Preferably Ohm s law is used to calculate the resistance of the first winding from the voltage across the first winding divided by the electrical current through the first winding. Preferably the first voltage is used as the voltage across the first winding when calculating the electrical resistance of the first winding. More preferably the voltage across the first winding when calculating the electrical resistance of the first winding is measured directly using a volt meter.

In one embodiment the flux linkage of the first winding is used to estimate the magnetic flux within the core. In a preferred embodiment of using the flux linkage of the first winding to estimate the magnetic flux within the core the step of determining a value related to the maximum magnetic flux within the core comprises measuring the electrical current through the first winding during the application of the second voltage and calculating a value related to the integral of the voltage across the first winding with respect to time minus a value related to the integral of the product of the winding resistance and the electrical current through the first winding with respect to time thereby determining a value related to the maximum magnetic flux. In this embodiment the step of applying a third voltage across the first winding comprises calculating a value related to the integral of the voltage across the first winding with respect to time minus a value related to the integral of the product of the winding resistance and the electrical current through the first winding with respect to time thereby determining a value related to the magnetic flux of the core. In a preferred embodiment the voltage across the first winding during the application of the second voltage is measured directly using a volt meter. In an alternative embodiment the voltage across the first winding is determined from the second voltage more preferably it is the second voltage. Preferably the value related to an integral either calculated precisely or including various mathematical estimations simplifications approximations or combinations thereof. Preferably all calculations are performed by a processor for example a CPU Central Processing Unit microcontroller ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or combination thereof.

In a preferred embodiment the step of determining a value related to the maximum magnetic flux within the core comprises multiplying the determined saturation current by approximately 0.6 more preferably 0.632 determining a two tau saturation current. In this embodiment during the step of applying a second voltage across the first winding the amount of time for the second electrical current to reach the approximate magnitude of the two tau saturation current is timed thereby determining the saturation time. The half saturation time is determined by dividing the timed two tau saturation time by two. In this embodiment the third voltage is applied across the first winding for the determined half saturation time. Preferably all calculations are performed by processor for example a CPU Central Processing Unit microcontroller ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or combination thereof.

While the magnetic flux density in a core is not directly measurable for practical purposes the magnetic flux linkage can be useful for determining the magnetic state of the core. By Faraday s law the magnetic flux linkage is 1

Although the flux linkage may be obtained in real time by integrating the voltage drop due to inductance it is convenient to simplify the relationship thereby minimizing the load on the processing system. Since only the state of the core is of interest we can assume that any flux linkage generated beyond the saturation of the core is not relevant. When a DC voltage is applied and winding resistance loss is negligible this allows the simplification of 1 to 2

An iterative process revealed that by measuring the time it takes for the current to reach 63 of the steady state current when measured from reverse saturation after the applied voltage has been reversed gives the appropriate t for the given assumptions.

These results were consistent with analysis of 1 where the voltage across the inductance is approximated as an exponentially decaying function with respect to time 0 3 

Where is measured as time needed for the current to reach 63.2 of its steady state saturated magnitude. A prototype device was constructed in order to demonstrate that the demagnetization could be performed automatically. This prototype test set also automatically measures the winding resistance. An embedded computer controls the process for saturating the core by applying a DC voltage and subsequently performs the demagnetization by first characterizing the total change in magnetic flux when driven from magnetic saturation to the reverse magnetic saturation this is represented by time needed to reach 63.2 of steady state current magnitude approximately two time constants . After that it applies a fixed voltage from a saturated state for half of that time leaving the core in a magnetically neutral demagnetized state.

The accuracy of demagnetization was evaluated by three methods First by measuring the time needed to reach 90 of steady state current after the demagnetization process with both positive and negative magnetization directions. Second by recording the voltage across and current through the transformer the flux linkage V s can be calculated taking in to account the losses due to wire resistance. Third by solving 3 for one half cycle of a transformer s 60 Hz rated voltage the operating flux linkage of the transformer can be obtained. For most transformers designed to operate within some small percentage of saturation the flux linkage of the demagnetization cycle can be estimated with reasonable accuracy.

The first method was performed multiple times on a variety of single phase transformers with voltage classes ranging between 34.4 kV to 345 kV. This method resulted in a standard deviation of 1 3 from the overall average and an average flux linkage V s of V s of 129 and a demagnetization error of 4.3 .

In the second method voltage across the inductance was integrated from saturation to reverse saturation then compared with the integration from saturation to the expected demagnetized point. Once calculated from the characterization step as an expected flux linkage V s of 135 the flux linkage of the demagnetization step of the procedure differed by 1 from the expected flux linkage determined from characterization step.

The third method also produced results as were expected. For example for the 34.4 kV transformer one half cycle of rated voltage at 60 Hz produces a flux linkage V s of 129 and a demagnetization error of 4.3 . The flux linkage characterization step for the transformer is shown in . When integrated from 0 to the 30 second mark and divided by two the flux linkage was found to be 135 V s. Finally when the prototype test set performed the demagnetization for the time determined from the characterization step the measured flux linkage over that interval was 137 V s.

The controller is any means of controlling the voltage supply based on data from the volt meter and the current meter . Preferably the controller is a processor for example CPU Central Processing Unit microcontroller or ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit . The controller is configured to perform at least the demagnetization method described herein preferably by storing a series of machine instructions of at least the demagnetization method herein in memory e.g. ROM Flash Memory Magnetic Media etc. . The controller preferably comprises an ALU Arithmetic Logic Unit capable of division and multiplying. The controller preferably also comprises a timer preferably a clock built into the controller or in the alternative an external timer for example the 555 Timer triggering a counter within the controller . In one embodiment the controller comprises an HC11 microcontroller manufactured by Motorola. In a preferred embodiment the controller is a single board computer for example the QSCREEN CONTROLLER sold by MOSAIC INDUSTRIES.

The voltage supply is any means of supplying a voltage across its output and thereby the first winding . Preferably the voltage supply supplies a DC voltage preferably less than 20 volts for safety more preferably approximately 12 volts DC. Preferably the voltage supply is a battery electricity from the grid electricity from the grid converted to DC using a DC power converter rectified electricity from the grid electricity generated from various means e.g. solar wind geothermal etc. etc. Preferably the voltage supply is capable of reversing the polarity of the voltage using one or more electrical switches. In one embodiment a series of relays are used to control the polarity of the voltage supplied by the voltage supply . In another embodiment a series of transistors e.g. MOSFET BJT etc. are used to control the polarity of the voltage supplied by the voltage supply . The voltage produced by the voltage supply is at least large enough to produce an electromagnetic field within the core with enough intensity as to eventually affect the saturation of the core material with magnetic flux. The voltage supply magnitude needed to eventually affect the saturation of the core with magnetic flux is preferably optimized for the various factors for example but not limited to core material distance from the first winding first winding material first winding insulation core insulation other electromagnetic fields at the core etc.

The volt meter is any means of determining the voltage across the first winding . In one embodiment the volt meter is an ADC analog to digital converter connected to or more preferably built into the controller . Preferably the voltage across the first winding is stepped down preferably using a voltage divider operation amplifier etc. prior to measurement by an ADC. Preferably the volt meter is included to allow for the resistivity determination using Ohm s Law for health determination preferably during demagnetization. In the alternative the volt meter may be omitted as shown in . Preferably the volt meter comprises a 25 bit ADC preferably at 60 samples per second

The current meter is any means of determining the electrical current running through the first winding preferably using one or more shunt resistors hall effect current sensor transducers and magnetoresistive field sensors. Preferably the voltage is stepped down preferably using a voltage divider operation amplifier etc. In one embodiment one or more shunt resistors are used whereby the current meter is an ADC Analog to digital converter connected to or more preferably built into the controller . The electrical current is calculated using Ohm s law using the measured voltage and the known resistance of the electrical components. In an alternate embodiment a current clamp is used for example a coil of wire wrapped around one of the wires whereby the current induced in the coil of wire is detected for example using a resistive load and an ADC Analog to digital converter .

The first winding electromagnetically connected to a core is any electrical conductor in electromagnetic communications with a core. Preferably the first winding and core is a metal core surrounded by a first winding an electrical conductor. In one embodiment the first winding and core is a power transformer comprising a core a first winding and a second winding whereby the first winding and the second winding are wrapped around different sections of the core. The first winding and core are preferably as described in and

The core is any material capable of magnetization and subsequent demagnetization by application of an electromagnetic field. Preferably the core is a metal core of a transformer. More preferably the core is the metal core of a power transformer surrounded by the first winding and used for power distribution.

The first winding is any electrical conductor whereby a magnetic field is generated upon application of the first voltage across the first winding. Preferably the first winding is an electrical conductor wrapped around the core more preferably an inductor or more preferably a transformer. Preferably the first winding is the electrical conductor winding of a power transformer used for power distribution.

The various steps are preferably performed by a device similar to or . Preferably the controller or any other device capable of performing the method in with the necessary hardware is used to perform the steps listed in . Preferably the first electrical current is measured using a current meter or any other device capable of measuring electrical current. Preferably the controller or any other device capable of performing mathematical operations is used to determine whether the first current is no longer substantially increasing . Preferably the controller or any other device capable of storing data is used to store the last measured first current determining a saturation current I 

Once the saturation current I is determined in step the first voltage is removed and the second voltage is applied to the first winding . The second voltage has the reversed polarity of the first voltage. The second electrical current is measured while the second voltage continues to be applied . The measured second current is then used preferably by a processor to determine a value related to the maximum magnetic flux . Once the second current is approximately equal to the saturation current then the process continues to step . The continued application of the second voltage after a value related to the maximum magnetic flux is determined is required to ensure that the core is placed in a known saturated state.

The various steps are preferably performed by a device similar to or . Preferably the second electrical current is measured using a current meter or any other device capable of measuring electrical current. Preferably the controller or any other device capable of performing mathematical operations is used to determine the maximum magnetic flux . Preferably the controller or any other device capable of performing mathematical operations is used to determine whether the second current is approximately equal to the saturation current .

Once the second current is approximately equal to the saturation current the second voltage is removed and a third voltage is applied . The third voltage has the reversed polarity of the second voltage. The value related to magnetic flux within the core is measured . In step the process continues with the application of the third voltage until the measured value related to magnetic flux within the core reaches the determined value related to the maximum value related to the magnetic flux . In step once the measured value related to magnetic flux within the core reaches the determined value related to the maximum value related to the magnetic flux the third voltage is removed. After the third voltage is removed the core is left in a demagnetized state thereby completing demagnetization .

The various steps are preferably performed by a device similar to or . Preferably the controller or any other device capable of performing mathematical operations is used to determine measured value related to magnetic flux within the core . Preferably the controller or any other device capable of performing mathematical operations is used to determine measured value related to magnetic flux within the core reaches the determined value related to the maximum value related to the magnetic flux of step .

A first voltage is applied across the first winding generating a first electrical current through the first winding. The first voltage is applied preferably using the voltage supply in described above across a first winding generating a first electrical current through the first winding until the generated first electrical current is not substantially increasing thereby determining a saturation current. Due to the inductance of the first winding the first electrical current in response to the applied first voltage will not have an instantaneous response but rather a diminishing increase into a stable first electrical current. Preferably once the first electrical current is no longer increasing approximately along a linear curve it is considered as no longer substantially increasing. In one embodiment if the first electrical current is no longer increasing by at least 10 per second it is considered as no longer substantially increasing. The determined saturation current is then the first electrical current that substantially saturates the core.

The value related to maximum magnetic flux may be determined using a variety of techniques. Preferably the flux linkage Volt Seconds of the first winding is used to estimate the value related to magnetic flux within the core as discussed above. In a preferred embodiment of using the flux linkage of the first winding to estimate the value related to magnetic flux within the core the step of determining a value related to the maximum value related to magnetic flux within the core comprises measuring the electrical current through the first winding during the application of the second voltage and calculating a value related to the integral of the voltage across the first winding with respect to time minus a value related to the integral of the product of the winding resistance and the electrical current through the first winding with respect to time thereby determining a value related to the maximum value related to magnetic flux. In a preferred embodiment the voltage across the first winding during the application of the second voltage is measured directly using a volt meter. In an alternative embodiment the voltage across the first winding is determined from the second voltage more preferably is the second voltage. Preferably the value related to an integral either precisely calculated precisely or including various mathematical estimations simplifications approximations or combinations thereof. Preferably all calculations are performed by a processor for example a CPU Central Processing Unit microcontroller ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or combination thereof.

In a preferred embodiment shown in the step of determining a value related to the maximum value related to magnetic flux within the core comprises multiplying the determined saturation current by approximately 0.6 more preferably 0.632 determining a two tau saturation current for example as shown in . In this embodiment during the step of applying a second voltage across the first winding the amount of time for the second electrical current to reach the approximate magnitude of the two tau saturation current is timed thereby determining the saturation time. The half saturation time is determined by dividing the timed two tau saturation time by two. Preferably all calculations are performed by a processor for example CPU Central Processing Unit microcontroller ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or combination thereof.

After the step of applying a first voltage across the first winding and determining the saturation current the first voltage is removed and a second voltage is applied across the first winding generating a second electrical current through the first winding. The second electrical current is applied until the generated second electrical current is approximately equal to the saturation current . The second voltage has the same magnitude but reversed polarity of the first voltage for example providing 10V instead of 10V or vice versa.

The second voltage is applied preferably using the voltage supply in described above across a first winding generating a second electrical current through the first winding until the generated second electrical current is substantially equal to the saturation current. Preferably once the second electrical current is within 10 more preferably 5 of the magnitude of the saturation current it is considered as approximately equal. The second electrical current is in the opposite direction of the first electrical current. In one embodiment once the second electrical current is within 1 of the magnitude of the saturation current it is considered approximately equal. Application of the second voltage across the first winding allows for the determination of the value related to maximum magnetic flux and also puts the transformer in a known state saturated by the electromagnetic field generated by the first winding from the second electrical current.

After the step of applying a second voltage across the first winding the second voltage is removed and a third voltage is applied across the first winding generating a third electrical current through the first winding. In step the third electrical current is applied until measured value related to magnetic flux within the core reaches half the determined maximum value related to magnetic flux . The third voltage has the reversed polarity of the second voltage. Preferably the third voltage has the same magnitude but reversed polarity of the second voltage for example providing 10V instead of 10V or vice versa. In an alternate embodiment a variable voltage is applied having a voltage polarity opposite of the first voltage for example a square wave not crossing zero sinusoidal wave etc. Preferably the third voltage is applied using the voltage supply in as described above. After the core saturation time the third voltage is removed from the first winding thereby leaving the core in a demagnetized state.

In step the process continues with the application of the third voltage until the measured value related to magnetic flux within the core reaches the maximum value related to magnetic flux determined in step . In step once the measured value related to magnetic flux within the core reaches the determined maximum value related to magnetic flux the third voltage is removed leaving the core demagnetized .

The value related to magnetic flux within the core may be measured using a variety of techniques. Preferably the technique used to measure the value related to magnetic flux within the core is the same as the technique used to determine the maximum value related to magnetic flux . In one embodiment the step of applying a third voltage across the first winding comprises calculating a value related to the integral of the voltage across the first winding with respect to time minus a value related to the integral of the product of the winding resistance and the electrical current through the first winding with respect to time thereby determining a value related to the magnetic flux of the core. In a preferred embodiment the voltage across the first winding during the application of the third voltage is measured directly using a volt meter. In an alternative embodiment the voltage across the first winding is determined from the third voltage more preferably is the third voltage. Preferably the value related to an integral either precisely calculated precisely or including various mathematical estimations simplifications approximations or combinations thereof. Preferably all calculations are performed by a processor for example CPU Central Processing Unit microcontroller ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or combination thereof.

In a preferred embodiment shown in the step of determining a value related to the maximum value related to magnetic flux within the core comprises multiplying the determined saturation current by approximately 0.6 more preferably 0.632 determining a two tau saturation current for example as shown in . In this embodiment the third voltage is applied across the first winding for the determined half saturation time. Preferably all calculations are performed by a processor for example CPU Central Processing Unit microcontroller ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or combination thereof.

The determined saturation current is then multiplied by approximately 0.6 more preferably 0.632 determining a two tau saturation current I . In an alternative embodiment the storage of the saturation current the determination of two tau saturation current or a combination thereof may be done in parallel with any of the steps until it is used in step .

Next the first voltage is removed and a timer is started and a second voltage is applied across the first winding generating a second electrical current through the first winding . The second voltage has the same magnitude but reversed polarity of the first voltage. The second electrical current is measured while the second voltage continues to be applied . In step if the second current is not approximately equal to the two tau saturation current determined in step then the second current is again measured . Once the second is current is approximately equal to or greater than the two tau saturation current determined in step then the value of the timer divided by two is stored thereby determining the core saturation time t . The saturation time t is determined by the amount of time for the second current to reach the magnitude of the two tau saturation current. A core saturation time is determined by dividing the two tau saturation time by two. In an alternate embodiment the actual calculation of the core saturation time t may be done at any time before it is used in step . Therefore steps and along with the timing introduced in step performs for the function of determining maximum value related to magnetic flux in .

Next the second current is measured again. If the second current is not approximately equal to the saturation current then the second current is measured while the second voltage continues to be applied . If the second current is approximately equal to the saturation current then the process continues to step . The continued application of the second voltage is required to ensure that the core is in placed in a known saturated state.

Next the second voltage is removed and a timer preferably the same time in step reset is started and a third voltage is applied across the first winding . The third voltage creates a third electrical current through the first winding. The third voltage has the same magnitude and polarity as the first voltage reversed polarity of the second voltage. If the timer started in step has not reached the core saturation time t the third voltage continues to be applied . If the timer started in step has reached the core saturation time the third voltage is removed resulting in a completed demagnetization . Therefore steps along with the timing introduced in step performs for the function of determining when the measured value related to magnetic flux within the core reaches the determined maximum value related to magnetic flux in .

Due to timing the controller may miss the point at which the first measured current second measured current the timer or a combination thereof reach a particular value. Preferably the controller is designed to account for this and accept currents or time not only equal to but afterwards to compensate for the given timing frequency.

Once the saturation current is determined the two tau saturation current is determined by multiplying the saturation current by 0.6 preferably 0.63 more preferably 0.632. Preferably this is done using a processor for example microcontroller CPU Central Processing Unit or ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit more preferably the controller in as described above.

During the step of applying a second voltage across the first winding the amount of time for the second current to reach the magnitude of the two tau saturation current is timed thereby determining a saturation time. Preferably once the second electrical current is within 10 more preferably 5 of the two tau saturation current it is considered approximate to the two tau saturation current. In one embodiment once the second electrical current is within 1 of the two tau saturation current it is considered approximate to the two tau saturation current.

The various steps are preferably performed by a device similar to or . Preferably the controller or any other device capable of performing mathematical operations is used to perform the various mathematical calculations described above.

Once the two tau saturation time is determined the core saturation time is determined by dividing the two tau saturation time by two 2 . Preferably this is done using a processor for example microcontroller CPU Central Processing Unit or ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit more preferably using the controller in as described above.

Preferably one or more health characteristics are determined for the core using various techniques. Preferably at least one health characteristic determined for the core is resistance testing whereby a DC current is applied across a winding of the core. In a preferred embodiment after the saturation current is determined step in the resistance across the winding is determined using Ohm s law by dividing the first voltage by the first electrical current. In an alternate embodiment the resistance across the winding is determined using Ohm s law by dividing the measured voltage across the first winding preferably using a volt meter as shown in by the first electrical current. Once the electrical current has stabilized the resistance across the first winding is calculated using Ohm s law given the applied voltage and determined saturation current. The resistance across the first winding is then correlated with a known dataset of corresponding to the core to determine one or more health characteristics of the core. IEEE 62 1995 hereby fully incorporated by reference describes in more details a resistance testing to determine health characteristics of a core is a preferred embodiment.

The various steps are preferably performed by a device similar to or . Preferably the controller or any other device capable of performing mathematical operations is used to perform the various mathematical calculations described above.

Demagnetizing single phase transformers with this method is very efficient and straightforward. The same method may be used on three phase transformers by simply performing two demagnetization steps with different phases shorted each time.

In one embodiment the method can be simplified by estimating the standard operating flux linkage from the voltage class of the transformer at 60 Hz instead of determining the two tau saturation time as described above. From that result for a small loss of accuracy in demagnetization tau can be derived from the voltage rating of the transformer. This would further reduce the time necessary to demagnetize a transformer since the flux linkage characterization cycle would be unnecessary. In another embodiment the two tau saturation time is determined for a transformer type and used for multiple subsequent tests of transformers of the same type.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

