---

title: Categorizing objects, such as documents and/or clusters, with respect to a taxonomy and data structures derived from such categorization
abstract: A Website may be automatically categorized by (a) accepting Website information, (b) determining a set of scored clusters (e.g., semantic, term co-occurrence, etc.) for the Website using the Website information, and (c) determining at least one category (e.g., a vertical category) of a predefined taxonomy using at least some of the set of clusters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08918395&OS=08918395&RS=08918395
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08918395
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120620
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 112 716 referred to as the 716 application and incorporated herein by reference filed on Apr. 22 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 229 957 titled CATEGORIZING OBJECTS SUCH AS DOCUMENTS AND OR CLUSTERS WITH RESPECT TO A TAXONOMY AND DATA STRUCTURES DERIVED FROM SUCH CATEGORIZATION and listing David GEHRKING Ching LAW and Andrew MAXWELL as the inventors.

The present invention concerns organizing information. In particular the present invention concerns categorizing terms phrases documents and or term co occurrence clusters with respect to a taxonomy and using such categorized documents and or clusters.

A taxonomy is a structured usually hierarchical set of categories or classes or the principles underlying the categorization or classification . Taxonomies are useful because they can be used to express relationships between various things referred to simply as objects . For example taxonomies can be used to determine whether different objects belong together or to determine how closely different objects are related.

Unfortunately assigning objects to the appropriate category or categories of a taxonomy can be difficult. This is particularly true if different types of objects are to be assigned to the taxonomy. Also this is particularly true if attributes of the objects used for categorization can change over time or if many objects are being added and or removed from a universe of objects to be categorized. For example Websites are continuously being added and removed from the World Wide Web. Further the content of Websites often changes. Thus categorizing Websites can be challenging.

In view of the foregoing it would be useful to provide automated means for assigning objects e.g. Websites and possibly different types of objects to appropriate categories of a taxonomy.

At least some embodiments consistent with the present invention may automatically categorize a Website. Such embodiments may do so by a accepting Website information b determining a set of scored clusters e.g. semantic term co occurrence etc. for the Website using the Website information and c determining at least one category e.g. a vertical category of a predefined taxonomy using at least some of the set of clusters.

At least some embodiments consistent with the present invention may associate a semantic cluster e.g. a term co occurrence cluster with one or more categories e.g. vertical categories of a predefined taxonomy. Such embodiments may do so by a accepting a semantic cluster b identifying a set of a one or more scored concepts using the accepted cluster c identifying a set of one or more categories using at least some of the one or more scored concepts and d associating at least some of the one or more categories with the semantic cluster.

At least some embodiments consistent with the present invention may associate a property e.g. a Website with one or more categories e.g. vertical categories of a predefined taxonomy. Such embodiments may do so by a accepting information about the property b identifying a set of a one or more scored semantic clusters e.g. term co occurrence clusters using the accepted property information c identifying a set of one or more categories e.g. vertical categories using at least some of the one or more scored semantic clusters and d associating at least some of the one or more categories with the property.

The present invention may involve novel methods apparatus message formats for categorizing objects such as words phrases documents and or clusters for example with respect to a taxonomy and data structures derived from such categorization. The following description is presented to enable one skilled in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of particular applications and their requirements. Thus the following description of embodiments consistent with the present invention provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed. Various modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles set forth below may be applied to other embodiments and applications. For example although a series of acts may be described with reference to a flow diagram the order of acts may differ in other implementations when the performance of one act is not dependent on the completion of another act. Further non dependent acts may be performed in parallel. No element act or instruction used in the description should be construed as critical or essential to the present invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown and the inventors regard their invention as any patentable subject matter described.

In the following definitions that may be used in the specification are provided in 4.1. Then exemplary embodiments consistent with the present invention are described in 4.2. An example illustrating operations in an exemplary embodiment consistent with the present invention is provided in 4.3. Finally some conclusions regarding the present invention are set forth in 4.4.

A property is something on which ads can be presented. A property may include online content e.g. a Website an MP3 audio program online games etc. offline content e.g. a newspaper a magazine a theatrical production a concert a sports event etc. and or offline objects e.g. a billboard a stadium score board and outfield wall the side of truck trailer etc. . Properties with content e.g. magazines newspapers Websites email messages etc. may be referred to as media properties. Although properties may themselves be offline pertinent information about a property e.g. attribute s topic s concept s category ies keyword s relevancy information type s of ads supported etc. may be available online. For example an outdoor jazz music festival may have entered the topics music and jazz the location of the concerts the time of the concerts artists scheduled to appear at the festival and types of available ad spots e.g. spots in a printed program spots on a stage spots on seat backs audio announcements of sponsors etc. .

A document is to be broadly interpreted to include any machine readable and machine storable work product. A document may be a file a combination of files one or more files with embedded links to other files etc. The files may be of any type such as text HTML XML audio image video etc. Parts of a document to be rendered to an end user can be thought of as content of the document. A document may include structured data containing both content words pictures etc. and some indication of the meaning of that content for example e mail fields and associated data HTML tags and associated data etc. . Ad spots in the document may be defined by embedded information or instructions. In the context of the Internet a common document is a Web page. Web pages often include content and may include embedded information such as meta information hyperlinks etc. and or embedded instructions such as JavaScript etc. . In many cases a document has a unique addressable storage location and can therefore be uniquely identified by this addressable location. A universal resource locator URL is a unique address used to access information on the Internet. Another example of a document is a Website including a number of related e.g. linked Web pages. Yet another example of a document is an advertisement.

A Web document includes any document published on the Web. Examples of Web documents include for example a Website or a Web page.

 Document information may include any information included in the document information derivable from information included in the document referred to as document derived information and or information related to the document referred to as document related information as well as extensions of such information e.g. information derived from related information . An example of document derived information is a classification based on textual content of a document. Examples of document related information include document information from other documents with links to the instant document as well as document information from other documents to which the instant document links.

 Verticals are groups of related products services industries content formats audience demographics and or topics that are likely to be found in or for Website content.

A cluster is a group of elements that tend to occur closely together. For example a cluster may be a set of terms that tend to co occur often e.g. on Web pages in search queries in product catalogs in articles online or offline in speech in discussion or e mail threads etc. .

A concept is a bearer of meaning as opposed to an agent of meaning such as a particular word in a particular language . Thus for example a single concept can be expressed by any number of languages or in alternative ways in a given language. For example the words STOP HALT ANSCHLAG ARRESTO and PARADA all belong to the same concept. Concepts are abstract in that they omit the differences of the things in their extension treating them as if they were identical. Concepts are universal in that they apply equally to everything in their extension.

A taxonomy is a structured usually hierarchical but may be flat set of categories or classes or the principles underlying the categorization or classification . A category may correspond to a node of the taxonomy.

A score can be any numerical value assigned to an object. Thus a score can include a number determined by a formula which may be referred to as a formulaic score . A score can include a ranking of an object in an ordered set of objects which may be referred to as an ordinal score .

Concept generation identification operations may accept clusters or and generate cluster concept information e.g. an index . Once such information has been generated the concept generation identification operations can be used to identify one or more concepts in response to input clusters or . Filtering data reduction operations may be used to generate a subset of better concepts .

Category generation identification operations may accept concepts or and generate concept category information e.g. an index . Once such information has been generated the category generation identification operations can be used to identify one or more categories in response to input concepts or . These categories may be nodes of a taxonomy. Category filtering reduction operations may be used to generate a subset of better categories .

There are many examples of terms in context . For example terms in context may be words and or phrases included in a search query and or of a search session including one or more search queries. As another example terms in context may be words and or phrases found in a document e.g. a Web page or a collection or group of documents e.g. a Website . As yet another example terms in context may be words and or phrases in the creative of an advertisement.

Referring back to term co occurrence based cluster generation identification operations co occurrence of terms in some context or contexts e.g. search queries search sessions Web pages Websites articles blogs discussion threads etc. may be used to generate groups or clusters of words. Once these clusters are defined a word to cluster index may be stored. Using such an index given a word or words one or more clusters which include the words can be identified. An example of operations used to generate and or identify such clusters is a probabilistic hierarchical inferential learner referred to as PHIL such as described in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 416 144 referred to as the 144 provisional and incorporated herein by reference titled Methods and Apparatus for Probabilistic Hierarchical Inferential Learner filed on Oct. 3 2002 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 676 571 referred to as the 571 application and incorporated herein by reference titled Methods and Apparatus for Characterizing Documents Based on Cluster Related Words filed on Sep. 30 2003 and listing Georges Harik and Noam Shazeer as inventors.

One exemplary embodiment of PHIL is a system of interrelated clusters of terms that tend to occur together in www.google.com search sessions. A term within such a cluster may be weighted by how statistically important it is to the cluster. Such clusters can have from a few terms to thousands of terms. One embodiment of the PHIL model contains hundreds of thousands of clusters and covers all languages in proportion to their search frequency. Clusters may be assigned attributes such as STOP e.g. containing mostly words such as the a an etc that convey little meaning PORN NEGATIVE containing words that often appear in negative depressing or sensitive articles such as bomb suicide etc. and LOCATION etc. to be used by applications e.g. online ad serving systems . In another embodiment of PHIL a model is maintained for each language which simplifies maintenance and updating.

A PHIL server can take a document e.g. a Webpage as an input and return clusters that match the content. It can also take an ad creative and or targeting keywords as input and return matching clusters. Thus it can be used to match ads to the content of Webpages.

Referring back to concept generation identification operations and the category generation identification operations these operations can accept one or more clusters and identify one or more categories e.g. nodes of a taxonomy. When used in concert with term co occurrence cluster identification operations these operations and can accept one or more terms and identify one or more categories of a taxonomy.

An example of operations and used to generate and or identify categories is a semantic recognition engine such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 453 315 incorporated herein by reference titled Meaning Based Information Organization and Retrieval and listing Adam Weissman and Gilad Isreal Elbaz as inventors and U.S. Pat. No. 6 816 857 incorporated herein by reference titled Meaning Based Advertising and Document Relevant Determination and listing Adam Weissman and Gilad Israel Elbaz as inventors 

An exemplary semantic recognition engine referred to as Circadia below can examine a document and categorize it into any taxonomy. Circadia includes a proprietary ontology of hundreds of thousands of interrelated concepts and corresponding terms. The concepts in the Circadia ontology are language independent. Terms which are language specific are related to these concepts. A Circadia server supports two major operations sensing and seeking. The sensing operation accepts as input a document or a string of text and returns as output a weighted set of concepts referred to as a gist for the input. Thus the sensing operation in Circadia is an example of concept identification operations . This gist can then be used as a seek request input. In response the best categories and their respective semantic scores in the specified taxonomy are returned. Thus the seeking operation in Circadia is an example of category identification operations and perhaps category filtering reduction operations . Naturally other taxonomies such as the Open Directory Project ODP taxonomy the Standard Industrial Classification SIC taxonomy etc. may be used.

As shown in at least one embodiment consistent with the present invention the information may be a table including a plurality of entries . Each of the entries may include a cluster identifier and an identifier for each of one or more categories of a taxonomy . Although not shown an inverted index mapping each category to one or more clusters may also be generated and stored.

As shown in at least one embodiment consistent with the present invention the information may be a table including a plurality of entries . Each of the entries may include a document identifier and an identifier for each of one or more categories of a taxonomy . Although not shown an inverted index mapping each category to one or more documents may also be generated and stored.

As shown as was the case with the exemplary embodiment of in at least one embodiment consistent with the present invention the information may be a table including a plurality of entries . Each of the entries may include a document identifier and an identifier for each of one or more categories of a taxonomy . Although not shown an inverted index mapping each category to one or more documents may also be generated and stored.

Referring back to block the cluster may be a PHIL cluster or a set of terms tending to co occur in search queries or search sessions for example. The cluster may be a set of terms that tend to co occur in documents.

Referring back to block concepts may be filtered and or reduced by for example scoring them applying the concept scores to one or more thresholds absolute and or relative taking only the top N scoring concepts or any combination of the foregoing. Similarly referring back to block categories may be filtered and or reduced by for example scoring them applying the category scores to one or more thresholds absolute and or relative taking only the top M scoring concepts or any combination of the foregoing.

As indicated by the bracket acts may be combined into a single act of identifying one or more categories using the accepted cluster. However Circadia is designed to categorize using a sense operation followed by a seek operation. One advantage of first identifying concepts from clusters and then identifying categories from the concepts rather than just going directly from clusters to categories is that if intermediate concepts gists are stored they can be used directly to classify into any of a number of the available taxonomies without needing to repeat the sense operation. That is once a concept has been determined it is easy to get to terms categories other concepts etc.

Referring back to block a cluster may be associated with one or more categories by generating and storing an index which maps a cluster identifier to one or more categories identifiers . Alternatively or in addition an inverted index which maps a category identifier to one or more clusters identifiers may be generated and stored.

Referring back to block a cluster may be refined to include only the top T e.g. 50 terms e.g. based on inter cluster scoring and or intra cluster scoring . Here intra cluster scoring may increase as the number of times the term appears in the cluster increases and may decrease as the number of times the term appears in a document e.g. Webpages search queries search sessions collection increases. Thus the intra cluster score may be defined as for example count in cluster count in search query collection. In addition the number T of top terms for each cluster may be determined based on an intra cluster firing rather than the same fixed number of terms for each cluster. Cluster scorings used in the 571 application may also be used.

Referring back to blocks of in at least one exemplary embodiment consistent with the present invention concepts can be determined from clusters using a Circadia server as follows.

Referring back to block of the first step in categorization using Circadia is to do a sense operation which returns a gist. The gist is the internal weighted set of concept matches from the Circadia ontology. Thus a gist e.g. based on the 50 terms for each cluster is obtained.

Referring back to blocks and of the second step involves doing a seek operation to request the top N e.g. N 2 categories and corresponding semantic scores from a specified taxonomy given a gist.

In at least one exemplary embodiment consistent with the present invention the top two categories and their corresponding semantic scores are requested from the seek operation. In such an exemplary embodiment s these top two categories are referred to as the primary category for the top scoring one and secondary category for each cluster. If Circadia doesn t determine any category for a cluster the cluster receives primary and secondary categories of NONE . If Circadia only determines a primary category but not a secondary category the secondary category is set to NONE .

Referring back to block at least one embodiment consistent with the present invention filters out categories with scores that are less than a threshold. The threshold may be a predetermined threshold. Further the threshold may be set lower if there are more terms in the original cluster which in effect considers the number of terms in each cluster as a kind of measurement of statistical significance for the Circadia call. For example if a cluster has more than M e.g. 50 terms then one can be more confident that using just the top 50 of them would provide a good representative sample which allows the threshold to be relaxed. If however a cluster has fewer than M terms it may be advisable to raise the threshold because the sample of terms is smaller and may include less meaningful terms of the cluster.

Referring back to block the document may be a Webpage content extracted from a Webpage a portion of a Webpage e.g. anchor text of a reference or link a Website a portion of a Website creative text of an ad etc.

Referring back to block clusters may be filtered and or reduced by for example scoring them applying the cluster scores to one or more thresholds absolute and or relative taking only the top N scoring clusters or any combination of the foregoing. Similarly referring back to block concepts may be filtered and or reduced by for example scoring them applying the concept scores to one or more thresholds absolute and or relative taking only the top N scoring concepts or any combination of the foregoing. Similarly referring back to block categories may be filtered and or reduced by for example scoring them applying the category scores to one or more thresholds absolute and or relative taking only the top M scoring concepts or any combination of the foregoing.

As indicated by the bracket though it may be useful to determine intermediate concepts e.g. gists for the reasons introduced above acts may be combined into a single act of identifying one or more categories using the identified cluster s .

Referring back to block a document may be associated with one or more categories by generating and storing an index which maps a document identifier to one or more categories identifiers . Alternatively or in addition an inverted index which maps a category identifier to one or more documents identifiers may be generated and stored.

Referring back to block the document may be a Webpage content extracted from a Webpage a portion of a Webpage e.g. anchor text of a reference or link a Website a portion of a Website creative text of an ad etc.

Referring back to block clusters may be filtered and or reduced by for example scoring them applying the cluster scores to one or more thresholds absolute and or relative taking only the top N scoring clusters or any combination of the foregoing. Similarly referring back to block categories may be filtered and or reduced by for example scoring them applying the category scores to one or more thresholds absolute and or relative taking only the top M scoring concepts or any combination of the foregoing.

Referring back to block the cluster to category association information may be an index that maps each of a number of clusters to one or more categories. Recall e.g. of of . 

Referring back to block a document may be associated with one or more categories by generating and storing an index which maps a document identifier to one or more categories identifiers . Alternatively or in addition an inverted index which maps a category identifier to one or more documents identifiers may be generated and stored.

The one or more processors may execute machine executable instructions e.g. C or C running on the Solaris operating system available from Sun Microsystems Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. the Linux operating system widely available from a number of vendors such as Red Hat Inc. of Durham N.C. Java assembly Perl etc. to effect one or more aspects of the present invention. At least a portion of the machine executable instructions may be stored temporarily or more permanently on the one or more storage devices and or may be received from an external source via one or more input interface units .

In one embodiment the machine may be one or more conventional personal computers mobile telephones PDAs etc. In the case of a conventional personal computer the processing units may be one or more microprocessors. The bus may include a system bus. The storage devices may include system memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . The storage devices may also include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a e.g. removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magneto optical disk such as a compact disk or other magneto optical media etc.

A user may enter commands and information into the personal computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device e.g. a mouse for example. Other input devices such as a microphone a joystick a game pad a satellite dish a scanner or the like may also or alternatively be included. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit s through an appropriate interface coupled to the system bus . The output devices may include a monitor or other type of display device which may also be connected to the system bus via an appropriate interface. In addition to or instead of the monitor the personal computer may include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers for example.

Naturally many of the about described input and output means might not be necessary in the context of at least some aspects of embodiments consistent with the present invention.

The various operations described above may be performed by one or more machines and the various information described above may be stored on one or more machines . Such machines may be connected with one or more networks such as the Internet for example.

Although many of the embodiments are described in the context of online properties such as documents and in particular Websites and Webpages at least some embodiments consistent with the present invention can support offline properties even including non media properties.

In at least one embodiment consistent with the present invention one or more clusters may be manually mapped to one or more categories of a taxonomy effectively overriding or supplementing an automatic category determination for such cluster s . For example in such an embodiment clusters with the PORN attribute may be assigned to an Adult Porn category even if the automatically determined category is different. Similarly clusters with the NEGATIVE attribute may be assigned to a News Current Events News Subjects Sensitive category even if the automatically determined category is different. Similarly clusters with the LOCATION attribute may be assigned to a Local Services City Regional Guides LOC Locations category even if the automatically determined category is different. Such clusters may be manually generated manually revised and or manually reviewed.

Referring back to term cluster information index of a weighted set of clusters may be generated for Websites e.g. Websites participating in a content relevant ad serving network such as AdSense from Google of Mountain View Calif. as follows.

A log record may be generated for each pageview for a Webpage displaying e.g. AdSense ads. The set of scored PHIL clusters for the Webpage may be recorded with that log record. For a given Webpage there may be a plurality e.g. between one and dozens of clusters and each cluster has an associated activation score. See e.g. the 571 application which describes activation . The activation score is a measurement of how conceptually significant the given cluster is to the document being analyzed. Lower valued activation scores indicate a lower conceptual significance and higher valued activation scores indicate a higher conceptual significance.

Clusters that do not have an activation score of at least a predetermined value e.g. 1.0 for the Webpage as discussed above can be ignored. Recall e.g. operations of . The predetermined value may be set to a minimum threshold used by the ad serving system in serving ads. Certain special case clusters e.g. those marked as STOP may also be ignored.

Of the remaining clusters referred to as qualifying clusters the sum of activation scores of these clusters may be determined. Each qualifying cluster for the Webpage gets a score. The cluster score may be defined as the product of a the qualifying cluster s activation score on the Webpage and b the number of pageviews that the Webpage received.

The following example illustrates how qualified clusters may be scored as just described above. Suppose that a given cluster cis activated on two Webpages within a Website. Assume that the cluster has an activation score of 10.0 on Webpage pand an activation score of 20.0 on Webpage p. During the course of a week Webpage preceives 1000 pageviews and Webpage preceives 1500 pageviews. The sum of the cluster score and pageview products for a Website for the week is 100 000. The cluster would then receive the following overall score for the website SCORE 10.0 activation pageview 1000 pageviews 20.0 activation pageview 1500 pageviews 100 000 activation 10 000 30 000 100 000 0.4 This effectively weights the total cluster scores for a Website by both pageviews and activation scores on individual Webpages of the Website. The set of cluster scores for a Website will sum to 1. One disadvantage of this approach is that higher traffic for a given Webpage does not necessarily mean that that Webpage is more representative from a categorization standpoint than a lower traffic Webpage. Thus it may be desirable to temper the pageviews parameter and or give a higher weight to the cluster Webpage activation score. Naturally activation scores may be weighted as a function of one or more factors which are reasonable in the context in which an embodiment consistent with the present invention is being used.

After a set of scored clusters for a Website is obtained the number of clusters can be reduced by selecting only the top S e.g. 25 highest scoring clusters all clusters for Websites that have fewer than S clusters . This set may be further reduced by keeping only the highest scoring clusters that make up the top Y e.g. 70 of the identified set in terms of score.

Referring back to operations of a reduced set of categories e.g. primary and secondary categories may be determined for each Website. The categories serving as an input to this operation may be a pared down set of scored categorizes associated with PHIL clusters referred to as cluster categories in the following for a Website already described above . Typically in one exemplary embodiment consistent with the present invention there will be a final set of about ten 10 cluster categories per Website. There is usually an overlap of cluster categories but it is possible for each cluster to have completely different categories.

In one embodiment consistent with the present invention the categories are part of a hierarchical taxonomy that includes up to Z e.g. 5 levels per branch. In such an embodiment besides deciding among different branches of the taxonomy the best level along a branch is also determined. For example it might be clear that the category should be somewhere in the Automotive branch but the question is which of Automotive Automotive Auto Parts Automotive Auto Parts Vehicle Tires or Automotive Vehicle Maintenance is the best one. The score for each input cluster contributes to the significance of its corresponding primary and secondary cluster categories to the overall categorization of the website.

Regardless of how many cluster categories are competing with each other for a Website categorization it is possible that none of them has enough conceptual significance e.g. as measured by the sum of scores for that category to merit being chosen. In other words the possible categories could be too diluted among the Website for any single one to win . In at least some embodiments consistent with the present invention this minimum conceptual significance may be enforced as a requirement by setting a threshold value e.g. stored as a floating point decimal . Assuming that the cluster scores for a given Website are normalized to sum to 1 in at least some embodiments a minimum conceptual significance threshold value of 0.24 or about 0.24 may generate good results. This means that if the best candidate for the primary or secondary category has a summed score of less than 0.24 a category of NONE will be assigned. Note that this threshold value can be adjusted based on the method used to score clusters on a Website.

In at least some embodiments it may be desirable to omit the secondary cluster categories to categorize Websites instead of using both the primary and secondary cluster categories to categorize Websites.

The following terminology is used in a description of the exemplary embodiment below. Given a hierarchical category path of the form level level . . . level m where m is the number of the deepest level in the path subsume level n refers to the subsumption of the path up to level n if n m. For example for a case where n m the subsume level of Automotive Auto Parts Vehicle Tires is just Automotive Auto Parts Vehicle Tires itself with no modification.

Note that the level n category will include its own intra category cluster score s as well as those of any subsumed deeper layer categories. The sum of these cluster scores is referred to as the self subsumed category cluster score or S S category cluster score for the level n category.

Regardless of how many categories are competing with each other for a document e.g. Website categorization it is possible that none of them has enough conceptual significance measured by the S S category cluster score to merit being chosen. In other words the clusters for a Website could be too diluted among the possible categories for any one category to be considered as the clearly the best category for the Website.

In at least some embodiments consistent with the present invention a minimum conceptual significance requirement may be imposed through the setting of a threshold value. Naturally it s easier to get categories that pass the threshold at higher subsume levels because they correspond to more general categories. In at least some embodiments consistent with the present invention the threshold value is chosen to maximize the overall quality across the various subsume levels but biased slightly toward the lower subsume levels since categorization subsume level scores will necessarily be lower at lower levels than at higher levels even though such categories might be the most appropriate.

In one exemplary embodiment consistent with the present invention a minimum conceptual significance threshold value of about 0.24 worked well assuming that the cluster scores for a given website sum to 1 as detailed above and a five layer category taxonomy with on the order of 500 nodes is used. It is believed that a minimum conceptual significance threshold value from 0.20 to 0.30 should work well. This means that if the best candidate for the primary or secondary category at a given subsume level has a summed score of less than the threshold a category of NONE will be assigned. Note that determining an appropriate threshold value may depend on the method that was used to score clusters on the document being categorized.

Having introduced some terminology an exemplary method for determining the best categorizes for a document in a manner consistent with the present invention is now described. Let t be the minimum conceptual significance threshold value. Let d be the deepest level in the taxonomy. The best primary category may be determined as follows. The best subsume level and its corresponding S S category cluster score are determined. This is repeated for all levels up to level d. The greatest deepest value of p whose best subsume level p category has S S category cluster score t is chosen. Alternatively S S category cluster scores could be analyzed from the deepest category level to the top most general category level. In this way the method could stop after processing a level in which an S S category score is t. Let v the best primary category be the best subsume level p category or NONE if no category satisfies the threshold.

The best secondary category may be defined as follows. If v the best primary category is NONE the best secondary category will be NONE . If v is not NONE the best subsume level and its corresponding subsume level score where subsume level is not equal to v are determined This is repeated constrained by the restriction of subsume level n not being equal to v for all levels up to level d. The greatest deepest value of q whose best subsume level q category has an S S category cluster score t is chosen. Let w the best secondary category be the best subsume level q category or NONE if no category satisfies the threshold.

As the foregoing examples illustrate various indexes can be used or used in combination perhaps in different sequences to obtain related objects of a second type from input objects of a first type. Objects of various types may be associated with categories e.g. nodes of a taxonomy.

An example illustrating the exemplary technique such as described in 4.2.3.5 above for selecting a primary and second category for a Website is now described with reference to . Consider a hypothetical Website about electronic gadgets. Assume that a threshold of 0.24 is used. Assume further that the clusters and corresponding primary categories and cluster category scores for the Website are 

As can be appreciated from the foregoing some embodiments consistent with the present invention may be used to associate different types of objects with categories nodes of a taxonomy. Once these associations are made some embodiments consistent with the present invention may be used to find related objects perhaps of different types using the associations between objects and categories of a taxonomy. For example embodiments consistent with the present invention may be used to permit Websites to be categorized into a hierarchical taxonomy of standardized industry vertical categories. Such a hierarchical taxonomy has many potential uses. Further if different types of objects e.g. advertisements queries Webpages Websites etc. can be categorized relationships e.g. similarities between these different types of objects can be determined and used e.g. in determining advertisements relevant to a Webpage or Website for example or vice versa .

After categorizing clusters and Websites into this taxonomy other dimensions e.g. language country etc. may be added e.g. in the manner of online analytical processing OLAP databases and data warehousing star schemas . The category dimension may be defined by hierarchical levels but some of the other dimensions like language could be flat. After deriving these various dimensions metrics e.g. pageviews ad impressions ad clicks cost etc. may be aggregated into them.

