---

title: Federated query engine for federation of data queries across structure and unstructured data
abstract: The subject technology provides querying structured and unstructured data across disparate incompatible systems with a single language and connection point. Cost based optimizations are provided for executing the query. In some configurations, logical plans for executing a query are generated. For each of the logical plans, the subject technology generates a set of physical plans for executing the query on data systems, determines an execution cost for each physical plan from the physical plans, and selects a respective physical plan with a lowest determined execution cost among the determined execution cost for each physical plan. A physical plan is then selected for execution with a lowest execution cost among the selected respective physical plans of each of the logical plans. Data from an operation from the query may then be persisted and then used for generating a new set of logical and physical plans for executing a remaining set of operations from the query.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330141&OS=09330141&RS=09330141
owner: CIRRO, INC.
number: 09330141
owner_city: Aliso Viejo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 541 036 entitled FEDERATED QUERY ENGINE FOR FEDERATION OF DATA QUERIES ACROSS STRUCTURE AND UNSTRUCTURED DATA filed on Sep. 29 2011 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 661 737 entitled FEDERATED QUERY ENGINE FOR FEDERATION OF DATA QUERIES ACROSS STRUCTURED AND UNSTRUCTURED DATA filed on Jun. 19 2012 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Data systems contain a variety of data query and storage engines from a variety of manufacturers. Each engine has certain advantages and disadvantages for its use as well as different versions of data access languages such as SQL Structured Query Language . All these differences present a complex problem for users who want to extract value from the data regardless of where the elements of data may exist. For instance those users make multiple connections use multiple tools and possess a variety of skills to enable access to data as a whole.

The subject technology provides for receiving a query for data stored across a plurality of data systems. The subject technology provides for generating a plurality of logical plans for executing the query. The subject technology generates a plurality of logical plans for executing a query. For each of the plurality of logical plans the subject technology generates a first set of physical plans for executing the query on the plurality of data systems based on the respective logical plan determines an execution cost for each physical plan from the first set of physical plans and selects the physical plan with a lowest determined execution cost from the first set of physical plans. A physical plan is then selected with a lowest execution cost among the selected respective physical plans of each of the logical plans. A first operation from the query is then executed according to the selected physical plan among the selected respective physical plans of each of the logical plans. The subject technology updates the query based on results from the executed first operation from the query generates a second plurality of logical plans for executing a new query for a remaining set of operations from the query based on the results and respective physical plans for each of the second plurality of logical plans and selects a physical plan with a lowest execution cost among the respective physical plans for each of the second plurality of logical plans. A second operation is then executed from the new query according to the selected physical plan. The new query is then updated based on results from the executed second operation from the new query. For a second new query based on a remaining set of operations from the new query the subject technology repeats steps for generating logical plans selecting a physical plan executing an operation among the second remaining set of operations and updating the second new query until the second new query is complete.

The subject technology further includes a system. The system includes memory one or more processors one or more modules stored in memory and configured for execution by the one or more processors. The system includes a protocol module configured to receive a query. The system includes a parser module configured to receive the query from the protocol module validate a syntax of the received query convert the query into a query tree if the syntax is validated and identify each data element referenced in the query tree. Additionally the system includes a binder module configured to configured to add metadata for each data element referenced by the query tree. The system also includes an optimizer module configured to determine one or more physical execution plans based on the query tree estimate a cost for each of the physical execution plans based on the metadata for each data element referenced by the query tree and select a respective physical execution plan with an overall lowest estimated cost. Further the system includes an execution engine module configured to execute an operation from the query based on the selected respective physical execution plan and persist data resulting from the executed operation from the query.

Additionally the subject technology provides for receiving a query for data stored across a plurality of data systems generating a plurality of logical plans for executing the query and a respective plurality of physical plans for executing each of the plurality of logical plans and determining an execution cost for each of the physical plans. An operation from the physical plan having the lowest execution cost is then executed and the query is updated based on results from the executed operation. Further the subject technology repeats the generating determining executing and updated steps until the query is complete.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent from the following detailed description where various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

Some approaches to handle a heterogeneous computing environment for accessing data across disparate systems may resolve only a part of the problem of accessing these types of widely spread and different data stores. Performance ease of use manageability interoperability cost of ownership and other concerns should be addressed to resolve this complicated problem in an effective manner.

Adding to all of this difficulty is the emergence and acceptance of new unstructured data stores such as HADOOP a software framework that supports data intensive distributed applications which operate totally differently from structured data stores. Allowing federation over these engines in addition to structured stores is a much more complex problem requiring a new approach to federation. Although the emergence of these unstructured data stores increases the need for federation to allow melding of data from both structured and unstructured stores it increases complexity of doing so dramatically.

A related significant hindrance to using unstructured data such as HADOOP provides within map reduce is the need to do programming for specific functionality. This increases the skill level required dramatically and prevents common business users from extracting value from unstructured data. The melding of data from structured and unstructured stores is also difficult and complex requiring yet another skill set. All of these requirements hinder the adoption of the use of unstructured data significantly and greatly complicate the combined use of data as a whole.

In some configurations the subject technology advantageously fills the aforementioned deficiencies by providing a system including a federated query engine that advantageously allows for automatic querying of both structured and unstructured data alike from multiple data engines and stores without prior configuration and with optimal performance. In this manner the herein described federated query engine provides access to any and all data stores with a single language and access point.

One objective of the subject technology is to abstract the physical storage of the data from the logical use of that data. This objective can be accomplished in one or more of the following ways providing a single connection point to query data in multiple engines using a single tool and single language invisibly managing the movement of data between the engines that partake in the query execution providing access to unstructured data in the same syntactical manner as structured data and providing the ability to process data within a structured or an unstructured engine in equivalent functionality.

Another objective of the subject technology is to provide fast performance without the user needing to understand the details of cost for each operation on various systems. This objective may be accomplished by costing both structured and unstructured data operations across multiple data engines in a normalized fashion taking into account data movement costs then providing periodic re optimization to ensure that the best plan is chosen as information becomes more precise.

Another objective of the subject technology is to produce metadata and cost metrics for completed operations from queries that can be used subsequently to produce performance predictions and improve on cost analysis in future executions. This allows the herein described system to improve in predictive accuracy through time. Yet another objective of the subject technology is to provide a solution for data access among various data stores and engines and types that does not suffer from many of the problems or deficiencies associated with other solutions.

In some configurations the computing system includes a federated query engine for executing a data query or queries across multiple data systems for accessing different types of data stored in a database or similar storage scheme on a respective data system. In this manner the federated query engine may coordinate execution of a query across the multiple data systems. The federated query engine is described in further detail below.

As illustrated in the data systems and are multiple autonomous data systems that respectively store data data and data . Moreover the data systems and including data stored therein may aggregately form a federated data system that manages provides federated data across the multiple data systems. Some examples of data stored by a respective data system may include but are not limited to data stored according to a relational database management system data from an online social networking service data stored across a distributed system e.g. NoSQL HADOOP metadata etc. Other types of data may be provided in a respective data system and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

As illustrated in the example of the computing system and the data systems and are interconnected via a network . In one example the computing system utilizes an appropriate data connection s e.g. Java Database Connectivity Open Database Connectivity etc. for communicating with each of the data systems. Over one or more data connections the computing system can transmit and receive data via the network to and from the data systems and . The network can include but is not limited to a local network remote network or an interconnected network of networks e.g. Internet . Similarly the data systems and may be configured to communicate over the network with the computing system by using any sort of network communications data protocol.

Although the example shown in includes a single computing system the computing system can include a respective cluster of servers computers that perform a same set of functions provided by the computing system in a distributed and or load balanced manner. A cluster can be understood as a group of servers computers that are linked together to seamlessly perform the same set of functions which can provide performance reliability and availability advantages over a single server computer architecture. Additionally other data systems may be included in the example computing environment and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

The system includes memory one or more processors and one or more modules stored in memory and configured for execution by the one or more processors. As shown in the system includes several modules for providing different functionality. According to one aspect of the subject technology a federated query engine is provided that includes the following components a protocol module a parser module a binder module an optimizer module a metadata manager module a cost estimation module and an execution engine module .

The protocol module is configured to manage end user connections by utilizing standardized database connectivity technologies such as JAVA Database Connectivity JDBC or Open Database Connectivity ODBC etc. In this manner the protocol module is configured to allow for a variety of connection types to be utilized. After a connection is established one or more queries received from a corresponding end user are transmitted to the parser module for validation. For instance an end user connects to the federated query engine through an industry standard protocol such as but not limited to ODBC or JDBC. The end user then submits a query using a common language such as SQL. The protocol module extracts the text of the query into a standard internal format e.g. a format that the federated query engine may process irrespective of the protocol used to connect to the federated query engine. The protocol module then transfers the query to the parser module for processing.

The parser module is configured to validate that a syntax of the language used within the received query is without syntactical error according to a set of predetermined syntactical rules. After the syntax of the query is validated the query is converted into a query tree which is then transmitted to the binder module . By way of example the parser module receives the query from the protocol module and parses out the words or tokens. The parser module is configured to check the syntax of the query for correctness based on the parsed words or tokens. If the syntax of the query is correct the parser module converts the query into a query tree. Examples of a query tree are described in more detail with respect to below. The parser module is configured to then identify each data element referenced in the query tree. An example of a data element may be a table stored on a particular data system or similar source of data. The parser module then transmits the query tree to the binder module .

The binder module receives the query tree from the parser module . The binder module is configured to access the metadata manager module to lookup each data element referenced by the query tree to add associated metadata. For instance the binder module contacts the metadata manager module for each data element referenced in the query to bind associated metadata to each data element. After all associated metadata is bound to corresponding data elements referenced within the query tree the binder module transmits the query tree to the optimizer module .

The metadata manager module is configured to bind to the data element any known metadata about that element. Such metadata may include a number of rows row size and or data types. The metadata manager module is configured to contact an appropriate persistent data store for that such metadata. In one example the persistent data store is identified by the naming convention of the data element which contains an identifiable reference to the data element location. For instance the metadata manager module contacts an appropriate metadata store for the data element being processed. The metadata manager module is configured to utilize any required communication mechanisms for the various metadata stores. In this manner any metadata synchronization issues between the federated query engine and the data stored on the metadata stores are minimized.

In one example the metadata stores respectively correspond to a data system registered with the federated query engine. In particular a metadata store may store metadata for unstructured data elements when the system does not carry enough metadata. In one example the metadata for unstructured data elements is stored within a relational database that allows the metadata to be controlled modified by the system . In instances in which other entities are able to modify the metadata in a given metadata store the metadata manager module is configured to perform a lookup of the metadata in that metadata store. Thus the metadata manager module does not necessarily store any persistent metadata and instead performs lookups as required e.g. when other entities may modify the metadata and the system does not control the metadata . Any matching metadata for a given data element from the query tree is then returned to the binder module for that data element.

After the metadata manager module returns metadata to the binder module the binder module determines an output data size of a bottommost node in the query tree and then the above nodes are able to calculate an estimate of an output data size for each of the above nodes. This is done because a shape of a query plan may change as a logical exploration continues up through the query tree. The binder module is configured to then transmit the query tree augmented with metadata and the data size estimates to the optimizer module for processing.

The optimizer module is configured to initially process a logical representation of the query tree and then determine any alternative physical plans. Examples of these operations are described in further detail in . For instance the optimizer module makes the best choice on how to execute the query given multiple possibilities based on the logical and physical plans. In one example the optimizer module is configured to determine an estimated cost to each possible execution plan for each required operation or group of operations and then select the best overall execution plan based on the estimated cost. As described in further detail below the estimated cost may be based on a historical record of completed queries business rules actual dynamic runtime loading metrics and or other data or metrics.

Costs may be initially seeded with initial predetermined values e.g. based on one or more operations for small medium or large systems for each data system and each subsequently executed operation may be statistically incorporated into the initial predetermined values as part of the historical record for determining an estimated cost. In one example the estimated cost in the historical record is allowed to gradually drift based on a weighted average between a current value for a recently executed query and an existing value e.g. based on the initial predetermined cost . The aforementioned estimated cost may be derived through utilizing the cost estimation module . As an additional alternative implementation the cost estimation module processes each operation or groups of operations and queries each functionally capable data engine provided by a corresponding data system to determine an estimated cost in some configurations. The estimated cost may be based on latency for the data system cost per row cost per operation in the query etc. Actual dynamic runtime loading metrics may also be utilized to determine the estimated cost. With respect to business rules the cost estimation module may remove some options according to one or more business rules that specify time of day constraints security concerns etc. Additionally the cost estimation module is configured to normalize the costs across multiple data systems to present a normalized cost value to the optimizer module . The optimizer module is configured to then select the overall best execution plan based on the corresponding estimated cost now normalized . The selected execution plan for the query is then transmitted to the execution engine module for execution.

The execution engine module receives the selected execution plan for execution of the query as represented in the query tree and begins to perform the necessary execution by generating proper syntax for the corresponding data system and requesting the engine to execute an operation or set of operations from the query. In one example to execute the plan the execution engine module uses appropriate drivers or connection methods to connect to each data system and transfers the proper syntax across the proper protocols. The execution engine module also executes any required data movement operations to move data from one data system to another through appropriate protocols and commands.

Once that operation or set of operations is complete the execution engine module may persist any data resulting from the operation s and then retrieve further metadata about the operation and results. The execution engine module then sends any updated metadata information back to the optimizer module and requests a re optimization given the results of the operation s . The re optimization may result in a changed plan of execution for the remainder of the operations from the execution plan that have not yet executed. The execution engine module then receives a plan with the lowest cost from the optimizer module and performs another operation from the query. These aforementioned steps of re optimization may be repeatedly performed for each of the remaining operations in the query. However in some instances re optimization is not performed.

Once the query is entirely executed the execution engine module is configured to then transmit results of the query back to the protocol module for transmitting to the end user. When the entire execution plan has been executed the results from the execution engine module are transmitted to the protocol module . The protocol module is configured to format the results and submit the results to the end user using the appropriate protocols.

Additionally in some configurations the metadata manager module is contacted by the execution engine module to record new values for actual execution time sizes etc. into the metadata about a given data system. In this manner the system builds a historical record per operation executed to refine the data over time and allow for more accurate estimations in the future. These data values can be specific to include things such as the size of data processed loading on the system at the time individual step operation executed type of data etc.

The process begins at by receiving a query for data stored across a multiple data systems. The data stored across the multiple data systems may include federated data in some implementations.

At the process generates logical plans for executing the query and respective physical plans for executing each of the logical plans. In some configurations each logical plan includes a sequence of one or more operations for executing the query. In one example each logical plan comprises a query tree including one or more nodes each node representing a respective operation in the sequence of one or more operations for executing the query. Each node of the query tree either has an expected data size or is capable of calculating the data size through recursive algorithms. Thus rather than include an estimated output data size for all of the nodes in the query tree it is more beneficial to recursively calculate a size estimate at any stage for any of the above nodes in the query tree. Further as mentioned above the process at generates respective physical plans for executing the query on the data systems for each of the logical plans. Each physical plan represents a set of operations that describe corresponding physical steps for executing the operations. For instance a respective physical plan may describe permutations for physically moving data from one data system to another data system for performing one or more operations from the query. Moreover some configurations provide that an available data system which does not initially include any of the required data from the query may be included in a respective physical plan. Thus a respective physical plan need not be limited to the actual data systems which initially include the required data from the query and any available data system may be included for a given physical plan for performing an operation s from the query.

The process at then determines an execution cost for each physical plan from the respective physical plans. In some configurations the process looks at costs associated with latency cost per row movement costs and or cost per operation in order to determine the execution cost for each physical plan. In one example the costs may be determined when applied to the aforementioned size estimates and or based on additional metadata associated with a given data system. For instance the metadata may be based on a historical record of costs for performing respective operations of previously executed operations which in turn may be normalized across different data systems. Initially each data system may be seeded with initial predetermined costs e.g. based on one or more operations for small medium or large systems and each subsequently executed operation may be statistically incorporated into the initial predetermined costs as part of the historical record for determining an estimated cost. In one example the estimated cost in the historical record is allowed to gradually drift based on a weighted average between a current value for a recently executed query and an existing value e.g. based on the initial predetermined cost . In this regard the historical record of costs may be weighted more heavily toward older historical data than for newer data.

The process at then selects a respective physical plan with a lowest determined execution cost among the determined execution cost for each physical plan from the respective physical plans. In this manner the process may utilize the respective physical plan that is predicted to provide optimal performance based on execution costs.

The process continues to to execute the first operation from the query tree according to the selected physical plan. The first operation may correspond with a bottom node from the query tree.

At the process updates the query based on results from the executed first operation. In some configurations as part of updating the query the process may persist data resulting from the executed first operation from the query. Alternatively the process may not persist data but may continue to execute more operations from the query before deciding to persist the data. By way of example the process may determine to persist data when no dependencies exist after a particular operation. Further the process may determine to persist data based on the data systems involved and the type of data movement that is to be performed. For example in a case where data can be streamed between locations such as between different data systems persisting the data may not be needed in this case. In other cases the data must be prepared for movement between locations and the data is persisted. In some configurations movement of data between heterogeneous data systems will require some data to be persisted. The persisted data may be stored in a temporary table on a given data system for subsequent access in some configurations.

The process at 1 generates logical plans for executing a new query for a remaining set of operations from the query and 2 generates respective physical plans for each of the logical plans for executing the new query. In some configurations generating the respective physical plans may be based on persisted data and or newly available meta data. In this regard corresponding size estimates in a respective physical plan may be replaced with the results of the first operation or from the results stored in the persisted data in order to generate the respective physical plans. At the process determines an execution cost for each of the respective physical plans. Next the process at selects a physical plan with a lowest execution cost among the respective physical plans.

The process at executes a second operation from the query according to the selected physical plan. Alternatively the process in some instances continues to execute one or more operations until reaching a point for performing a re optimization of logical and physical plans based on the results of the executed operations. At the process updates the new query based on results of the executed second operation or executed operations . The process then ends. In this manner the process may execute the plan with the lowest execution cost after completing each operation in the query as the plans are re optimized to account for the results of a previous operation which may result in a more accurate estimation of costs for the plans.

Although executing a first and second operation are described in the example of it should be understood that the process repeats the above described steps for re optimizing the physical plans for the remaining operations until each operation from the query is executed. The process may then provide the results of the query for output after the query is completely executed. The process then ends.

For each of the query trees and corresponding to respective logical plans for the query the federated query engine may provide a set of physical plan alternatives for executing the query . As mentioned above the query includes operations on tables A B and C and tables A B and C are respectively stored on three different data systems and . A set of physical plan alternatives for the query trees and are respectively illustrated in described below.

A set of alternative physical plans and for the query tree that logically represents the query in is shown in . Each alternative physical plan includes a set of nodes representing operations to be performed on each of the aforementioned data systems or . The federated query engine may execute a particular alternative physical plan starting from a bottom node and continuing up until reaching a root node of the alternative physical plan. For example to execute the alternative physical plan the federated query engine executes starting at the bottom node a data transfer operation for transferring results of an operation Select a.id from A at data system over to a table T1 at data system . The federated query engine then performs operations in the middle node of the alternative physical plan including a data transfer operation for transferring results of an operation select T1.id B.name B.id as bid from T1 join B on T1.id B.id at data system over to table T2 at data system . The federated query engine may continue to the top node of the alternative physical plan to execute an operation select T2.id T2.name C.state FROM T2.join C on T2.bid C.id at data system . The federated query engine may return the results of this operation to the user. In a case in which the federated query engine selects one of the other alternative physical plans and for executing the query the selected plan among the alternative physical plans and may be executed by the federated query engine in a similar manner e.g. starting from the bottom node and continuing up until reaching the top node .

Each of the alternative physical plans and of include an estimated cost for executing the corresponding alternative physical plan. In one example an estimated cost of a corresponding alternative physical plan may represent a runtime cost for executing a query according to the corresponding alternative physical plan and may be based a number of I O operations required for executing operations within the query an estimated amount of time for executing the operations processing CPU requirements expected utilization of network resources estimated data transfer times and other factors etc. In the example of the alternative physical plan has the lowest estimated cost e.g. among the set of alternative physical plans and . In the example of a set of alternative physical plans and are shown. The alternative physical plan has the lowest estimated cost e.g. among the set of alternative physical plans and . Thus the alternative physical plan has the lowest overall estimated cost among all of the alternative physical plans shown in . In one example the federated query engine selects the alternative physical plan as the alternative physical plan with the lowest overall cost and executes one or more operations from the alternative physical plan by starting from the bottom node and continuing up to the top node similar to the example described above. The federated query engine may return the results of the query after performing the operations in the top node of the alternative physical plan .

In some configurations the federated query engine may not execute all of the operations for the nodes for a given alternative physical plan such as the selected physical plan . For instance a marker for re optimization may be included at the middle node of the alternative physical plan . The federated query engine may execute the operations for the bottom node persist the results of the bottom node and then perform re optimization of logical and physical plans for a remaining set of operations for the query in order to provide a new set of logical and physical plans for the remaining set of operations of the query . A subsequent re optimization of logical and physical plans for other remaining operations of the query may be performed in a similar manner.

The process begins at by receiving a query for data stored across multiple data systems. At the process generates one or more logical representations of a query tree for the query. In some configurations the logical representations constitute logical plans for executing the query. The process identifies the logical plans corresponding to the logical representations of the query tree that have the best chance for physical execution at highest performance according to the capabilities of respective data systems that may execute a portion of the query. The logical plans that do not represent expected reasonable performance are not added into the list of plans that are retained.

Next the process starts working on the physical execution plan. The following steps are performed for each logical plan that was generated at . To create a physical execution plan the process at starts evaluating at the bottom of the logical plan which is the source data e.g. a table in one example.

At the process builds physical plan alternatives for each logical plan from the bottom of the logical plan where source data is read up to the return of results to the end user. The process builds plan alternatives for executing the first logical operation on each of the available data systems. In one example available data systems may include data systems that do not have persistent or source data which would then include the need to move data from the source data system to the data system where the operator will be executed under the plan.

Next the process at computes an execution cost that represents the cost of moving data if necessary and executing the first operation from the query. The costs are based on normalized cost metadata which represents the ability of the each registered data system to perform that operation on the prescribed amount of data plus the cost of moving the prescribed amount of data to that data system. This step is repeated for each of the alternative plans.

At this point the number of alternative plans could be up to the cube of the number of registered systems. Each plan has an overall cost associated with all execution up to the point of the currently evaluated logical operator. The process at then prunes out all but the single lowest cost plan per registered system. The total number of alternative plans for execution up to the currently evaluated operator is now reduced to no more than the number of registered systems.

The process at places a marker if necessary at a point in the physical execution plan where re optimization should take place. Different techniques may be utilized to determine if a marker is needed and also at which point to place such a marker. In some instances the process may determine that no marker is needed at all.

At the process determines if more logical operators corresponding to remaining operations in the query exist. If so this series of steps is repeated for all logical operators up the query tree. For each logical operator the process builds all available plans using the remaining alternative plans from previously evaluated operators costs all the alternative plans and chooses only the best physical plan per registered system based on lowest cost. At the process determines if other logical plans exist e.g. from and the process then repeats the steps at until all logical plans are processed. Once the process reaches the top of each of the logical plans the process has computed the total cost for executing the plan with the top operator on each of the registered systems.

At the process then chooses the lowest overall execution cost among the logical plan alternatives. In one example the process executes the plan tree from the bottom up. While executing the plan the process watches for the aforementioned re optimization markers placed in the plan by the process at . At the point that the process reaches a re optimization marker the execution stops at . Alternatively if no re optimization markers are found the process continues until completion of the plan. For each step executed completely the process retrieves actual real data size value e.g. row counts and sizes etc. for the resulting intermediate data results at which may be supplied through some manner from the data system upon completion. At the process replaces size estimates with real data size values in the plan.

At the process determines if more operations are required to execute in the query and if so a dynamic re optimization begins. In this instance the process sends back the data containing actual values from the executed portion of the query and continues to . At the process generates one or more logical representations of the remaining operations from the query. The process then repeats steps for reevaluating the logical plans and physical plans for the remaining steps but utilizes the actual data size values for the executed portion of the query in place of the original estimates. At this point the remainder of the execution tree may change from the original or it might remain the same. Any changes would potentially affect the remainder of the tree that has not executed yet.

The process again submits a chosen execution plan at and the process executes the portion of the execution plan up to the next marker at . The process continues to until the entire query execution tree has been successfully executed. The process then ends.

Many of the above described features and applications are implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a machine readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of machine readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The machine readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory and or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some implementations multiple software components can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software components. In some implementations multiple software subject components can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally a combination of separate programs that together implement a software component s described here is within the scope of the subject technology. In some implementations the software programs when installed to operate on one or more systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in a form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in some form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Some configurations are implemented as software processes that include one or more application programming interfaces APIs in an environment with calling program code interacting with other program code being called through the one or more interfaces. Various function calls messages or other types of invocations which can include various kinds of parameters can be transferred via the APIs between the calling program and the code being called. In addition an API can provide the calling program code the ability to use data types or classes defined in the API and implemented in the called program code.

The following description describes an example system in which aspects of the subject technology can be implemented.

The bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of the system . For instance the bus communicatively connects the processing unit s with the read only memory the system memory and the storage device .

From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject technology. The processing unit s can be a single processor or a multi core processor in different implementations.

The read only memory ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by the processing unit s and other modules of the system . The storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when the system is off. Some implementations of the subject technology use a mass storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as the storage device .

Other implementations use a removable storage device such as a flash drive a floppy disk and its corresponding disk drive as the storage device . Like the storage device the system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device the system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory. The system memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some implementations the subject technology s processes are stored in the system memory the storage device and or the read only memory . For example the various memory units include instructions for processing multimedia items in accordance with some implementations. From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.

The bus also connects to the optional input and output interfaces and . The optional input interface enables the user to communicate information and select commands to the system. The optional input interface can interface with alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices . The optional output interface can provide display images generated by the system . The optional output interface can interface with printers and display devices such as cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD . Some implementations can interface with devices such as a touchscreen that functions as both input and output devices.

Finally as shown in bus also couples system to a network interface through a network adapter not shown . In this manner the computer can be a part of a network of computers such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or an interconnected network of networks such as the Internet. The components of system can be used in conjunction with the subject technology.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

Some implementations include electronic components such as microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine readable or computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic and or solid state hard drives read only and recordable Blu Ray discs ultra density optical discs optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code such as is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi core processors that execute software some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . In some implementations such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.

As used in this specification and the claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and the claims of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude wireless signals wired download signals and other ephemeral signals.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be a form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in a form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Configurations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or a combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by a form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some configurations a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

It is understood that a specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes can be rearranged or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps can be performed simultaneously. For example in certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing can be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the configurations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all configurations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

The previous description is provided to enable a person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein can be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject technology.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect can apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as an aspect can refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration can apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as a configuration can refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

