---

title: Inhibitors of the renal outer medullary potassium channel
abstract: 

and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, which are inhibitors of the ROMK (Kir1.1) channel. The compounds act as diuretics and natriuretics and are valuable pharmaceutically active compounds for the therapy and prophylaxis of medical conditions including cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension and conditions resulting from excessive salt and water retention.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08999991&OS=08999991&RS=08999991
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 08999991
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121022
---
This application is a U.S. National Phase application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application No. PCT US12 061296 filed Oct. 22 2012 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 550 956 filed Oct. 25 2011.

The Renal Outer Medullary Potassium ROMK channel Kir1.1 see e.g. Ho K. et al. Nature 1993 362 6415 p. 31 8.1 2 and Shuck M. E. et al. J Biol Chem 1994 269 39 p. 24261 70 is a member of the inward rectifier family of potassium channels expressed in two regions of the kidney thick ascending loop of Henle TALH and cortical collecting duct CCD see Hebert S. C. et al. Physiol Rev 2005 85 1 p. 319 713 . At the TALH ROMK participates in potassium recycling across the luminal membrane which is critical for the function of the Na K 2Cl co transporter the rate determining step for salt reuptake in this part of the nephron. At the CCD ROMK provides a pathway for potassium secretion that is tightly coupled to sodium uptake through the amiloride sensitive sodium channel see Reinalter S. C. et al. Acta Physiol Scand 2004 181 4 p. 513 21 and Wang W. Curr Opin Nephrol Hypertens 2004 13 5 p. 549 55 . Selective inhibitors of the ROMK channel also referred to herein as inhibitors of ROMK or ROMK inhibitors are predicted to represent novel diuretics for the treatment of hypertension and other conditions where treatment with a diuretic would be beneficial with potentially reduced liabilities i.e. hypo or hyperkalemia new onset of diabetes dyslipidemia over the currently used clinical agents see Lifton R. P. A. G. Gharavi and D. S. Geller Cell 2001 104 4 p. 545 56 . Human genetics Ji W. et al. Nat Genet 2008 40 5 p. 592 9 and Tobin M. D. et al. Hypertension 2008 51 6 p. 1658 64 and genetic ablation of ROMK in rodents see Lorenz J. N. et al. J Biol Chem 2002 277 40 p. 37871 80 and Lu M. et al. J Biol Chem 2002 277 40 p. 37881 7 support these expectations. To our knowledge the first publicly disclosed small molecule selective inhibitors of ROMK including VU590 were reported from work done at Vanderbilt University as described in Lewis L. M. et al. 7.1 Mol Pharmacol 2009 76 5 p. 1094 1103. The compound VU591 was later reported in Bhave G. et al. 1.1 Mol Pharmacol 2011 79 1 p. 42 50 the text of which states that ROMK Kir1.1 is a putative drug target for a novel class of loop diuretics that would lower blood pressure without causing hypokalemia. 

Patent application publication number WO2010 129379 published Nov. 11 2010 having common representative Merck Sharp Dohme Corp. also published as US2010 0286123 on same date describes ROMK inhibitors having the generic formula 

Patent application publication number WO2012 058134 published May 3 2012 having common representative Merck Sharp Dohme Corp. describes ROMK inhibitors having the generic formula 

Patent application publication number WO2012 058116 published May 3 2012 having common representative Merck Sharp Dohme Corp. describes ROMK inhibitors having the generic formula 

However continuing discovery of selective small molecule inhibitors of ROMK is still needed for the development of new treatments for hypertension and related disorders. The compounds of Formula I and salts thereof of this invention are selective inhibitors of the ROMK channel and could be used for the treatment of hypertension heart failure and other conditions where treatment with a diuretic or natriuretic would be beneficial.

The present invention provides compounds of Formula I defined herein and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. The compounds of Formula I are inhibitors of the ROMK Kir1.1 channel. As a result the compounds of Formula I could be used in methods of treatment inhibition or amelioration of one or more disease states that could benefit from inhibition of ROMK. The compounds of this invention could be used in methods of treatment which comprise administering a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of a compound of Formula I to a patient in need of a diuretic and or natriuretic agent. Therefore the compounds of Formula I could be valuable pharmaceutically active compounds for the therapy prophylaxis or both of medical conditions including but not limited to cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension and heart failure and conditions associated with excessive salt and water retention. The compounds of this invention could further be used in combination with other therapeutically effective agents including but not limited to other drugs which are useful for the treatment of hypertension heart failure and conditions associated with excessive salt and water retention. The invention furthermore relates to processes for preparing compounds of Formula I and pharmaceutical compositions which comprise compounds of Formula I. These and other aspects of the invention will be evident from the description contained herein.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula I or II wherein Zis z1 a. In a class thereof are compounds wherein R Rand Rare each H and Ris H OH or oxo and more particularly Ris H or OH. In a sub class are compounds wherein Ris H.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula I or II wherein Zis z1 b. In a class thereof are compounds wherein R Rand Rare each H and Ris H OH or oxo and more particularly Ris H or OH. In a sub class are compounds wherein Ris H.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula I or II wherein Zis z1 c. In a class thereof are compounds wherein the dashed bonds in z1 c represent Calkanediyl and z1 c has the formula z1 c1 

All structural Formulas and embodiments described herein include the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds defined therein.

As used herein except if noted otherwise alkyl is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms. Commonly used abbreviations for alkyl groups are used throughout the specification. For example the term Calkyl or C Calkyl means linear or branched chain alkyl groups including all isomers having the specified number of carbon atoms and includes all of the hexyl and pentyl isomers as well as n iso sec and tert butyl butyl s butyl i butyl t butyl Bu butyl n and i propyl Pr propyl ethyl Et and methyl Me . Halo means F Cl Br and I. In the Formula I preferred halos are F and Cl.

As used herein alkanediyl is a saturated aliphatic divalent hydrocarbon group having the specified number of carbon atoms. Examples of alkanediyl groups include but are not limited to methanediyl ethanediyl propanediyl butanediyl and the like. The term Calkanediyl describes methanediyl or ethanediyl.

Unless expressly depicted or described otherwise variables depicted in a structural formula with a floating bond such as R are permitted on any available carbon atom in the ring to which the variable is attached.

The present invention encompasses all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of Formula I. Centers of asymmetry that are present in the compounds of Formula I can all independently of one another have R or S configuration. When bonds to the chiral carbon are depicted as straight lines in the structural Formulas of the invention or when a compound name is recited without a chiral designation for a chiral carbon it is understood that both the R and S configurations of the chiral carbon and hence both enantiomers and mixtures thereof are embraced within the Formula or by the name. The production of specific stereoisomers or mixtures thereof may be identified in the Examples where such stereoisomers or mixtures were obtained but this in no way limits the inclusion of all stereoisomers and mixtures thereof from being within the scope of this invention.

The invention includes all possible enantiomers and diastereomers and mixtures of two or more stereoisomers for example mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers in all ratios. Thus enantiomers are a subject of the invention in enantiomerically pure form both as levorotatory and as dextrorotatory antipodes in the form of racemates and in the form of mixtures of the two enantiomers in all ratios. In the case of a cis trans isomerism the invention includes both the cis form and the trans form as well as mixtures of these forms in all ratios. The preparation of individual stereoisomers can be carried out if desired by separation of a mixture by customary methods for example by chromatography or crystallization by the use of stereochemically uniform starting materials for the synthesis or by stereoselective synthesis. Optionally a derivatization can be carried out before a separation of stereoisomers. The separation of a mixture of stereoisomers can be carried out at an intermediate step during the synthesis of a compound of Formula I or it can be done on a final racemic product. Absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing a stereogenic center of known configuration. Where compounds of this invention are capable of tautomerization all individual tautomers as well as mixtures thereof are included in the scope of this invention. The present invention includes all such isomers as well as salts solvates which includes hydrates and solvated salts of such racemates enantiomers diastereomers and tautomers and mixtures thereof.

Reference to the compounds of Formula I herein encompasses the compounds of Formula II and all embodiments thereof. Reference to the compounds of this invention as those of a specific formula or embodiment or any other generic structural formula or specific compound described or claimed herein is intended to encompass the specific compound or compounds falling within the scope of the Formula or embodiment including salts thereof particularly pharmaceutically acceptable salts solvates including hydrates of such compounds and solvated or hydrated salt forms thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise.

In the compounds of Formula I the atoms may exhibit their natural isotopic abundances or one or more of the atoms may be artificially enriched in a particular isotope having the same atomic number but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number predominantly found in nature. The present invention is meant to include all suitable isotopic variations of the compounds of Formula I. For example different isotopic forms of hydrogen H include protium H and deuterium H . Protium is the predominant hydrogen isotope found in nature. Enriching for deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages such as increasing in vivo half life or reducing dosage requirements or may provide a compound useful as a standard for characterization of biological samples. Isotopically enriched compounds within Formula I can be prepared without undue experimentation by conventional techniques well known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Schemes and Examples herein using appropriate isotopically enriched reagents and or intermediates.

When the compounds of Formula I contain one or more acidic or basic groups the invention also includes the corresponding pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Thus the compounds of Formula I which contain acidic groups can be used according to the invention for example as alkali metal salts alkaline earth metal salts or as ammonium salts. Examples of such salts include but are not limited to sodium salts potassium salts calcium salts magnesium salts or salts with ammonia or organic amines such as for example ethylamine ethanolamine triethanolamine or amino acids. Compounds of Formula I which contain one or more basic groups i.e. groups which can be protonated can be used according to the invention in the form of their acid addition salts with inorganic or organic acids as for example but not limited to salts with hydrogen chloride hydrogen bromide phosphoric acid sulfuric acid nitric acid benzenesulfonic acid methanesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid naphthalenedisulfonic acids oxalic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid tartaric acid lactic acid salicylic acid benzoic acid formic acid propionic acid pivalic acid diethylacetic acid malonic acid succinic acid pimelic acid fumaric acid maleic acid malic acid sulfaminic acid phenylpropionic acid gluconic acid ascorbic acid isonicotinic acid citric acid adipic acid etc. If the compounds of Formula I simultaneously contain acidic and basic groups in the molecule the invention also includes in addition to the salt forms mentioned inner salts or betaines zwitterions . Salts can be obtained from the compounds of Formula I by customary methods which are known to the person skilled in the art for example by combination with an organic or inorganic acid or base in a solvent or dispersant or by anion exchange or cation exchange from other salts. The present invention also includes all salts of the compounds of Formula I which owing to low physiological compatibility are not directly suitable for use in pharmaceuticals but which can be used for example as intermediates for chemical reactions or for the preparation of pharmaceutically acceptable salts.

Furthermore compounds of the present invention may exist in amorphous form and or one or more crystalline forms and as such all amorphous and crystalline forms and mixtures thereof of the compounds of Formula I are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention. In addition some of the compounds of the instant invention may form solvates with water i.e. a hydrate or common organic solvents. Such solvates and hydrates particularly the pharmaceutically acceptable solvates and hydrates of the instant compounds are likewise encompassed within the scope of this invention along with un solvated and anhydrous forms.

Any pharmaceutically acceptable pro drug modification of a compound of this invention which results in conversion in vivo to a compound within the scope of this invention is also within the scope of this invention. For example esters can optionally be made by esterification of an available carboxylic acid group or by formation of an ester on an available hydroxy group in a compound. Similarly labile amides can be made. Pharmaceutically acceptable esters or amides of the compounds of this invention may be prepared to act as pro drugs which can be hydrolyzed back to an acid or COO depending on the pH of the fluid or tissue where conversion takes place or hydroxy form particularly in vivo and as such are encompassed within the scope of this invention. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable pro drug modifications include but are not limited to Calkyl esters and Calkyl substituted with phenyl esters.

Accordingly the compounds within the generic structural formulas embodiments and specific compounds described and claimed herein encompass salts all possible stereoisomers and tautomers physical forms e.g. amorphous and crystalline forms solvate and hydrate forms thereof and any combination of these forms as well as the salts thereof pro drug forms thereof and salts of pro drug forms thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise.

The compounds of Formula I according to the invention are inhibitors of ROMK and therefore could be used as diuretic and or natriuretic agents. ROMK inhibitors may be used to help to increase urination and increase urine volume and also to prevent or reduce reabsorption of sodium in the kidneys leading to increased excretion of sodium and water. Therefore the compounds could be used for treatment or prophylaxis or both of disorders that benefit from increased excretion of water and sodium from the body. Accordingly the compounds of this invention could be used in a method for inhibiting ROMK comprising administering a compound of Formula I in a ROMK inhibitory effective amount to a patient in need thereof. The inhibition of ROMK by the compounds of Formula I can be examined for example in the Thallium Flux Assay described below. Moreover this invention also relates to the use of the compounds of Formula I or salts thereof to validate in vitro assays for example but not limited to the Thallium Flux Assay described herein.

The compounds of this invention could be used in a method for causing diuresis natriuresis or both comprising administering a compound of Formula I in a therapeutically effective amount to a patient in need thereof. Therefore the compounds of Formula I of this invention could be used in methods for treatment of prevention of or reduction of risk for developing medical conditions that benefit from increased excretion of water and sodium such as but not limited to one or more of hypertension heart failure both acute and chronic the latter also known as congestive heart failure and or other conditions associated with excessive salt and water retention. Furthermore the compounds of Formula I could be used in methods for treatment of prevention of or reduction of risk for developing one or more disorders such as pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH cardiovascular disease diabetes mellitus diabetes insipidus post operative volume overload endothelial dysfunction diastolic dysfunction systolic dysfunction stable and unstable angina pectoris thromboses restenosis myocardial infarction stroke cardiac insufficiency pulmonary hypertonia atherosclerosis hepatic cirrhosis ascitis pre eclampsia cerebral edema nephropathy glomerulonephritis nephrotic syndrome acute and chronic kidney insufficiency also referred to as chronic kidney disease or more generally as renal impairment acute tubular necrosis hypercalcemia idiopathic edema Dent s disease Meniere s disease edematous states glaucoma benign intracranial hypertension and other conditions for which a diuretic or natriuretic or both would have therapeutic or prophylactic benefit. The compounds of the invention may be administered to a patient having or at risk of having one or more conditions for which a diuretic or natriuretic or both would have therapeutic or prophylactic benefit such as those described herein.

The compounds of Formula I may potentially have reduced liabilities for example hypo or hyperkalemia new onset of diabetes dyslipidemia etc. over currently used clinical agents. Also the compounds may have reduced risk for diuretic tolerance which can be a problem with long term use of loop diuretics.

In general compounds that are ROMK inhibitors can be identified as those compounds which when tested have an ICof 5 M or less preferably 1 M or less and more preferably 0.25 M or less in the Thallium Flux Assay which is described in more detail further below.

The dosage amount of the compound to be administered depends on the individual case and is as is customary to be adapted to the individual circumstances to achieve an optimum effect. Thus it depends on the nature and the severity of the disorder to be treated and also on the sex age weight and individual responsiveness of the human or animal to be treated on the efficacy and duration of action of the compounds used on whether the therapy is acute or chronic or prophylactic or on whether other active compounds are administered in addition to compounds of Formula I. A consideration of these factors is well within the purview of the ordinarily skilled clinician for the purpose of determining the therapeutically effective or prophylactically effective dosage amount needed to prevent counter or arrest the progress of the condition. It is expected that the compound will be administered chronically on a daily basis for a length of time appropriate to treat or prevent the medical condition relevant to the patient including a course of therapy lasting days months years or the life of the patient.

In general a daily dose of approximately 0.001 to 100 mg kg preferably 0.001 to 30 mg kg in particular 0.001 to 10 mg kg in each case mg per kg of bodyweight is appropriate for administration to an adult weighing approximately 75 kg in order to obtain the desired results. The daily dose is preferably administered in a single dose or can be divided into several for example two three or four individual doses and may be for example but not limited to 0.1 mg 0.25 mg 0.5 mg 0.75 mg 1 mg 1.25 mg 2 mg 2.5 mg 5 mg 10 mg 20 mg 40 mg 50 mg 75 mg 100 mg 125 mg 150 mg 175 mg 200 mg etc. on a daily basis. In some cases depending on the individual response it may be necessary to deviate upwards or downwards from the given daily dose. Furthermore the compound may be formulated for immediate or modified release such as extended or controlled release.

The term patient includes animals preferably mammals and especially humans who use the instant active agents for the prohylaxis or treatment of a medical condition. Administering of the drug to the patient includes both self administration and administration to the patient by another person. The patient may be in need of treatment for an existing disease or medical condition or may desire prophylactic treatment to prevent or reduce the risk for developing said disease or medical condition or developing long term complications from a disease or medical condition.

The term therapeutically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a drug or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue a system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. A prophylactically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of the biological or medical event that is sought to be prevented in a tissue a system animal or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. It is understood that a specific daily dosage amount can simultaneously be both a therapeutically effective amount e.g. for treatment of hypertension and a prophylactically effective amount e.g. for prevention or reduction of risk of myocardial infarction or prevention and reduction of risk for complications related to hypertension.

In the methods of treatment of this invention the ROMK inhibitors may be administered via any suitable route of administration such as for example orally parenterally or rectally in dosage unit formulations containing conventional non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers adjuvants and vehicles. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections intravenous IV intramuscular intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. Oral formulations are preferred for treatment of chronic indications such as hypertension or chronic heart failure particularly solid oral dosage units such as pills tablets or capsules and more particularly tablets. IV dosing is preferred for acute treatment for example for the treatment of acute heart failure.

This invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprised of a compound of Formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier which is comprised of one or more excipients or additives. An excipient or additive is an inert substance used to formulate the active drug ingredient. For oral use the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention containing the active ingredient may be in forms such as pills tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oily suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules or syrups or elixirs. Compositions intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions. Tablets contain the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipients which are suitable for the manufacture of tablets. The excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium carbonate sodium carbonate lactose mannitol calcium phosphate or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents for example corn starch or alginic acid binding agents for example starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents for example magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc.

Pharmaceutical compositions may also contain other customary additives for example but not limited to wetting agents stabilizers emulsifiers dispersants preservatives sweeteners colorants flavorings aromatizers thickeners buffer substances solvents solubilizers agents for achieving a depot effect salts for altering the osmotic pressure coating agents or antioxidants.

Oral immediate release and time controlled release dosage forms may be employed as well as enterically coated oral dosage forms. Tablets may be uncoated or they may be coated by known techniques for aesthetic purposes to mask taste or for other reasons. Coatings can also be used to delay disintegration and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate may be employed.

Formulations for oral use may also be presented as hard gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with an inert solid diluent for example calcium carbonate calcium phosphate or kaolin or as soft gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredients is mixed with water or miscible solvents such as propylene glycol PEGs and ethanol or an oil medium for example peanut oil liquid paraffin or olive oil.

Aqueous suspensions contain the active material in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Oily suspensions may be formulated by suspending the active ingredient in a vegetable oil for example arachis oil olive oil sesame oil or coconut oil or in mineral oil such as liquid paraffin. The oily suspensions may contain a thickening agent for example beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents and flavoring agents may be added to provide a palatable oral preparation. These compositions may be preserved by the addition of an anti oxidant such as ascorbic acid. Syrups and elixirs may be formulated with sweetening agents for example glycerol propylene glycol sorbitol or sucrose.

The instant invention also encompasses a process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition comprising combining a compound of Formula I with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Also encompassed is the pharmaceutical composition which is made by combining a compound of Formula I with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Furthermore a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for inhibiting ROMK for causing diuresis and or natriuresis and or for treating preventing or reducing the risk for any of the medical conditions described herein in dosage amounts described herein.

The amount of active compound of Formula I and or its pharmaceutically acceptable salts in the pharmaceutical composition may be for example but not limited to from 0.1 to 200 mg particularly from 0.1 to 100 mg and more particularly from 0.1 to 50 mg per dose on a free acid free base weight basis but depending on the type of the pharmaceutical composition potency of the active ingredient and or the medical condition being treated it could also be lower or higher. Pharmaceutical compositions usually comprise 0.5 to 90 percent by weight of the active compound on a free acid free base weight basis.

The compounds of Formula I inhibit ROMK. On account of this property apart from use as pharmaceutically active compounds in human medicine and veterinary medicine they can also be employed as a scientific tool or as aid for biochemical investigations in which such an effect on ROMK is intended and also for diagnostic purposes for example in the in vitro diagnosis of cell samples or tissue samples. The compounds of Formula I can also be employed as intermediates for the preparation of other pharmaceutically active compounds.

One or more additional pharmacologically active agents may be administered in combination with a compound of Formula I. The additional active agent or agents is intended to mean a medicinal compound that is different from the compound of Formula I and which is a pharmaceutically active agent or agents that is active in the body including pro drugs for example esterified forms that convert to pharmaceutically active form after administration and also includes free acid free base and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said additional active agents when such forms are sold commercially or are otherwise chemically possible. Generally any suitable additional active agent or agents including but not limited to anti hypertensive agents additional diuretics anti atherosclerotic agents such as a lipid modifying compound anti diabetic agents and or anti obesity agents may be used in any combination with the compound of Formula I in a single dosage formulation a fixed dose drug combination or may be administered to the patient in one or more separate dosage formulations which allows for concurrent or sequential administration of the active agents co administration of the separate active agents . Examples of the one or more additional active agents which may be employed include but are not limited to thiazide like diuretics e.g. hydrochlorothiazide HCTZ or HCT angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors e.g alacepril benazepril captopril ceronapril cilazapril delapril enalapril enalaprilat fosinopril imidapril lisinopril moveltipril perindopril quinapril ramipril spirapril temocapril or trandolapril dual inhibitors of angiotensin converting enzyme ACE and neutral endopeptidase NEP such as omapatrilat sampatrilat and fasidotril angiotensin II receptor antagonists also known as angiotensin receptor blockers or ARBs which may be in free base free acid salt or pro drug form such as azilsartan e.g. azilsartan medoxomil potassium EDARBI candesartan e.g. candesartan cilexetil ATACAND eprosartan e.g. eprosartan mesylate TEVETAN irbesartan AVAPRO losartan e.g. losartan potassium COZAAR olmesartan e.g olmesartan medoximil BENICAR telmisartan MICARDIS valsartan DIOVAN and any of these drugs used in combination with a thiazide like diuretic such as hydrochlorothiazide e.g. HYZAAR DIOVANHCT ATACAND HCT etc. potassium sparing diuretics such as amiloride HCl spironolactone epleranone triamterene each with or without HCTZ carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as acetazolamide neutral endopeptidase inhibitors e.g. thiorphan and phosphoramidon aldosterone antagonists aldosterone synthase inhibitors renin inhibitors e.g. urea derivatives of di and tri peptides See U.S. Pat. No. 5 116 835 amino acids and derivatives U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 095 119 and 5 104 869 amino acid chains linked by non peptidic bonds U.S. Pat. No. 5 114 937 di and tri peptide derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 106 835 peptidyl amino diols U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 063 208 and 4 845 079 and peptidyl beta aminoacyl aminodiol carbamates U.S. Pat. No. 5 089 471 also a variety of other peptide analogs as disclosed in the following U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 071 837 5 064 965 5 063 207 5 036 054 5 036 053 5 034 512 and 4 894 437 and small molecule renin inhibitors including diol sulfonamides and sulfinyls U.S. Pat. No. 5 098 924 N morpholino derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 055 466 N heterocyclic alcohols U.S. Pat. No. 4 885 292 and pyrolimidazolones U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 451 also pepstatin derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 4 980 283 and fluoro and chloro derivatives of statone containing peptides U.S. Pat. No. 5 066 643 enalkrein RO 42 5892 A 65317 CP 80794 ES 1005 ES 8891 SQ 34017 aliskiren 2 S 4 S 5 S 7 S N 2 carbamoyl 2 methylpropyl 5 amino 4 hydroxy 2 7 diisopropyl 8 4 methoxy 3 3 methoxypropoxy phenyl octanamid hemifumarate SPP600 SPP630 and SPP635 endothelin receptor antagonists vasodilators e.g. nitroprusside calcium channel blockers e.g. amlodipine nifedipine verapamil diltiazem gallopamil niludipine nimodipine nicardipine bepridil nisoldipine potassium channel activators e.g. nicorandil pinacidil cromakalim minoxidil aprilkalim loprazolam sympatholitics beta adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. acebutolol atenolol betaxolol bisoprolol carvedilol metoprolol metoprolol tartate nadolol propranolol sotalol timolol alpha adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. doxazocin prazocin or alpha methyldopa central alpha adrenergic agonists peripheral vasodilators e.g. hydralazine nitrates or nitric oxide donating compounds eg isosorbide mononitrate lipid lowering agents e.g. HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as simvastatin and lovastatin which are marketed as ZOCOR and MEVACOR in lactone pro drug form and function as inhibitors after administration and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of dihydroxy open ring acid HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in LIPITOR rosuvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in CRESTOR pravastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in PRAVACHOL and fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in LESCOL a cholesterol absorption inhibitor such as ezetimibe ZETIA and ezetimibe in combination with any other lipid lowering agents such as the HMG CoA reductase inhibitors noted above and particularly with simvastatin VYTORIN or with atorvastatin calcium niacin in immediate release or controlled release forms and particularly niacin in combination with a DP antagonist such as laropiprant TREDAPTIVE and or with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor niacin in immediate release or controlled release forms and particularly niacin in combination with a DP antagonist such as laropiprant TREDAPTIVE and or with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor niacin receptor agonists such as acipimox and acifran as well as niacin receptor partial agonists metabolic altering agents including insulin sensitizing agents and related compounds for the treatment of diabetes such as biguanides e.g. metformin meglitinides e.g. repaglinide nateglinide sulfonylureas e.g. chlorpropamide glimepiride glipizide glyburide tolazamide tolbutamide thiazolidinediones also referred to as glitazones e.g. pioglitazone rosiglitazone alpha glucosidase inhibitors e.g. acarbose miglitol dipeptidyl peptidase inhibitors e.g. sitagliptin JANUVIA alogliptin vildagliptin saxagliptin linagliptin dutogliptin gemigliptin ergot alkaloids e.g. bromocriptine combination medications such as JANUMET sitagliptin with metformin and injectable diabetes medications such as exenatide and pramlintide acetate or with other drugs beneficial for the prevention or the treatment of the above mentioned diseases including but not limited to diazoxide and including the free acid free base and pharmaceutically acceptable salt forms pro drug forms including but not limited to esters and salts of pro drugs of the above medicinal agents where chemically possible. Trademark names of pharmaceutical drugs noted above are provided for exemplification of the marketed form of the active agent s such pharmaceutical drugs could be used in a separate dosage form for concurrent or sequential administration with a compound of Formula I or the active agent s therein could be used in a fixed dose drug combination including a compound of Formula I.

Several methods for preparing the compounds of this invention are described in the examples. Starting materials and intermediates are purchased made from known procedures or as otherwise illustrated. Some frequently applied routes to the compounds of Formula I are also described by the Schemes as follows. In some cases the order of carrying out the steps of reaction schemes may be varied to facilitate the reaction or to avoid unwanted reaction products. The Ar group shown in the below schemes can represent any of the mono or bi cyclic rings at the terminal end of Zas defined previously.

Two general methods were used for the synthesis of the compounds of Formula I. As shown In Scheme 1 N Boc piperazine 1 1 may be coupled to Z Halide Halide Cl Br or I under palladium catalysis conditions Buchwald et. al. 2000 2 8 1101 1104. . The Boc group of 1 2 was then removed to afford amine 1 3 which was reacted with electrophile 1 4 or 1 5 to deliver compounds of formula II 1 or II 2 respectively. Alternatively keto piperazine 1 6 was first reacted with epoxide 1 7 to furnish carboxamide 1 8 which was further coupled to Z Halide under palladium catalysis conditions to provide compounds of formula II 2 as shown in Scheme 2.

The independent synthesis of diastereomers and enantiomers or their chromatographic separations may be achieved as known in the art by appropriate modification of the methodology disclosed herein. Their absolute stereochemistry may be determined by x ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing an asymmetric center of known absolute stereochemistry.

The subject compounds may be prepared by modification of the procedures disclosed in the Examples as appropriate. Starting materials are commercially available or made by known procedures or as illustrated. The following examples are provided for the purpose of further illustration only and are not intended to be limitations on the disclosed invention.

Reactions sensitive to moisture or air were performed under nitrogen or argon using anhydrous solvents and reagents. The progress of reactions was determined by either analytical thin layer chromatography TLC usually performed with E. Merck precoated TLC plates silica gel 60E 254 layer thickness 0.25 mm or liquid chromatography mass spectrometry LC MS also referred to as LC in the experimental procedures herein . Typically the analytical LC MS system used consisted of a Waters ZQ platform with electrospray ionization in positive ion detection mode with an Agilent 1100 series HPLC with autosampler. The column was usually a Water Xterra MS C18 3.0 50 fexample 49 mm 5 m. The flow rate was 1 mL min and the injection volume was 10 L. UV detection was in the range 210 400 nm. The mobile phase consisted of solvent A water plus 0.06 TFA and solvent B acetonitrile plus 0.05 TFA with a gradient of 100 solvent A for 0.7 min changing to 100 solvent B over 3.75 min maintained for 1.1 min then reverting to 100 solvent A over 0.2 min.

Preparative HPLC purifications were usually performed using a mass spectrometry directed system. Usually they were performed on a Waters Chromatography Workstation configured with LC MS System Consisting of Waters ZQ single quad MS system with Electrospray Ionization Waters 2525 Gradient Pump Waters 2767 Injector Collector Waters 996 PDA Detetor the MS Conditions of 150 750 amu Positive Electrospray Collection Triggered by MS and a Waters Sunfire C 18 5 micron 30 mm id 100 mm column. The mobile phases consisted of mixtures of acetonitrile 10 100 in water containing 0.1 TFA. Flow rates were maintained at 50 mL min the injection volume was 1800 L and the UV detection range was 210 400 nm. Mobile phase gradients were optimized for the individual compounds.

Reactions performed using microwave irradiation were normally carried out using an Emrys Optimizer manufactured by Personal Chemistry or an Initiator manufactured by Biotage. Concentration of solutions was carried out on a rotary evaporator under reduced pressure. Flash chromatography was usually performed using a Biotage Flash Chromatography apparatus Dyax Corp. on silica gel 32 63 mM 60 pore size in pre packed cartridges of the size noted. H NMR spectra were acquired at 500 MHz spectrometers in CDClsolutions unless otherwise noted. Chemical shifts were reported in parts per million ppm . Tetramethylsilane TMS was used as internal reference in CDCl solutions and residual CHOH peak or TMS was used as internal reference in CDOD solutions. Coupling constants J were reported in hertz Hz . Chiral analytical chromatography was performed on one of Chiralpak AS Chiralpak AD Chiralcel OD Chiralcel IA or Chiralcel OJ columns 250 4.6 mm Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd. with noted percentage of either ethanol in hexane Et Hex or isopropanol in heptane IPA Hep as isocratic solvent systems. Chiral preparative chromatography was conducted on one of Chiralpak AS Chiralpak AD Chiralcel OD Ciralcel IA or Chiralcel OJ columns 20 250 mm Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd. with desired isocratic solvent systems identified on chiral analytical chromatography or by supercritical fluid chromatography SFC conditions.

In the Examples when a compound is obtained via chromatography e.g. MPLC HPLC silica gel it means that the solvent was removed generally under vacuum after the chromatography step to obtain the isolated product.

Abbreviations used herein include C O CH Ac acetic acid AcOH OC O CH OAc aqueous aq Cbz benzyloxycarbonyl N N diisopropylethylamine DIEA N N dimethylformamide DMF ethyl acetate EtOAc EA diethyl ether ether or EtO petroleum ether Pet Ether PE 2 propanol IPA methyl t butylether MTBE benzotriazol 1 yloxy tripyrrolidino phosphonium hexafluorophosphate PyBOP saturated aq sodium chloride solution brine trifluoroacetic acid TFA tetrahydrofuran THF t butyloxycarbonyl Boc or BOC Diethylaminosulfur trifluoride DAST dichloromethane DCM dimethylacetamide DMA DMAC dimethylsulfoxide DMSO 1 3 Bis diphenylphosphino propane DPPP acetic acid HOAc 3 chloroperoxybenzoic acid m CPBA methyl Me methanol MeOH N bromosuccinamide NBS N methylmorpholine N oxide NMO 1 hydroxybenzotriazole HOBt N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EDC diisopropyl azodicarboxylate DIAD lithium diisopropylamide LDA triethyl amine TEA di tert butydicarboxylate BOCO glycine methyl ester Gly OMe dimethyl sulfide DMS dichloroethane DCE N iodosuccinamide NIS triflic acid or trifluoromethanesulfonic acid TfOH N methyl morpholine NMP methanesulfonyl chloride MsCl 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DUB p toulenesulfonylmethyl isocyanide TosMIC dimethoxyethane DME tetramethyl ethylene diamine TMEDA 4 dimethylamino pyridine DMAP Pddba Tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 Xantphos 4 5 Bis diphenylphosphino 9 9 dimethylxanthene gram s g milligram s mg microliter s L milliliter s mL millimole mmol minute s min mins hour s h hr or hrs retention time R room temperature rt r.t. or RT round bottom RB thin layer chromatography TLC flash chromatography FC liquid chromatography mass spectrometry LCMS or LC MS supercritical fluid chromatography SFC Medium Pressure Liquid Chromatography MPLC High Pressure Liquid Chromatography HPLC mass spectrum ms or MS . Celite is the tradename for diatomaceous earth filter aid.

The following are representative procedures for the preparation of the compounds used in the following Examples or which can be substituted for the compounds used in the following Examples which may not be commercially available.

A three neck 5 L round bottomed flask equipped with a stir bar firestone valve thermocouple condenser and heating mantle was charged with tri t butyl phosphonium tetrafluoroborate 500 mg 1.72 mmol palladium II acetate 250 mg 1.1 mmol and 5 bromo 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 100 g 470 mmol . DMF 1.88 L was added to the flask and the mixture was degassed three times by alternating vacuum and nitrogen purge. Commercially available bromo 1 3 dioxolan 2 ylmethyl zinc solution 1.03 L 516 mmol was added via canula and the mixture was again degassed three times. The mixture was then heated at 85 C. for 5 hours checked by HPLC MS then stirred at 85 C. for 5 more hours. The mixture was then allowed to return to RT for overnight. 2 MethylTHF 2 L and brine were added and the mixture was stirred for 5 min. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted again with 2 methylTHF. The organic layers were combined washed three times with brine 4 L each dried over MgSO4 filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography 1.5 kg silica cartridge eluting with 0 20 ethyl acetate in DCM to afford the title compound. LC MS IE m z 221 M 1 .

5 1 3 Dioxolan 2 ylmethyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 61 g 280 mmol was combined with water 2.2 L in a 5 L round bottomed flask equipped with a Claisen adapter thermocouple stir bar and nitrogen bubbler. Aqueous HCl solution 2M 1.14 L 2.29 mol was added and the resulting mixture was heated at 40 C. for 8 h. Then the mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. The mixture was extracted three times with 2 L of ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were concentrated to give 1 oxo 1 3 dihydro 2 benzofuran 5 yl acetaldehyde. LC MS IE m z 177 M 1 .

To a flask containing a stir bar was added 6 bromo 2 chloroquinoline 0.90 g 3.7 mmol CuCN 0.50 g 5.6 mmol followed by addition of DMF 10 mL . The resulting mixture was then refluxed at 150 C. overnight. When the reaction appeared complete by LC analysis the reaction flask was taken out of the oil bath and cooled to room temperature. To the reaction mixture was then poured DCM 20 mL and a precipitate formed immediately which was filtered redissolved in DCM absorbed onto silica gel and purified by flash chromatography to provide the title product.

To a 25 mL flask was added a stir bar 2 chloroquinoline 6 carbonitrile 0.015 g 0.79 mmol Pddba 0.072 g 0.08 mmol Xantphos 0.09 g 0.16 mmol cesium carbonate 0.36 g 1.13 mmol and tert Butyl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate 0.31 g 1.6 mmol . The resulting mixture was degassed and purged with N 3 . To the flask was added 1 4 dioxane 10 mL . The reaction mixture was then refluxed at 100 C. overnight. Analysis of the reaction mixture by LC indicated that reaction had gone to completion. The solution was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting crude was dissolved in EtOAc and washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography 10 MeOH in DCM to provide the title product.

tert Butyl 4 6 cyanoquinolin 2 yl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate 0.15 g 0.79 mmol was treated with TFA 2 mL and stirred for 20 minutes. Analysis of the reaction mixture by LC indicated the reaction had gone to completion. The solution was concentrated in vacuo and crude was azetroped 3 with dichloroethane to furnish the title product. LC MS IE m z M 1 253.

A mixture of 6 bromo 7 methylquinolin 10 g 42.0 mmol prepared following 1988 31 2048. N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone 32 mL and CuCN 11 g 0.13 mol was stirred at 20 C. overnight and then at reflux temperature 202 C. for 7 h. The mixture was poured into water 250 mL and filtered and the solid was washed twice with water to furnish 7 Methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydroquinoline 6 carbonitrile.

A mixture of 7 Methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydroquinoline 6 carbonitrile 10 g 54 mmol and POCl 30 mL was stirred at 110 C. for 2 h and then at 20 C. overnight. The mixture was carefully poured into a mixture of water and ice 400 mL while being stirred vigorously. The product was collected by filtration and dried by co evaporation with MeCN Toluene to furnish the title product. LC MS IE m z M 1 203.

To a 25 mL flask was added a stir bar 2 Chloro 7 methylquinoline 6 carbonitrile 0.2 g 0.98 mmol Pddba 0.11 g 0.19 mmol Xantphos 0.090 g 0.090 mmol Cesium Carbonate 0.26 g 0.63 mmol and tert Butyl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate 0.29 g 1.4 mmol . The resulting mixture was degassed and purged with Nthree times. To the flask was added 1 4 dioxane 4 mL . The reaction mixture was then refluxed at 100 C. overnight. The solution was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting crude was dissolved in EtOAc and washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was then purified by silica gel column chromatography 10 MeOH in DCM to provide the title compound.

tert Butyl 4 6 cyano 7 methylquinolin 2 yl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate was treated with TFA 2 mL and stirred for 20 minutes. Analysis of the reaction mixture by LC indicated that reaction had gone to completion. The solution was concentrated in vacuo and crude was azetroped 3 with dichloroethane to furnish the title compound. LC MS IE m z M 1 267.

To a flask containing a stir bar was added 7 Bromo 3 chloroquinoline 1.0 g 4.1 mmol CuCN 0.55 g 6.2 mmol and DMF 25 mL . The mixture was then refluxed at 150 C. overnight. When the reaction was complete as evidenced by LC analysis the reaction flask was taken out of the oil bath and cooled to room temperature. To the reaction mixture was then poured DCM 20 mL and a precipitate formed immediately which was filtered off. The crude product was adsorbed onto silica gel and purified by silica gel column chromatography Hexanes DCM 1 1 to provide the title product.

To a 25 mL flask was added a stir bar 7 Chloroquinoline 3 carbonitrile 0.36 g 1.9 mmol Pddba 0.17 g 0.19 mmol Xantphos 0.22 g 0.38 mmol cesium carbonate 0.70 g 2.3 mmol and tert butyl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate 0.45 g 2.3 mmol . The resulting mixture was degassed and purged with N 3 . To the flask was added 1 4 dioxane 0.75 mL . The reaction mixture was then heated to 100 C. overnight. The solution was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting crude was dissolved in EtOAc and washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was then purified by silica gel column chromatography 5 MeOH in DCM to provide the title product.

tert Butyl 4 7 cyanoquinolin 3 yl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate 0.030 g 0.099 mmol was treated with TFA 2 mL and stirred for 20 minutes. Analysis of the reaction mixture by LC indicated that reaction had gone to completion. The solution was concentrated in vacuo and crude was azetroped with dichloroethane 3 8 mL to furnish the title product. LC MS IE m z M 1 253.

To a microwave tube charged with a stir bar was added 2 6 dibromonaphthalene 710 mg 2.5 mmol tert butyl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate 250 mg 1.2 mmol copper I iodide 48 mg 0.25 mmol N N dimethylcyclohexane 1 2 diamine 71 mg 0.50 mmol KPO 530 mg 2.5 mmol and dioxane 10 mL . The mixture was heated to 150 C. in a microwave reactor for 1 hour. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc adsorbed onto silica gel and purified by MPLC silica gel EtOAc Hexanes to afford the title compound. LC MS IE m z 407 M 1 .

To a flask charged with tert butyl 4 6 bromo 2 naphthyl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate 500 mg 1.2 mmol and a stir bar was added copper I cyanide 220 mg 2.5 mmol and DMF 20 mL . The mixture was heated to 135 C. for 12 hours under an atmosphere of N. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc washed with sat. NHOAc and brine dried over sodium sulfate concentrated and purified by silica gel chromatography. The resulting product was treated with 4N HCl in dioxane and removal of solvent furnished the title compound. LC MS IE m z 252 M 1 . The salt was further washed with aqueous sodium carbonate and back extracted with CHCl IPA 3 1 .

To a flask charged with 7 bromo 3 chloroisoquinoline 1.0 g 4.1 mmol and a stir bar was added copper I cyanide 550 mg 6.2 mmol and DMF 50 mL . The mixture was heated to 150 C. for 24 hours under an atmosphere of nitrogen. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc washed with sat. NHOAc and brine dried over sodium sulfate concentrated and purified by silica gel chromatography Hexanes DCM and the solvent removed to afford the title compound. LC MS IE m z 189 M 1 .

To a flask charged with 3 chloroisoquinoline 7 carbonitrile 250 mg 1.3 mmol and a stir bar was added tert butyl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate 400 mg 2.0 mmol Pd dba 120 mg 0.13 mmol Xantphos 150 mg 0.26 mmol cesium carbonate 650 mg 2.0 mmol and dioxane 20 mL . The mixture was purged three times with nitrogen and heated to 100 C. for 16 hours. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate adsorbed onto silica gel and purified by silica gel chromatography Hexanes EtOAc to provide tert butyl 4 7 cyanoisoquinolin 3 yl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate. LC MS IE m z 353 M 1 .

The product of Step B was further treated with 4N HCl in dioxane and removal of solvent furnished 3 2 oxopiperazin 1 yl isoquinoline 7 carbonitrile hydrochloride. The HCl salt was washed with aqueous sodium carbonate and back extracted with CHCl IPA 3 1 to furnish the title compound.

To a 20 mL microwave vial charged with 2 7 dibromonaphthalene 1.1 g 3.8 mmol tert butyl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate 0.50 g 2.5 mmol and a stir bar was added copper I iodide 95 mg 0.50 mmol N N dimethylcyclohexane 1 2 diamine 142 mg 1.0 mmol KPO 1100 mg 5.0 mmol and dioxane 15 mL . The mixture was purged three times with nitrogen and heated to 150 C. in a microwave reactor. The crude solution was diluted with EtOAc adsorbed onto silica gel and purified by silica gel chromatography Hex EtOAc . The solvent was removed to provide the title compound. LC MS IE m z 405 M 1 .

To a flask charged with tert Butyl 4 7 bromo 2 naphthyl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate 450 mg 1.1 mmol and a stir bar was added copper I cyanide 300 mg 3.3 mmol and DMF 10 mL . The mixture was heated to 140 C. for 16 hours. The reaction was diluted with DCM. The solids were filtered off. The filtrate was concentrated adsorbed onto silica gel and purified by silica gel chromatography Hex EtOAc 1 1 to afford tert butyl 4 7 bromo 2 naphthyl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate. LC MS IE m z 352 M 1 . The product was further treated with TFA to remove the Boc group. The resulting TFA salt was washed with aqueous sodium carbonate and back extracted with CHCl IPA 3 1 to furnish the title compound.

To a flask charged with 2 chloro 1 3 benzothiazole 5 carbonitrile prepared from 3 amino 4 chlorobenzonitrile following the procedure described in US Publication 2009 0197862 Example 267 146 mg 0.75 mmol and a stir bar was added tert butyl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate 225 mg 1.1 mmol Pd dba 69 mg 0.075 mmol Xantphos 87 mg 0.15 mmol cesium carbonate 370 mg 1.1 mmol and dioxane 10 mL . The mixture was purged three times with nitrogen and heated to 100 C. under Nfor 16 hours. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc adsorbed onto silica gel and purified by silica gel chromatography Hexanes EtOAc 1 1 to provide tert butyl 4 5 cyano 1 3 benzothiazol 2 yl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate 95 mg 35 yield . The carboxylate was further treated with TFA to remove the Boc group. After removal of TFA the residue was dissolved in aqueous sodium carbonate extracted with DCM dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to provide the free base of 2 2 oxopiperazin 1 yl 1 3 benzothiazole 5 carbonitrile. LC MS IE m z 259 M 1 .

To a flask containing a stir bar was added 3 bromo 7 chloroquinoline 1.0 g 4.1 mmol CuCN 0.55 g 6.2 mmol followed by addition of DMF 25 mL . The resulting mixture was then heated to 150 C. overnight. When the reaction was complete as evidenced by LC analyisis the reaction flask was taken out of the oil bath and cooled to RT. To the reaction mixture was then poured DCM 20 mL and a precipitate formed immediately which was filtered. The filtrated was washed with aq. NHCl dried over sodium sulfate and purified by flash chromatography. LC MS IE m z 189 M 1 .

To a 25 mL flask was added a stir bar 7 chloroquinoline 3 carbonitrile 0.15 g 0.79 mmol Pddba 0.072 g 0.08 mmol Xantphos 0.090 g 0.16 mmol cesium carbonate 0.36 g 1.13 mmol and tert butyl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate 0.31 g 1.6 mmol . The resulting mixture was degassed and purged with N 3 . To the flask was added 1 4 dioxane 10 mL . The resulting reaction mixture was then refluxed at 100 C. for overnight. Analysis of the reaction mixture by LC indicated that reaction had gone to completion. The solution was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting crude was dissolved in EtOAc and washed with brine then dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was then subjected for purification by silica gel column chromatography 10 MeOH in DCM to provide the title product.

tert Butyl 4 3 cyanoquinolin 7 yl 3 oxopiperazine 1 carboxylate was treated with TFA 2 mL for 20 minutes at RT. The TFA was removed under vacuum and the residue was dissolved in aqueous sodium carbonate extracted with DCM dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to deliver the free base of 7 2 oxopiperazin 1 yl quinoline 3 carbonitrile. LC MS IE m z 253 M 1 .

A mixture of 4 Methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 0.46 g 2.4 mmol and piperazin 2 one 0.20 g 2.0 mmol was heated to 145 C. in a microwave tube for 1 hour. The crude reaction was diluted with DCM adsorbed onto silica gel and purified by silica gel chromatography to provide the title product. LC MS IE m z 291 M 1 .

A mixture of 6 bromo 1 benzothiophene 2 carboxylic acid prepared in a similar manner to J. Med. Chem. 2007 50 20 4793 4807 240 mg 0.95 mmol and thionyl chloride was heated to 75 C. in 10 mL of DCE until the mixture becomes homogeneous about 1 hour. The reaction was then concentrated to dryness and redissolved in 10 mL of DCE and then excess 2N ammonia in MeOH was added about 10 mL and the reaction stirred at room temp for 30 minutes before excess solvent was removed. The crude amide was then redissolved in DCM the salts were filtered off and the filtrate concentrated. The crude amide was then taken up in phosphorus oxychloride 10 mL and heated at 80 C. for 2 hours and then cooled to RT. The reaction was partitioned between DCM and water the organic layer was then washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and purified via MPLC 0 10 EtOAc Hex to give 6 Bromo 1 benzothiophene 2 carbonitrile. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.06 d J 1.4 Hz 1H 7.88 s 1H 7.78 d J 8.6 Hz 1H 7.62 dd J 1.4 8.6 Hz 1H . LC MS IE m z 238 M 1 .

To a flask containing 7 Bromo 3 chloroisoquinoline 1.5 g 6.19 mmol was added NIS 1.4 g 6.9 mmol . The flask was placed in an ice bath and treated with TfOH 40 mL and stirred at RT overnight. The reaction mixture was carefully poured into ice and the aqueous layer was extracted with DCM. The combined extracts were washed with brine dried over NaSO and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography Hexanes DCM 1 1 to provide the title product.

To a 20 mL microwave tube was added a stir bar 7 bromo 3 chloro 8 methylisoquinoline 0.81 g 2.2 mmol Pddba 0.20 g 0.22 mmol and triphenylphosphine 0.12 g 0.44 mmol . The tube was capped degassed and then purged with Nand heated in a microwave reactor at 50 C. for 10 minutes. The cap was removed and the tube treated with copper I iodide 0.04 g 0.22 mmol capped degassed and purged with Nand heated again 50 C. for 10 minutes. The cap was once again opened and to the tube was added tetramethyltin 0.30 mL 2.4 mmol which was followed by capping degassing and purging of the reaction mixture with N and heating it to 120 C. for 30 minutes. To the mixture was added water and the aqueous layer was extracted with DCM. The combined extracts were washed with brine dried over NaSO and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography Hexanes DCM 1 1 to provide the title product. LC MS IE m z M 1 257.

To a flask containing a stir bar was added 7 Bromo 3 chloro 8 methylisoquinoline 0.63 g 2.4 mmol CuCN 0.33 g 3.7 mmol and DMF 10 mL . The mixture was then refluxed at 150 C. overnight. When the reaction was complete as evidenced by LC analysis the reaction flask was taken out of the oil bath and cooled to room temperature. To the mixture was then poured DCM 20 mL and a precipitate formed immediately which was filtered re dissolved in DCM adsorbed into silica gel and purified by silica gel column chromatography Hexanes DCM 1 1 to provide the title product. LC MS IE m z M 1 203.

To a flask charged with 6 Chlorothieno 2 3 b pyridine 500 mg 3.0 mmol and a stir bar was added NIS 800 mg 3.5 mmol and Triflic acid 5 mL . The mixture was monitored by TLC and allowed to stir at RT for 4 hours. The reaction was poured into ice neutralized with aqueous sodium carbonate extracted with DCM dried over sodium sulfate concentrated and purified by flash chromatography Hex EtOAc gradient to obtain the title product. LC MS IE m z 296 M 1 .

A mixture of 6 Chloro 2 iodothieno 2 3 b pyridine 80 mg 0.27 mmol and Copper I Cyanide 36 mg 0.41 mmol in DMF 3 mL was heated to 130 C. for 16 hrs. LC showed formation of the title product. The crude reaction was adsorbed onto silica gel and purified by flash chromatography to obtain the title product. LC MS IE m z 195 M 1 .

A solution of 6 Bromo 2 chloroquinoline 0.68 g 2.8 mmol in DMF was treated with sodium thiomethoxide 0.22 g 3.1 mmol . After 1 h at RT the LC MS indicated conversion. The solution was diluted with brine and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was removed dried filtered and concentrated. The crude product was used in the next step. LC MS IE m z 256 M 1 .

A stirred solution of 6 Bromo 2 methylsulfanyl quinoline in DCM was treated with m CPBA 1.07 g 6.2 mmol at RT. After 1 hour TLC and LC MS indicated conversion. The solvent was removed and the material was dissolved in minimal DCM and purifed via MPLC. The title compound eluted with 0 60 EtOAc and the solvent was removed to obtain the title product. LC MS IE m z 288 M 1 .

To a solution of 3 bromo 2 methyl benzoic acid 35 g 163 mmol in THF 200 mL was added Borane THF Complex 1.0 M 212 mL 212 mmol . The mixture was allowed to stir for 24 h. The reaction was then quenched with water. The THF was removed under reduced pressure. The resulting solid was dissolved in ethyl acetate 500 mL washed with 1N HCl sodium carbonate and brine. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to afford 3 bromo 2 methylphenyl methanol.

To a flask charged with 3 bromo 2 methylphenyl methanol 6.0 g 30 mmol was added a 1M TFA solution of Thallium Trifluoroacetate 16.2 g 29.8 mmol . The mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The solvent was removed under vacuum and the residue was pumped under high vacuum for 30 min to ensure complete removal of TFA. To the residue was then added palladium II chloride 529 mg 2.98 mmol lithium chloride 2.53 g 59.7 mmol magnesium oxide 2.41 g 59.7 mmol and MeOH 150 mL . The reaction was flushed with CO twice and kept under CO at RT. Analysis by LC showed a formation of product within 2 hours. To this solution was added ethyl acetate to precipitate the salts. The solution was filtered through a celite pad washed with EtOAc adsorbed onto silica and purified by silica gel chromatography to provide the title compound

5 Bromo 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 598 mg 4.47 mmol potassium vinyl trifluoroborate 507 mg 2.23 mmol PdCl dppf CHClAdduct 182 mg 0.223 mmol and TEA 0.622 mL 4.47 mmol were added to 10 mL ethanol in a 20 mL microwave tube. The tube was sealed and degassed then heated to 140 C. for 20 min. Analysis by LC MS showed product peak. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with brine twice dried and evaporated to dryness. The crude product was purified by MPLC chromatography using a 120 g Redi sep column and 0 80 EtOAC Hexane solvent system to yield the title product. LC MS M 1 175 at 2.42 retention time.

5 ethenyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 1.46 g 8.38 mmol was added to DCM 25 mL at 0 C. then m CPBA 2.89 g 16.8 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The reaction mixture was washed once each with saturated aqueous NaSO NaHCO and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and evaporated to dryness. The crude material was purified by MPLC chromatography through 120 g Redi sep column eluting with 0 80 EtOAc hexane solvent system to yield 4 methyl 5 oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 6 ppm 7.77 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.43 d J 8 Hz 1H 5.30 s 2H 4.12 s 1H 3.27 t J 4 Hz 1H 2.735 dd J 2.2 5.5 Hz 1H 2.43 s 3H .

Racemic 4 methyl 5 oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one was resolved on a ChiralPak AD H column 5 25 cm under SFC conditions on a Berger MGIII preparative SFC instrument. The racemate was diluted to 50 mg ml in 1 1 DCM MeOH. The separation was accomplished using 10 EtOH CO flow rate 200 ml min 100 bar 25 C. 500 ul Injections were spaced every 2.12 mins. The faster eluting 2R epoxide I 15B eluted at 5.2 min and the slower eluting 2S epoxide I 15A eluted at 5.6 min.

A mixture of 5 bromo 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 15.0 g 70.4 mmol allyl tributyl stannane 25.6 g 77.5 mmol LiCl 11.8 g 282 mmol and Pd PPh 1.2 g 1.0 mmol in 100 mL toluene was heated under Nat 90 100 C. overnight. After cooling to RT the mixture was diluted with 250 mL EtOAc and filtered. The filtrate was washed with water and brine dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated to dryness. The residue was purified via column DCM Pet Ether 1 5 to give the title compound.

To a solution of 5 prop 2 en 1 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 13.5 g 45.2 mmol in 200 mL DCM MeOH V V 1 1 was bubbled Oat 78 C. for 30 min and Nwas bubbled for another 15 min at 78 C. Then 20 mL of MeS were added and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight before concentrating to dryness. The residue was dissolved in MeOH 100 mL and then cooled to 0 C. NaBH 5.90 g 155 mmol was added in portions. The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h then quenched with citric acid aq. and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with NaHCO aq. and brine dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated to dryness. The residue was purified via column chromatography EtOAc Pet Ether 1 5 to give 5 2 hydroxyethyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one.

To a cooled 0 C. solution of 5 2 hydroxyethyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 9.00 g 50.6 mmol in 100 mL of TfOH was added NIS 12.5 g 55.6 mmol then the mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 hrs and then poured into ice water 500 mL . The solution was extracted three times with 500 mL of EtOAc and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated NaHCOand brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography EtOAc Pet Ether 1 5 to give the title compound.

To a flask charged with 5 2 hydroxyethyl 6 iodo 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 6.00 g 19.7 mmol and a stir bar was added Pd dba 452 mg 0.493 mmol PPh 1 g 4 mmol and NMP 50 mL . The mixture was purged with Nand heated to 50 C. for 10 min followed by addition of CuI 375 mg 1.97 mmol . After the mixture was heated for another 10 min Sn CH 5.30 g 29.6 mmol was added into the reaction and it was heated to 120 C. for 2 h. After cooling to RT the mixture was diluted with saturated NHCl 200 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 200 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water and brine dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by prep HPLC to give the title compound.

To a solution of 5 2 hydroxyethyl 6 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 1.20 g 6.25 mmol and TEA 2.5 g 25 mmol in DCM 100 mL was added MsCl 1.40 g 12.5 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature overnight then was washed with water and brine. The organic layer was dried and concentrated to dryness to obtain the title compound.

To a mixture of 2 6 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydro 2 benzofuran 5 yl ethyl methanesulfonate 2.00 g 7.41 mmol and TEA 5 mL in DCM 50 mL was added DBU 5 mL slowly at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at r.t. overnight and then was diluted with 50 mL of DCM washed with 2 N HCl three times and brine. The organic layer was dried and concentrated to dryness. The residue was purified by prep TLC to give 5 ethenyl 6 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one.

To a solution of 5 ethenyl 6 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 1.00 g 5.75 mmol in 50 mL of DCM was slowly added m CPBA 3.50 g 17.4 mmol in 50 mL of DCM at 0 C. The mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 2 days. The mixture was washed with aqueous NaSOuntil KI indicator paper didn t change color. The organic layer was washed with brine and then concentrated. The residue was purified via silica column to give product 6 methyl 5 oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one. LC MS IE m z M 1 191.

To a 20 mL microwave tube was added 5 bromo 2 tetralone 2.0 g 8.9 mmol and Palladium 0 Tetrakis 0.616 g 0.533 mmol zinc cyanide 1.0 g 8.9 mmol and DMF 8 mL . The tube was sealed degassed and microwaved at 80 C. for 1.0 hour. TLC showed no starting material left. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with ammonium hydroxide 2M 2 dried with sodium sulfate filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The product was purified by silica gel chromatography with isocrartic 30 ethyl acetate hexane to furnish the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl ppm 7.57 s 1H 7.55 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.28 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 3.67 s 2H 3.14 t J 7.0 Hz 2H 2.60 t J 7.0 Hz 2H .

A mixture of Methyl 2 bromo 5 nitrobenzoate 0.60 g 2.3 mmol allyl tri n butyltin 0.92 g 2.8 mmol lithium chloride 0.29 g 6.9 mmol and palladium tetrakis 0.13 g 0.12 mmol was heated to reflux for 16 hours in toluene. TLC showed formation of the desired product. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc washed with brine and separated. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography to obtain the title compound.

To a solution of Methyl 5 nitro 2 prop 2 en 1 yl benzoate 0.20 g 0.90 mmol in water 2 mL and THF 5 mL was added osmium tetroxide 0.57 mL 2.5 solution 0.045 mmol and NMO 0.16 g 1.4 mmol . The mixture was allowed to stir at RT for 16 hours and monitored by TLC. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc washed with NHCl and brine and concentrated. The residue was redissolved in MeOH and water. After cooling the solution to 0 C. an aqueous solution of sodium periodate 0.39 g 1.8 mmol was dropped into the reaction and allowed to stir for 2 hours. The reaction was diluted with water extracted with EtOAc dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The crude residue was purified by silica gel chromatography to provide Methyl 5 nitro 2 2 oxoethyl benzoate. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl ppm 9.48 S 1H 8.97 s 1H 8.39 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.46 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 4.31 s 2H 3.98 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared from Methyl 5 chloro 2 nitrobenzoate using essentially the same procedure as described for Intermediate 40. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl ppm 9.84 S 1H 7.98 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.61 s 1H 7.50 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 3.98 s 3H 3.94 s 2H .

The title compound was prepared from 1 Bromo 2 methoxy 4 nitrobenzene using essentially the same procedure as described for Intermediate 40. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl ppm 9.78 S 1H 7.89 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.78 s 1H 7.35 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 3.98 s 3H 3.81 s 2H .

The title compound was prepared from 1 Bromo 2 fluoro 4 using essentially the same procedure as described for Intermediate 40. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl ppm 9.86 S 1H 8.10 m 1H 8.01 m 1H 7.43 m 1H 3.97 s 2H .

The title compound was prepared from 4 Bromo 2 fluoro 1 nitrobenzene using essentially the same procedure as described for Intermediate 40. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.84 s 1H 8.09 8.08 m 1H 7.21 7.15 m 2H 3.87 s 2H 

The title compound was prepared from 1 Bromo 2 methyl 4 nitrobenzene using essentially the same procedure as described for Intermediate 40. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.76 s 1H 8.074 s 1H 7.32 7.30 m 2H 3.86 s 2H 2.61 s 3H 

To a 0 C. solution of tiphenylphosphine 1.9 g 7.2 mmol and iidazole 489 mg 7.18 mmol in DCM 20 ml was added iodine 1822 mg 7.18 mmol to form a solution. Small portions of 2 4 ntrophenyl ethanol 1.0 g 6.0 mmol was added to the suspension. TLC showed conversion to the desired product quickly. Hexane was added to the reaction to precipitate side products which were filtered off. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to obtain crude 1 2 iodoethyl 4 nitrobenzene which was purified by silica gel flash chromatography using Hexane and EtOAc system. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.22 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 7.40 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 3.41 t J 7.0 Hz 2H 3.32 t J 7.0 Hz 2H .

A 4 neck 22 L round bottom flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer thermocouple nitrogen bubbler and condenser was charged with 5 bromophthalide 650 g 3.0 mol allyltri n butyltin 1200 g 3.6 mol palladium tetrakis triphenylphosphine 100 g 0.089 mol lithium chloride 250 g 5.9 mol and toluene 8.8 L . The mixture was evacuated and flushed with nitrogen 3 times and then was stirred at 100 C. for 4 hours. After slowly cooling to ambient temperature the mixture was filtered and concentrated. The resulting solid was purified by silica gel column chromatography heptane ethyl acetate 0 40 to provide 5 allyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one.

5 allyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 1.53 g 8.78 mmol was dissolved in methanol 30 mL . THF was added to solubilize the starting material. The resulting mixture was cooled in a dry ice acetone bath 78 C. and ozone was bubbled into the reaction until the color of the mixture changed to orange. Nitrogen was bubbled into the reaction for one minute to remove the excess ozone. Sodium borohydride 0.65 g 2.9 mmol was added at 78 C. and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated part way and then taken up in ethyl acetate and water. The layers were separated and the organic layer was washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to provide the title compound.

To a solution of 5 2 hydroxyethyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 1.2 g 6.8 mmol in DCM at 0 C. was added carbon tetrabromide 2.3 g 6.8 mmol triphenylphosphine 1.8 g 6.8 mmol and imidazole 0.46 g 6.8 mmol . The mixture was allowed to stir at 0 C. for 5 minutes and then allowed to warm to RT and stir for 1.5 hours. The crude was concentrated and purified by silica gel chromatography 43 EtOAc with Hexanes to obtain 5 2 Bromoethyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one. LC MS IE m z 241 243 M 1 .

To a solution of methyl 2 chloro 3 nitrobenzoate 2.1 g 9.7 mmol in methanol 100 mL and THF 20 mL was added zinc powder 1.9 g 29 mmol ammonium formate 3.1 g 49 mmol and a few drops of acetic acid. The mixture was allowed to stir at RT for 18 hours. Most of the volatiles were removed under reduced pressure. The residue was redissolved in EtOAc 200 mL washed with brine concentrated and purified by MPLC to provide methyl 3 amino 2 chlorobenzoate.

To a solution of methyl 3 amino 2 chlorobenzoate 2.0 g 11 mmol in 48 HBr 10 mL and water 20 mL was added an aqueous solution of sodium nitrite 0.89 g 13 mmol at 0 C. The mixture was allowed to stir at 0 C. for 30 minutes before it was added into a suspension of copper I bromide 2.3 g 16 mmol in water 10 mL and 48 HBr 5 mL at 0 C. The reaction was allowed to warm to RT slowly and then heated to 60 C. for 5 minutes. The product was extracted with DCM 100 mL 2 . The extractions were combined dried over sodium sulfate adsorbed onto silica gel and purified by MPLC to provide methyl 3 bromo 2 chlorobenzoate. LC MS IE m z 251 M 1 

To a solution of methyl 3 bromo 2 chlorobenzoate 1.9 g 7.6 mmol in THF 30 mL was added Super Hydride 23 mL 23 mmol at 0 C. The reaction was allowed to stir for 16 hours. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc washed with brine dried over sodium sulfate and purified by MPLC to provide 3 bromo 2 chlorophenyl methanol. LC MS IE m z 205 M 17 

To a flask charged with 3 bromo 2 chlorophenyl methanol 1.1 g 4.8 mmol and a stir bar was added thallium trifluoroacetate 2.9 g 5.3 mmol and TFA 6 mL . The mixture was allowed to stir at RT for 16 hours. The volatiles were removed under reduced pressure. The residue was pumped under high vacuum for 15 minutes before palladium II chloride 0.085 g 0.48 mmol magnesium oxide 0.39 g 9.6 mmol lithium chloride 0.20 g 4.8 mmol and ethanol 30 mL were added. The mixture was stirred under an atmosphere of carbon mono oxide until the reaction turned black. The reaction was diluted with DCM. The suspension was filtered through a pad of celite to remove the solids. The filtrate was adsorbed onto silica gel and purified by MPLC to afford the title compound.

To a flask charged with 5 bromo 4 chloro 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 190 mg 0.77 mmol and a stir bar was added allyl tri n butyltin 0.36 mL 1.2 mmol PdCl dppf DCM complex lithium chloride 0.098 mg 2.3 mmol and toluene 5 mL . The flask was fitted with a condensor purged three times with nitrogen and heated to reflux for 6 hours. When LC showed complete reaction the crude material was purified by MPLC to provide 5 allyl 4 chloro 2 benzofuran 1 3H one. LC MS IE m z 209 M 1 

Ozone was bubbled through a solution of 5 allyl 4 chloro 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 80 mg 0.38 mmol in MeOH at 78 C. until it turned light blue. After excess ozone was removed by bubbling nitrogen through the solution dimethyl sulfide 0.57 mL 7.7 mmol was added into the reaction. The solution was allowed to warm to RT. The crude material was purified by MPLC to provide 4 chloro 1 oxo 1 3 dihydro 2 benzofuran 5 yl acetaldehyde. LC MS IE m z 211 M 1 .

To a flask charged with 5 Bromo 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 320 mg 1.41 mmol and a stir bar was added Allyl tri n butyltin 0.655 ml 2.11 mmol Pd PPh 244 mg 0.211 mmol lithium chloride 179 mg 4.23 mmol and toluene 15 mL . The reaction was purged with nitrogen 2 times then was heated at reflux for 4 hours. The product was purified by silica gel chromatography to give the title compound.

A solution of the above olefin 220 mg 1.2 mmol in MeOH 20 mL was cooled to 78 C. To this solution was bubbled ozone until the reaction turned blue. Nitrogen was bubbled through the reaction to drive off excess ozone followed by addition of DMS 0.870 mL 11.7 mmol . The reaction was allowed to warm up to RT. The crude product was purified by flash chromatography to afford 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydro 2 benzofuran 5 yl acetaldehyde. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl ppm 9.78 s 1H 7.75 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.34 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 5.27 s 2H 3.90 s 2H 2.23 s 3H .

To a 50 mL flask containing a stir bar were added 2 methoxy 4 bromobenzonitrile 0.30 g 1.4 mmol palladium tetrakis 82 mg 0.071 mmol allyltri n butyltin 0.88 mL 2.8 mmol and lithium chloride 0.120 g 2.83 mmol . The resulting mixture was then dissolved in anhydrous toluene 16 mL the flask was placed in an oil bath and heated at 130 C. LC as well as TLC hexanes EtOAc 1 0.3 indicated that reaction had gone to completion. The flask was taken out of the oil bath and cooled to room temperature. To the flask was poured EtOAc 40 mL and the mixture was transferred into a reparatory funnel and washed with aqueous NaCl. The organic phase was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness. It was then dissolved in DCM and absorbed into silica gel. The silica gel was then loaded onto a silica column for separation with the solvent systems of hexanes EtOAc 1 0.3 this gave 2 methyloxy 4 prop 2 en 1 ylbenzonitrile. LC MS IE m z 174 M 1 .

To a 25 mL flask containing a stir bar was added compound 2 methyloxy 4 prop 2 en 1 ylbenzonitrile 0.15 g 0.87 mmol and MeOH 8 mL . The flask was placed in a cold bath of 78 C. Ozone was bubbled through the flask for about 10 min. followed by addition of dimethyl sulfide 1.5 mL 24 mmol . The flask was taken out of the cold bath and stirred at room temperature for 1 h LC indicated completion of the reaction. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness to give 2 methyloxy 4 2 oxoethyl benzonitrile. LC MS IE m z 176 M 1 .

 3 Fluoro 4 hydroxy phenyl acetic acid 25 g 150 mmol was dissolved in methanol 100 mL and thionyl chloride 5 mL was added dropwise to the solution. The solution was heated to 85 C. for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool and evaporated to dryness in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and saturated NaHCO. The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and the filtrate was evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure to yield the crude title compound as an off white solid 25.3 g . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.07 d J 7.07 Hz 1H 7.00 6.97 m 2H 3.74 s 3H 3.73 s 2H .

The crude phenol methyl 3 fluoro 4 hydroxyphenyl acetate 25.3 g was dissolved in anhydrous dichloromethane 200 mL . 4 Dimethylaminopyridine 1.68 g was added followed by triethylamine 23.0 mL 165 mmol . The solution was then cooled to in a dry ice and acetone bath while under nitrogen. Trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride 27.9 mL 165 mmol was slowly added and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was then diluted with dichloromethane 200 mL and washed with water 2 100 mL . The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure and a cold water bath to yield the crude triflate. LC MS IE m z 316 M 1 .

The crude triflate 43.4 g was subsequently dissolved in anhydrous dimethylformamide 100 mL . Zinc cyanide 7.2 g 78 mmol was added and the solution was purged thoroughly with nitrogen. Tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 12 g 14 mmol was then added and the reaction mixture was heated to 80 C. for 4 h. After allowing cooling to ambient temperature and diluting with water 300 mL ethyl acetate 500 mL was added. The combined layers were filtered to remove any solids the filtrate transferred to a reparatory funnel and the layers separated. The aqueous layer was re extracted with ethyl acetate 1 100 mL the organic portions were combined and dried over magnesium sulfate. The dry organics were then filtered and evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure and excess dimethylformamide was removed by evaporation in vacuo at 65 C. for 1.5 h to yield the crude title compound 42 g . The crude product was purified through silica gel chromatography ethyl acetate hexanes 2 3 to yield the title nitrile. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.62 t J 6.1 Hz 1H 7.23 7.21 m 2H 3.76 s 3H 3.73 s 2H . LC MS IE m z 194 M 1 .

LiBH 1.94 mL 3.88 mmol 2 M in THF was added to a stirred solution of methyl 4 cyano 3 fluorophenyl acetate 0.50 g 2.59 mmol in THF 25 ml at 0 C. The resulting solution was stirred for 12 h. Water 10 ml was added and the resulting solution was extracted with dichloromethane 2 50 ml . The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by column chromatography eluting with EtOAc Hexanes 7 3 1 1 to give the product as colorless oil. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.60 dd J 7.4 J 7.1 Hz 1H 7.30 s 1H 7.18 dd J 7.3 J 9.1 Hz 1H 3.95 t J 6.2 Hz 2H 2.93 t J 6.3 Hz 2H .

To a stirred solution of 2 fluoro 4 2 hydroxyethyl benzonitrile 0.40 g 2.4 mmol in dry CHCl 20 mL at 0 C. was added Dess Martin periodinane 1.54 g 3.6 mmol in one portion. The mixture was stirred for 12 h at rt and quenched with a 1 1 mixture of saturated NaSO 10 mL and saturated NaHCO 10 mL . The resulting mixture was diluted with CHCl 70 mL and the layers were separated. The aqueous phase was extracted with CHCl 2 50 mL . The combined organic phases were washed with brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to give crude aldehyde as colorless oil. The residue was used in the next step without further purification. LC MS IE m z 164.1 M 1 .

Intermediates described above may be referred to by their number preceded by I . For example Intermediate 1 is shortened to I 1.

To a 25 mL pear shaped flask charged with 6 2 Oxopiperazin 1 yl naphthalene 2 carbonitrile hydrochloride I 5 30 mg 0.10 mmol and a stir bar was added 1 Oxo 1 3 dihydro 2 benzofuran 5 yl acetaldehyde I 1 28 mg 0.16 mmol sodium triacetocyborohydride 22 mg 0.10 mmol DCM and a few drops of acetic acid. The mixture was allowed to stir at RT for 16 hours. The title product was purified by mass directed reverse phase HPLC AcCN Water with 0.1 TFA . LC MS IE m z 412 M 1 .

A mixture of 6 2 Oxopiperazin 1 yl naphthalene 2 carbonitrile 33 mg 0.13 mmol and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 38 mg 0.20 mmol in EtOH 2 mL in a 5 mL microwave tube was heated to 148 C. for 1.5 hours. LC showed formation of the title product which was purified by mass directed reverse phase HPLC AcCN Water with 0.1 TFA . LC MS IE m z 442 M 1 .

A mixture of 6 2 Oxopiperazin 1 yl naphthalene 2 carbonitrile I 5 40 mg 0.16 mmol and 6 methyl 5 oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one I 16 30 mg 0.16 mmol of the fast eluting isomer in EtOH 1.5 mL was heated to 140 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness and dissolved in MeOH filtered and shot into Mass directed HPLC for purification to give the title product. LC MS IE m z 442 M 1 .

A mixture of 2 2 Oxopiperazin 1 yl quinoline 6 carbonitrile I 2 20 mg 0.079 mmol and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 30 mg 0.16 mmol in EtOH 2 mL was heated to 140 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness and dissolved in MeOH filtered and shot into Mass directed HPLC for purification to give the title product. LC MS IE m z 443 M 1 .

A mixture of 3 2 oxopiperazin 1 yl isoquinoline 7 carbonitrile I 6 20 mg 0.079 mmol and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 30 mg 0.16 mmol in EtOH 1 mL in a 5 mL microwave tube was heated to 145 C. for 1.5 hours. LC showed formation of title product which was purified by mass directed reverse phase HPLC AcCN Water with 0.1 TFA . LC MS IE m z 443 M 1 .

A mixture of 7 2 oxopiperazin 1 yl naphthalene 2 carbonitrile I 7 35 mg 0.14 mmol and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 40 mg 0.21 mmol in EtOH 2 mL in a 5 mL microwave tube was heated to 145 C. for 2 hours. LC showed formation of the title product which was purified by silica gel flash chromatography. LC MS IE m z 442 M 1 .

A mixture of 2 2 Oxopiperazin 1 yl 1 3 benzothiazole 5 carbonitrile I 8 25 mg 0.10 mmol and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 37 mg 0.19 mmol in EtOH 2 mL in a 5 mL microwave tube was heated to 145 C. for 1.5 hours. LC showed formation of the title product which was purified by silica gel flash chromatography. LC MS IE m z 449 M 1 .

A mixture of 4 2R 2 hydroxy 2 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydro 2 benzofuran 5 yl ethyl piperazin 2 one I 10 33 mg 0.11 mmol 6 chlorothieno 2 3 b pyridine 2 carbonitrile I 13 22 mg 0.11 mmol Pd dba 21 mg 0.023 mmol Xantphos 26 mg 0.045 mmol and CsCO 55 mg 0.17 mmol in dioxane 2 mL was sealed in a microwave tube and purged three times with nitrogen. It was heated to 120 C. for 20 minutes in a microwave reactor. LC showed formation of the title product which was purified by silica gel flash chromatography. LC MS IE m z 449 M 1 .

2 Chloro 1 3 benzothiazole 6 carbonitrile is commercially available or can be prepared as described in Example 268 of US Patent Publication No. US2009 019862.

A mixture of 4 2R 2 hydroxy 2 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydro 2 benzofuran 5 yl ethyl piperazin 2 one I 10 30 mg 0.10 mmol 2 chloro 1 3 benzothiazole 6 carbonitrile 20 mg 0.10 mmol Pd dba 19 mg 0.021 mmol Xantphos 24 mg 0.041 mmol and CsCO 50 mg 0.16 mmol in dioxane 2 mL was sealed in a microwave tube and purged three times with nitrogen. It was heated to 120 C. for 10 minutes in a microwave reactor. LC showed formation of the title product which was purified by silica gel flash chromatography. LC MS IE m z 449 M 1 .

A mixture of 7 2 oxopiperazin 1 yl quinoline 3 carbonitrile I 9 20 mg 0.079 mmol and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 30 mg 0.16 mmol in EtOH 1.5 mL in a 5 mL microwave tube was heated to 140 C. for 2 hours. LC showed formation of the title product which was purified by mass directed reverse phase HPLC AcCN Water with 0.1 TFA . LC MS IE m z 443 M 1 .

A mixture of 3 2 oxopiperazin 1 yl quinoline 7 carbonitrile I 4 17 mg 0.067 mmol and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 19 mg 0.10 mmol in EtOH 1.5 mL in a 5 mL microwave tube was heated to 140 C. for 1 hour. LC showed formation of the title product which was purified by mass directed reverse phase HPLC AcCN Water with 0.1 TFA . LC MS IE m z 443 M 1 .

A mixture of 7 Methyl 2 2 oxopiperazin 1 yl quinoline 6 carbonitrile I 3 125 mg 0.47 mmol and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 134 mg 0.70 mmol in EtOH 1.5 mL in a 5 mL microwave tube was heated to 140 C. for 20 minutes. LC showed formation of the desired product which was purified by mass directed reverse phase HPLC AcCN Water with 0.1 TFA . LC MS IE m z 457 M 1 .

A mixture of 4 2R 2 hydroxy 2 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydro 2 benzofuran 5 yl ethyl piperazin 2 one 26 mg 0.089 mmol 3 Chloro 8 methylisoquinoline 7 carbonitrile I 12 18 mg 0.089 mmol Pd dba 16 mg 0.017 mmol Xantphos 21 mg 0.036 mmol and CsCO 40 mg 0.12 mmol in dioxane 4 mL was sealed in a microwave tube and purged three times with nitrogen. It was heated to 100 C. for 10 minutes in a microwave reactor. LC showed formation of the desired product which was purified by silica gel flash chromatography. LC MS IE m z 457 M 1 .

A mixture of 4 2R 2 hydroxy 2 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydro 2 benzofuran 5 yl ethyl piperazin 2 one 50 mg 0.17 mmol 6 Bromo 1 benzothiophene 2 carbonitrile I 11 41 mg 0.17 mmol Pd dba 32 mg 0.034 mmol Xantphos 40 mg 0.069 mmol and CsCO 84 mg 0.26 mmol in dioxane 1 mL was sealed in a microwave tube and purged three times with nitrogen. It was heated to 120 C. for 20 minutes in a microwave reactor. LC showed formation of the desired product which was purified by silica gel flash chromatography. LC MS IE m z 448 M 1 .

A mixture of 4 2R 2 hydroxy 2 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydro 2 benzofuran 5 yl ethyl piperazin 2 one 66 mg 0.23 mmol 6 Bromo 2 methylsulfonyl quinoline I 14 65 mg 0.23 mmol Pd dba 42 mg 0.045 mmol Xantphos 53 mg 0.091 mmol and CsCO 110 mg 0.34 mmol in DMF 5 mL was sealed in a microwave tube and purged three times with nitrogen. It was heated to 120 C. for 10 minutes in a microwave reactor. LC showed formation of the product. The material was purified by silica gel flash chromatography followed by crystallization to give the title product. LC MS IE m z 496 M 1 .

The following Examples in Table 3 can be made from the intermediate starting materials also shown in the Table using the synthetic procedures described above.

The following Thallium Flux Assay was performed on the final product compounds in all the Examples. This assay makes use of the ability of thallium to permeate through open ROMK channels and increase the fluorescence of a dye previously loaded into the cells. Under control conditions cells loaded with dye and exposed to thallium containing medium display a time dependent increase in fluorescence the rate of which depends on number of functional channels. When cells are incubated in the presence of a channel inhibitor the increase in fluorescence is attenuated in a concentration dependent manner and ICvalues of inhibition by compounds can be accurately determined. This assay has been established with cell lines expressing either human or rat ROMK channels and operates in 384 well format.

HEK293 cells stably expressing hROMK hK1.1 were grown at 37 C. in a 10 COhumidified incubator in complete growth media Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium supplemented with non essential amino acids Penicillin Streptomycin Glutamine G418 and FBS. At 80 confluency aspirate the media from the flask and rinse with 10 mL Calcium Magnesium free PBS. Add 5 mL of 1 trypsin prepared in Ca Mg Free PBS to T 225 flask and return flask to 37 C. COincubator for 2 3 minutes. To dislodge the cell gently bang the side of the flask with your hand. Triturate the cells completely and then transfer the cells to 25 mL complete media. Centrifuge at 1 500 rpm for 6 min followed by resuspension in complete growth media and determine cell concentration. For typical re seeding 4E6 cells T 225 flask will attain 80 confluency in 4 days. Under ideal growth conditions and appropriate tissue culture practices this cell line is stable for 40 45 passages.

The ROMK channel functional thallium flux assay is performed in 384 wells using the FLIPR Tetra instrument. HEK hKir1.1 cells are seeded in Poly D Lysine microplates and kept in a 37 C. 10 COincubator overnight. On the day of the experiment the growth media is replaced with the FluxOR reagent loading buffer and incubated protected from light at ambient temperature 23 25 C. for 90 min. The loading buffer is replaced with assay buffer test compound followed by 30 min incubation at ambient temperature where the Thallium Potassium stimulant is added to the microplate.

The fluorescence intensity of wells containing 3 M of a standard control ROMK inhibitor of the present invention is used to define the ROMK sensitive component of thallium flux. Fluorescence in the presence of test compounds is normalized to control values to provide fluorescence change. ICvalues represent the concentration of compound that inhibits 50 of the ROMK thallium flux signal.

Normally a control compound is included to support that the assay is giving consistent results compared to previous measurements although the control is not required to obtain the results for the test compounds. The control can be any compound of Formula I of the present invention preferably with an ICpotency of less than 1 M in this assay. Alternatively the control could be another compound outside the scope of Formula I that has an ICpotency in this assay of less than 1 M.

Representative examples of data collected for compounds of the present invention using the Thallium Flux Assay are shown in Table 4 below. All of the final product compounds in Examples 1 15 were tested in the Thallium Flux Assay and had ICresults of 0.5 M or less.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain particular embodiments thereof numerous alternative embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the teachings described herein. Recitation or depiction of a specific compound in the claims i.e. a species without a specific stereoconfiguration designation or with such a designation for less than all chiral centers is intended to encompass the racemate racemic mixtures each individual enantiomer a diastereoisomeric mixture and each individual diastereomer of the compound where such forms are possible due to the presence of one or more asymmetric centers. All patents patent applications and publications cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

