---

title: Mobile device with desktop screen indicators
abstract: A mobile device includes a user interface that has a plurality of non-password-protected desktop screens and at least one password protected desktop screen. The mobile device includes a touch sensitive display device that accepts gestures used to navigate between the desktop screens. Applications may be installed to password protected desktop screens.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09087184&OS=09087184&RS=09087184
owner: Tyfone, INC.
number: 09087184
owner_city: Portland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120821
---
The present invention relates generally to mobile devices and more specifically to user interfaces in mobile devices.

Mobile devices with touch sensitive displays typically include a desktop screen that shows icons used to launch applications. Some prior art mobile devices include multiple desktop screens that can be navigated using gestures on the touch sensitive display. shows one such prior art mobile device displaying one desktop screen with two application icons. A user provides a left to right or right to left swipe gesture across the touch sensitive display to navigate from one desktop screen to the next. shows a prior art logical orientation of multiple desktop screens that is navigated using swipe gestures. When mobile device is displaying desktop screen a left to right swipe gesture navigates from desktop screen to desktop screen and mobile device displays desktop screen as a result. Likewise when mobile device is displaying desktop screen a right to left swipe gesture navigates from desktop screen to desktop screen and mobile device displays desktop screen as a result.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that show by way of illustration various embodiments of an invention. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. It is to be understood that the various embodiments of the invention although different are not necessarily mutually exclusive. For example a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with one embodiment may be implemented within other embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition it is to be understood that the location or arrangement of individual elements within each disclosed embodiment may be modified without departing from the scope of the invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims appropriately interpreted along with the full range of equivalents to which the claims are entitled. In the drawings like numerals refer to the same or similar functionality throughout the several views.

Mobile device may be any mobile device that includes multiple desktop screens navigable by gestures. Examples include but are not limited to mobile phones tablet computers personal digital assistants and the like.

Mobile device may detect multiple different types of gestures. For example mobile device may detect a first gesture used to navigate between non password protected desktop screens and may detect a second gesture used to navigate from a non password protected desktop screen to a password protected desktop screen. This is described in more detail below.

Mobile device is capable of displaying multiple desktop screens. Desktop screens on mobile device display content such as application icons widgets and the like. Application icons that display on desktop screens are used to launch applications. For example a user might launch a music player application by tapping on icon . Also for example the user might launch an email application by tapping on icon . Both application icons and are displayed on desktop screen .

In some embodiments mobile device displays desktop screen indicator to provide a visual indication of the desktop screen currently being displayed. Additional desktop screen indicator embodiments are described further below.

A user may navigate between desktop screens using gestures. For example a user may navigate between desktop screens that are logically oriented side by side by using a swipe gesture from left to right or from right to left such as gesture . Referring now to desktop screen is shown logically oriented with desktop screen to the left and desktop screen to the right. A user may navigate from desktop screen to desktop screen by entering a left to right swipe gesture . The user may also navigate from desktop screen to desktop screen by entering a right to left swipe gesture .

Desktop screens and are examples of non password protected desktop screens. The user may freely navigate between these desktops screens without any additional layers of authentication. When the user gestures to navigate between the non password protected desktop screens the non password protected screens display without any additional input from the user.

In addition to non password protected desktop screens mobile device includes at least one password protected desktop screen . A user may navigate from a non password protected desktop screen e.g. to a password protected screen e.g. by gesturing with gesture . When mobile device recognizes gesture while displaying a non password protected desktop screen the mobile device requires an additional layer of authentication prior to navigating to the password protected desktop screen. This is described further below.

Although gesture is shown as a vertical swipe gesture this is not a limitation of the present invention. For example gesture may be non vertical or may be something other than a single swipe. In some embodiments gesture requires multiple movements such as connecting imaginary dots in sequence on touch sensitive display device .

Desktop screens and are all desktop screens that display application icons and other content. For example applications may be launched using icons that are displayed on any of desktop screens and . Further a user may navigate between all of the desktop screens using gestures although further authentication may be required when navigating from a non password protected desktop screen to a password protected desktop screen.

In some embodiments applications may be launched from icons on desktop screens and may also be launched using other mechanisms provided by mobile device . For example an applications folder may be provided in a directory structure accessible via menus and the application folder may also display icons that allow applications to be launched. In some embodiments applications may only be launched from desktop screens. For example applications that are installed to password protected desktop screens may only be accessible from those desktop screens. This prevents unauthorized access to those applications.

In some embodiments password protected desktop screens display application icons that are grouped in categories. For example financial applications may be installed on one password protected desktop screen or one set of password protected desktop screens. Also for example applications that hold other sensitive documents or data may be installed on one password protected desktop screen or one set of password protected desktop screens. Example password protected desktop screens are described below as wallet desktop screens that control access to finance related applications but this is not a limitation of the present invention. Access to any type of application may be controlled through password protected desktop screens without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Desktop screens and the logic that interprets gestures are part of a user interface component within mobile device . The user interface component may include many other elements including for example menus feedback devices audio haptic etc. window managers file managers and the like. The user interface component is described in more detail below with reference to .

Note that the desktop screen indicator has changed to signify the location of the password protected mobile wallet desktop screen in the logical orientation shown in . After the user enters the password and it is validated then the navigation to the password protected mobile wallet desktop screen is allowed. An example mobile wallet desktop screen is shown in .

In some embodiments the password is validated using software within mobile device and in other embodiments the password is validated using hardware within or coupled to mobile device . For example the password may be routed to a smartcard secure element for validation. The smartcard secure element may be in any location including within mobile device on a card in an add on slot of mobile device or in communications with mobile device over a contactless interface. Cards in add on slots may or may not be removable. For example a memory card may be user accessible and removable or may be embedded deep within the mobile device to provide system memory and nonremovable. Smartcard secure elements and their various possible locations are described more fully below. In some embodiments passwords may be alphanumeric only and in other embodiments passwords may be numeric only and yet in others it may include special characters.

As used herein the terms password protected and non password protected refer to different levels of authentication required to access different desktop screens. These different levels of authentication may coexist with further levels of authentication in the mobile device. For example an unlock feature of mobile device may require a user to enter a password a gesture or the like. The user unlocks the mobile device by authenticating to the mobile device using the password or gesture required for the unlock feature. Once the mobile device is unlocked the non password protected desktop screens may be accessed without further authentication whereas the password protected desktop screens may require further authentication as described above. Accordingly the password protection used to lock the mobile device is different from the additional authentication used when navigating from a non password protected desktop screen to a password protected desktop screen.

The example of shows a password mechanism providing an additional level of authentication although this is not a limitation of the present invention. For example a user may be allowed to navigate to the password protected desktop screens when an additional hardware token is present e.g. microSD card USB dongle Bluetooth device NFC device . In these embodiments the token provides the additional level of authentication and a password may not be required. In other embodiments the additional level of authentication may be provided by bioinformation e.g. fingerprint face recognition iris scan etc . In still further embodiments a challenge question and response mechanism may be used to provide the additional level of authentication. Any authentication mechanism may be employed without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Although two applications are shown installed on password protected desktop screen in this is not a limitation of the present invention. Any number of applications may be installed to a password protected desktop screen including zero one or more than one.

In some embodiments applications launched from mobile wallet desktop screen do not require further authentication beyond the authentication necessary for the user to reach the mobile wallet desktop screen. This provides a level of convenience to a user that wishes to open multiple financial applications without entering a password for each one. The user can authenticate to the mobile wallet desktop screen once and then select which mobile wallet application to open or even open multiple mobile wallet applications without further authentication.

As shown in the mobile payment application may display information specific to an application provider e.g. branding information information specific to a user e.g. available credit information and mobile device specific information e.g. NFC antenna tap location information .

The device specific information may show any type of information. Examples related to NFC payments include showing a region on the mobile device to tap orientation of the mobile device when tapping whether to tap on the front or back of the mobile device. Further this information may be color coded or maybe dynamic content that changes shape color or text in response to user actions. For example the TAP HERE icon shown in may change size or color or may animate when a successful exchange of information over a contactless link e.g. NFC has occurred. In some embodiments the dynamic content could also be represented with audio or haptic feedback. In some embodiments the mobile device specific information may be maintained in a centralized database that is updated when new mobile device models become available.

In some embodiments authentication to one logical row of password protected desktop screens with provide authentication to all logical rows of password protected desktop screens. For example a user that has authenticated to password protected desktop screen as described above may be able to access password protected desktop screen with an additional gesture without additional authentication. In other embodiments each row of password protected desktop screens requires an additional level of authentication.

In some embodiments rows of desktop screens may be accessed in a circular manner as shown in . For example continuous gestures in one direction will repeatedly scroll through the rows of desktop screens. In other embodiments rows of desktop screens are navigated in a noncircular manner such that if a user has navigated to the bottom most row the only option is to navigate up and if the user has navigated to the top most row the only option is to navigate down.

Various embodiments of the present invention use different desktop screen indicators. In some embodiments the desktop screen indicators include multiple rows as shown at and in other embodiments the desktop screen indicators include a single row with additional icons to signify the current row or possible scroll directions. For example indicator includes a lock icon to signify that the current row is a row of password protected desktop screens. Also for example indicator includes a dollar sign icon to indicate that the current row is a row of mobile wallet desktop screens. In still further examples indicators and include icons to indicate possible scroll directions. In some embodiments multiple row indicators include additional icons. For example indicator may include a lock icon and or a dollar sign icon as well as up and down arrows to indicate scroll directions. At least one row of desktop screen indicators maybe displayed at any given time.

Processor may be any type of processor capable of executing instructions store in memory and capable of interfacing with the various components shown in . For example processor may be a microprocessor a digital signal processor an application specific processor or the like. In some embodiments processor is a component within a larger integrated circuit such as a system on chip SOC application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

Display controller provides an interface between processor and touch sensitive display device . In some embodiments display controller is integrated within processor and in other embodiments display controller is integrated within touch sensitive display device .

Touch sensitive display device is a display device that includes a touch sensitive surface sensor or set of sensors that accept input from a user. For example touch sensitive display device may detect when and where an object touches the screen and may also detect movement of an object across the screen. When touch sensitive display device detects input display controller and processor in association with user interface component determine whether a gesture is to be recognized.

Touch sensitive display device may be manufactured using any applicable display technologies including for example liquid crystal display LCD active matrix organic light emitting diode AMOLED and the like. Further touch sensitive display device may be manufactured using any application touch sensitive input technologies including for example capacitive and resistive touch screen technologies as well as other proximity sensor technologies.

Cellular radio may be any type of radio that can communication within a cellular network. Examples include but are not limited to radios that communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA and the like. Cellular radio may operate at any frequency or combination of frequencies without departing from the scope of the present invention. In some embodiments cellular radio is omitted.

Audio circuits provide an interface between processor and audio devices such as a speaker and microphone.

Secure element provides secure information storage. In some embodiments secure element is a smartcard compatible secure element commonly found in credit card applications and or security applications.

NFC radio is a radio that provides near field communications capability to mobile device . In some embodiments NFC radio operates at 13.56 megahertz although this is not a limitation of the present invention.

In some embodiments secure element and NFC radio are separate devices as shown in and in other embodiments secure element and NFC radio are combined into a single integrated circuit. In still further embodiments one or both of secure element and NFC radio are integrated into another semiconductor device such as processor .

Examples of smart card controllers that combine both secure element and NFC radio are the SmartMX controllers sold by NXP Semiconductors N.V. of Eindhoven The Netherlands. In some embodiments the secure element has an ISO IEC 7816 compatible interface that communicates with other components within mobile device e.g. processor although this is not a limitation of the present invention. Further in some embodiments the NFC radio has an ISO IEC 14443 contactless interface.

Mobile device may include many other circuits and services that are not specifically shown in . For example in some embodiments mobile device may include a global positioning system GPS radio a Bluetooth radio haptic feedback devices and the like. Any number and or type of circuits and services may be included within mobile device without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Memory may include any type of memory device. For example memory may include volatile memory such as static random access memory SRAM or nonvolatile memory such as FLASH memory. Memory is encoded with or has stored therein one or more software modules or sets of instructions that when accessed by processor result in processor performing various functions. In some embodiments the software modules stored in memory may include an operating system OS and applications . Applications may include any number or type of applications. Examples provided in include a telephone application a contacts application a music player application a mobile payment application Bank Credit Card a mobile banking application Bank Mobile Banking and an email application . Memory may also include any amount of space dedicated to data storage .

Operating system may be a mobile device operating system such as an operating system to control a mobile phone smartphone tablet computer laptop computer or the like. As shown in operating system includes user interface component and application installer component . Operating system may include many other components without departing from the scope of the present invention.

User interface component includes processor instructions that cause mobile device to display desktop screens recognize gestures provide navigation between desktop screens and enforce authentication rules when accessing password protected desktop screens. In addition user interface includes instructions that cause processor to display various desktop screen indicators see as a user navigates across desktop screens. User interface also includes instructions to display menus move icons and manage other portions of the display environment.

Application installer component installs applications to mobile device . In some embodiments application installer component determines whether to install applications to password protected desktop screens. For example in some embodiments applications that access secure element are installed to password protected desktop screens whereas applications that do not access secure element are installed to non password protected desktop screens.

Application installer component may use any criteria to determine the desktop screen to which an application will be installed. For example application installer component may determine the installation location based on mobile device services used by the application when running. This may be determined by inspecting which application programming interfaces APIs are access by the application. In other embodiments the application is provided with information that dictates the installation location. For example an application developer or certification authority may provide information with the application that dictates the application installation location.

Telephone application may be an application that controls a cell phone radio. Contacts application includes software that organizes contact information. Contacts application may communicate with telephone application to facilitate phone calls to contacts. Music player application may be a software application that plays music files that are stored in data store .

Mobile payment application may be a software application that provides access to one or more payment instruments such as credit cards debit cards and pre paid cards. In some embodiments mobile payment application communicates with smartcard secure element and or NFC radio within mobile device . For example mobile payment application may store and access payment identities in smartcard secure element and allow proximity payments using NFC radio .

Mobile banking application may be a software application that communicates with a banking service to allow banking functions such as balance inquiries funds transfers bill payment and the like. Mobile banking application may be a downloaded thick application or may be a thin application that uses internet browser functionality. Other application examples include applications that store an identity such as a passport or a building access identity.

Each of the above identified applications correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These applications sets of instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules and thus various subsets of these applications may be combined or otherwise re arranged in various embodiments. For example telephone application may be combined with contacts application . Furthermore memory may store additional applications e.g. video players camera applications etc. and data structures not described above.

It should be noted that device is presented as an example of a mobile device and that device may have more or fewer components than shown may combine two or more components or may have a different configuration or arrangement of components. For example mobile device may include many more components such as sensors optical touch proximity etc. or any other components suitable for use in a mobile device.

Memory represents a computer readable medium capable of storing instructions that when accessed by processor result in the processor performing as described herein. For example when processor accesses instructions within user interface application processor recognizes gestures and requires additional authentication when navigating from a non password protected desktop screen to a password protected desktop screen.

As shown in application includes pre assigned password protected desktop screen information. This information may specify whether the application is to be installed to a password protected desktop screen and if so which one. The pre assigned password protected desktop screen information may originate from any source. For example in some embodiments a certification authority may analyze applications and assign desktop screens to applications. Also for example in other embodiments an application developer may make password protected desktop screen assignments. When application is installed on mobile device the application is installed to the pre assigned password protected desktop screen as shown in .

As shown in application does not include pre assigned password protected desktop screen information. When application is installed on mobile device the application is analyzed and assigned to either a non password protected desktop screen or a password protected desktop screen. In some embodiments the functions of application analysis and installation location determination component are performed when processor executes instructions in application installer component . The application may be analyzed based on any criteria and installed accordingly. For example the application may be analyzed to determine which application programming interfaces API are accessed at runtime and the application will be installed to a password protected desktop screen on API usage.

In some embodiments SE and NFC radio reside in an add on slot on the circuit board and they may be removable or nonremovable. For example in some embodiments an add on slot may be provided on circuit board to accept SE and NFC radio . In some of these embodiments SE and NFC radio may be user accessible and removable and in other embodiments SE and NFC radio may be nonremovable even though they reside in an add on slot.

In some embodiments SE and NFC radio reside in an add on slot in the semiconductor chip and the semiconductor chip resides in an add on slot on the circuit board and both may be removable or nonremovable.

In some embodiments the device with the SE or the device with the SE and NFC may not be physically present in a add on slot. It may be coupled via any combination of electric magnetic and optical means such as Bluetooth NFC infrared.

Method begins at in which a user interface is displayed on a touch sensitive display device. The user interface includes a plurality of non password protected desktop screens and at least one password protected desktop screen. Examples of logical orientations of non password protected desktop screens and password protected screens are shown in and . The remaining portion of method is described with the desktop screens in as examples however method is equally applicable to any logical orientation of desktop screens.

At a gesture is detected at the touch sensitive display device. The gesture may be a gesture used to navigate between desktop screens such as gesture or gesture . At the gesture is analyzed to determine if it is used to navigate from a non password protected desktop screen to a password protected desktop screen. If not then the navigation to the non password protected desktop screen takes place without additional authentication at . If on the other hand the gesture is recognized as one that will navigate from a non password protected desktop screen to a password protected desktop screen method prompts for a password at . An example screenshot of a password prompt in accordance with is shown in .

At the password is verified. In some embodiments this includes accessing a secure element such as secure element . The password may be passed to secure element and secure element determines the validity of the password. In other embodiments the password is verified without accessing the secure elements. When the password is verified the user interface navigates to a password protected desktop screen at .

Method begins at in which an application is analyzed as it is being installed on a mobile device to determine which mobile device services are utilized by the application when running. In some embodiments the application is analyzed to determine which application programming interfaces API are accessed. In other embodiments the application is analyzed by interpreting information supplied with the application. For example application installation location information supplied with the application may be provided by a certification authority of an application developer.

At the application is installed to a password protected desktop screen of the mobile device based on the results of the analyzing that occurs at . For example in some embodiments if the application being installed accesses secure element APIs then the application is deemed to use services provided by the secure element and the application is installed to a password protected desktop screen. The password protected screen to which the application is installed is one of a plurality of desktop screens not all of which are password protected. For example the application may be installed to password protected desktop screen .

Although the present invention has been described in conjunction with certain embodiments it is to be understood that modifications and variations may be resorted to without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as those skilled in the art readily understand. Such modifications and variations are considered to be within the scope of the invention and the appended claims.

