---

title: Network assistance for device-to-device discovery
abstract: Embodiments of system and method configurations for device discovery and connection establishment in connection with use of device-to-device (D2D) and proximity-based services are generally described herein. In some examples, an evolved packet core (EPC) of a 3GPP Long Term Evolution or 3GPP Long Term Evolution-Advanced (LTE/LTE-A) network is arranged to assist D2D identification and discovery procedures at user equipment (UEs) connected to the LTE/LTE-A network. Various identification and discovery procedures may be implemented in connection with proximity detection and the establishment of communication times for the establishment of the D2D communication link, between the UEs. Accordingly, the EPC of the LTE/LTE-A network may assist the establishment of a device-to-device communication link between UEs on a wireless network employing a distinct wireless protocol (for example, a direct wireless network connection via a wireless local area network (WLAN) or wireless personal area network (WPAN)).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09036603&OS=09036603&RS=09036603
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09036603
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121218
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 679 627 filed on Aug. 3 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments pertain to operations and communications performed by communicating devices in wireless networks. Some embodiments relate to device to device D2D communications and authentication techniques between devices facilitated by a wireless network.

D2D wireless communication techniques may be used to perform peer to peer point to point P2P communications among mobile devices and networks in a variety of settings. D2D communications between mobile devices may be designed to complement the use of centralized communications from a wireless base station for example centralized station to mobile communications from an evolved NodeB eNodeB in a carrier network operating with a standard from a 3GPP Long Term Evolution Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE LTE A standards family or from an access point AP in a Wi Fi network operating with a standard from a IEEE 802.11 standards family.

D2D direct communications are limited to devices located within the communication range of the wireless protocol or network configuration being used. However a particular user may not be aware whether D2D communication capable devices or known users associated with D2D communication capable devices are within communication range or whether such devices or users are currently or are prospectively in proximity to the particular user. Existing discovery techniques used to locate and seek out nearby D2D capable devices generally involve the use of broadcasting and response schemes which utilize detailed processing responses and data exchanges to discover devices.

The following description and the drawings sufficiently illustrate specific embodiments to enable those skilled in the art to practice them. Other embodiments may incorporate structural logical electrical process and other changes. Portions and features of some embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. Embodiments set forth in the claims encompass all available equivalents of those claims.

Various techniques and configurations described herein provide for network awareness and discovery techniques for establishing D2D communication links among mobile devices. These discovery techniques may be used to facilitate location of various D2D capable devices within a network and authentication between devices. Upon discovery and authentication of the proximate D2D devices a D2D communication link between the proximate D2D devices may be established to facilitate the exchange of data over a wireless D2D communication link. The D2D communication link may be deployed in connection with various location or proximity based services and in connection with service management and resource offloading. The D2D communication link may occur over a different wireless network e.g. a Wi Fi network or may be a variant of LTE based direct device communication.

In some examples a user equipment UE in communication with a carrier network e.g. a cellular radio access network RAN may request UE discovery assistance from the evolved packet core EPC of the carrier network. Information obtained from the assistance may include information to assist the D2D connection discovery process along with discovery details of other UEs in proximity to the discovering UE. The EPC may also communicate authentication security and identification information and establish a time period to coordinate D2D discovery and connection operations.

In existing techniques used to establish D2D connections devices manually and often continually scan or broadcast connection availability via the wireless medium in order to locate nearby D2D capable devices. Such techniques often involve constant scanning and associated power usage. Further even upon discovery of a nearby D2D capable device identification and authentication issues may prevent establishment of a D2D connection. The techniques described herein enable a common discovery and identification mechanism through data communicated from the carrier network to connecting UEs to facilitate the D2D connection establishment process.

In an LTE LTE A network environment an EPC is aware which UEs are associated with a public land mobile network PLMN and a particular eNodeB or which UEs are operating in an idle mode. Likewise the EPC is also aware of tracking areas for UEs and whether a UE is in communication with a tracking area involving a plurality of different eNodeBs. The EPC may also maintain a location service to maintain an approximate location of the various UEs. Using the techniques described herein this tracking and location information of the UEs can be applied for use with assisting the discovery of D2D capable devices and the establishment of a D2D connection for direct communications. Further the techniques described herein may be deployed across the coverage area of the LTE LTE A network managed by the EPC extending discovery operations and establishment of D2D connections beyond a single wireless local area network WLAN access point.

Communications between the mobile device A and the mobile device B are illustrated as facilitated via the IP network through an infrastructure communication link . The infrastructure communication link is established as the mobile device A and the mobile device B subscribe to a common carrier network and conduct communication with a common eNodeB . However the infrastructure communication link may also be established with use of separate eNodeBs or carrier networks.

D2D communications between the mobile device A and the mobile device B are facilitated through a D2D communication link . The D2D communication link may utilize any number of WWAN WLAN or wireless personal area network WPAN protocols such as a WLAN Wi Fi direct network protocol operating in accordance with a standard from the IEEE 802.11 standards family or a WPAN Bluetooth protocol operating in accordance with a Bluetooth standard as defined by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group . The D2D communication link as shown may be configured for direct point to point connections between devices but may also be facilitated through indirect peer to peer and multi node connections.

Operations at the carrier network to establish the D2D communication link may be performed within systems of the carrier network for example within the EPC . The operations of the EPC may include assisting discovery of the mobile device B from the perspective of the mobile device A and assisting discovery of the mobile device A from the perspective of the mobile device B. For example if the mobile device A suspects or is otherwise informed that the mobile device B is in proximity e.g. is in communication range or otherwise wishes to attempt a connection to the mobile device B the mobile device A can request D2D discovery assistance from the EPC . As one example the EPC may perform operations to confirm with the mobile device B whether the device will allow the establishment of a D2D connection and exchange information to assist D2D discovery and connection operations. As another example the operator may also store these kinds of permissions in a database and check them to see if the user has permitted access by another user before actually inquiring about permission. A user may for example inform the network of these D2D permissions when it registers with the network . Thus operations to confirm whether the establishment of the D2D connection is allowed may include a combination of policies or user interaction to verify the establishment of the D2D connection or certain D2D connection types.

As illustrated in a series of location update messages A B may be provided from each of the mobile devices the mobile device A and the mobile device B . The location update messages A B may be incorporated with existing location services or location management data managed by the carrier managed network or incorporated into location data communicated to the EPC . Location information from the location update messages A B may be used by the carrier network for example to determine whether the mobile devices are in proximity to each other and are within range of establishing a D2D communication link . The location information from the location update messages A B may also be coordinated in connection with location services e.g. a location server of the EPC or another portion of the carrier based network that tracks an approximate or precise location of the UEs.

The location information from the location update messages A B may be used to detect and validate proximity of the pair of mobile devices within a communication range for establishing the D2D communication link . For example as the mobile device A suspects that the mobile device B is in proximity or otherwise decides to initiate a D2D connection to mobile device B the mobile device A requests device discovery assistance from the operator network e.g. EPC for the mobile device B. The request for device discovery assistance may be sent from the mobile device A through one or more UE location requests transmitted from the mobile device A to the operator network via the eNodeB .

In response to a UE location request such as the UE location request the carrier managed network may verify whether the mobile device B is discoverable e.g. allowing others to discover it or otherwise interested in establishing a D2D connection with the mobile device A. The verification may be performed by confirming D2D permissions in network level databases permissions can be established during UE registration or via earlier inquiries or it may include the transmission of a D2D connection request to the mobile device B and the receipt of a D2D connection response from the mobile device B. Operations such as user interface prompts or policy verifications may be performed at or on behalf of the mobile device B to obtain authorization to establish the D2D connection.

Once the carrier managed network verifies permission for mobile device A to connect directly with mobile device B the carrier based network may provide one or both of the UEs with information to assist with the D2D connection establishment. For example this may include device discovery information communicated to the mobile device A communicated in a UE location response received from via eNodeB . This device discovery information may also include parameters of establishing the connection such as a time period during which the discovery is valid.

During the time period in which the discovery is valid the UE that initiates the D2D communication link the discovering UE e.g. mobile device A may perform discovery operations to locate and establish a connection to the discovered UE assisted by the device discovery information obtained from the EPC . For example UEs identified by the EPC as located proximate to each other may be identified with a D2D communication protocol using standard network scanning procedures such as with Bluetooth device discovery or Wi Fi P2P find modes. In further examples the UE location request and the UE location response may be used to obtain information about communication parameters authentication information security information or other information used by a discovering device to locate and establish the connection to the discovered UE.

First the UE A and the UE B may perform intermittent location updates with the EPC operations A B . The location updates enable the EPC to be informed of the current location for each of the UE A and the UE B . In some examples information communicated in the location updates includes a position associated with a network coverage area a position associated with a broader geographic area of the UE or a specific determined geographical position. In other examples the location updates include information related to the portion of the network in communication with the UE. Other techniques may be used to determine whether the UEs are not in proximity. For example if the UE A is attached to a PLMN that is not co located with the PLMN that the UE B is attached to then the EPC can conclude that the UEs are not in proximity for D2D communications.

Next the EPC receives a notification that the UE A wants to communicate with the UE s listed in the message. This notification may occur via a direct request from the UE A transmitted within a UE discovery request message operation or may occur via a high level notification in the core network. This notification may indicate a one time only event or it may indicate to keep trying until some period of time lapses if a UE is not currently in proximity. The UE discovery request message may provide an indication to verify the location of one or more specific UEs groups of UEs or any D2D capable UEs. For example as illustrated in the discovery request is issued for multiple UEs UE B UE C UE D . The UE discovery request message may indicate whether the UE just wants to know if a specific UE or type of UE is in proximity or whether the UE wants to receive assistance from the carrier network in the direct discovery process for example to obtain identification and common discovery period information for establishing the direct D2D communication link .

The EPC checks if the UE A is in proximity of any of the UEs in the notification operation . Information obtained from the UE location updates operations A B may be used by the EPC for this determination. In other examples the network operator may base proximity on whether UEs are associated with the same eNodeB or in communication with particular eNodeBs or network subsystems for example.

In one scenario the EPC may check existing UE information databases to verify if UE A can connect with the UEs it requested. In another scenario a connection request and response exchange may be conducted between the EPC and any potential device e.g. the UE B indicated for connection in the notification. This may include transmission of a D2D connection request operation to the UE B requesting confirmation to attempt establishment of a D2D connection. The confirmation or denial to attempt establishment of a D2D connection may be indicated in a transmission of a D2D connection response operation returned to the EPC .

Having confirmed that the UE A and the UE B are in proximity and that the connection request to the UE B is confirmed the EPC transmits a UE discovery response operation to the discovering device the UE A . The EPC may also send the UE discovery response to UE B so both UEs are informed to engage in discovery operations at a specific time which device identifier to look for and like discovery information. Thus the UE discovery response may include mutual identifying information to enable the UE devices to find each other during a D2D discovery procedure. The UE discovery response may also include information related to a mutual or common discovery period to expedite the discovery process or otherwise coordinate discovery timing. In some examples the EPC may first wait for the UE B to confirm the D2D connection request operation before proceeding with sending the discovery information to the UE A in other examples a policy based determination may be made whether to confirm the D2D connection request on behalf of the UE B .

Using information obtained from the EPC the UE A and the UE B perform operations to establish the D2D communication link operation including D2D discovery and connection establishment. The timing of the operations to establish the D2D communication link may be provided in connection with a discovery period . As suggested above the EPC can coordinate the discovery timing and provide an indication of the discovery period to the UE A and the UE B in other examples the EPC may first try to negotiate with each of the UEs to establish a mutual agreement for the discovery period . The discovery and connection establishment timing may be indicated by a start time a start and finish time or other signaling.

In connection with operation the UEs attempt to discover each other and establish the D2D communication link during the proposed discovery period using the identification information provided by the EPC . A failure to establish the communication link may be communicated to the EPC and used to obtain additional information to retry establishment of the D2D communication link or connect to another UE.

The EPC monitors the locations of the UEs to determine when and if they move into proximity. The location of the UE A and the UE B may be determined in connection with location measurements such as GPS sensors proximity based on a common network attachment such as when the two UEs are connected to the network via the same or co located eNodeB or any of the other location services and techniques discussed herein. Location monitoring operations may be autonomous implemented by a network policy or implemented per request by the UE s .

When the EPC detects that the UE A and the UE B are in proximity the EPC provides the UEs with D2D connection requests. These connection requests include mutual identification information to locate and connect to each other during the D2D connection discovery and additional information such as a mutual common discovery period to expedite the discovery process . As shown this may include the use of a D2D connection request operation provided to the UE B followed by a D2D connection response operation provided from the UE B this may also include the use of a D2D connection request operation provided to the UE A with an accompanying D2D connection response operation .

During a discovery period period of time indicated to the UE A and to the UE B for example in the respective D2D connection requests the UEs attempt to discover each other and establish a D2D communication link operation . The discovery and connection establishment operations at the UEs utilize the mutual identification information authentication information and other information provided by the EPC for example in the respective D2D connection requests .

If no data connection facilitated by the EPC exists between the UEs then a request e.g. a D2D location request is handled by the EPC operation to trigger the operations for establishing a D2D communication link. If an existing data connection facilitated by the EPC exists between the UEs then the proximity of the connected UEs is detected operation in order to trigger the operations for establishing a D2D communication link.

The D2D device proximity may be determined by the EPC operation to validate the precise location of discoverable devices. Upon a determination that a pair of UEs are in proximity for D2D communications the EPC may issue a D2D connection request to the one or more proximate devices operation to obtain approval for establishment of the D2D connection s . The D2D connection request may be provided to the discovered device the device being requested in cases where no connection exists between the devices. The D2D connection request may be provided to both devices in a case where a connection exists between the devices.

The response to the D2D connection request is received at the EPC from the proximate device s operation . If this response is affirmative then the EPC will provide information to the proximate device s to facilitate discovery authentication and establishment of the D2D communication link between the proximate devices operation . This information may be communicated in one or more messages or in response to specific queries from the UEs.

The discovering UE may request a D2D connection link to be established with one or more determined UEs operation . The one or more determined UEs may include an identification of specific UEs e.g. devices correlated with specific users contacts or identifiers and addresses or an identification of any available UE satisfying a particular connection criterion. The discovering UE may receive a response message to the D2D connection request from the carrier network operation determined in response to connection request responses from various UEs or according to the parameters of the carrier network.

The response message from the carrier network indicating specific UEs available for connection may be followed by processing the connection information for the specific UEs operation . This connection information is usable to establish the D2D communication link to the specific UEs using a direct or P2P network connection. Other relevant information including an indication of a discovery or connection establishment period may be communicated in the response message.

The UEs may jointly or separately attempt to establish a D2D communication link to each other via the direct or P2P network connection initiated during the discovery period operation . The connection establishment utilizes at least in part the connection information provided in the response message from the carrier network. Upon a successful establishment of the network connection the D2D device may conduct D2D communications via the direct or indirect network connection to the connected devices operation .

Although the preceding examples of D2D connections were provided with specific reference to 3GPP LTE LTE A and Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 communications it will be understood that a variety of other WWAN WLAN and WPAN protocols and standards may be used in connection with the techniques described herein. These standards include but are not limited to standards from 3GPP e.g. LTE LTE A HSPA UMTS IEEE 802.11 e.g. 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 802.11ac 802.16 e.g. 802.16p or Bluetooth e.g. Bluetooth 4.0 or other standard defined by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group standards families. Bluetooth as used herein may refer to a short range digital communication protocol defined by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group the protocol including a short haul wireless protocol frequency hopping spread spectrum FHSS communication technique operating in the 2.4 GHz spectrum. Other communication standards capable of facilitating device to device machine to machine and P2P communications may be used in connection with the presently described techniques. Further although the preceding examples of the carrier network were provided with specific reference to a 3GPP LTE LTE A cellular RAN and an EPC it will be understood that other wide area network protocols and system configurations may be used in connection with the techniques described herein.

As described herein various methods or techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as flash memory CD DVD ROMs hard drives portable storage devices or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via an interconnect e.g. a link a bus etc. . The computer system may further include a video display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the video display unit input device and UI navigation device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker an output controller a power management controller and a network interface device which may include or operably communicate with one or more antennas transceivers or other wireless communications hardware and one or more sensors such as a GPS sensor compass location sensor accelerometer or other sensor.

The storage device includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi 3G and 4G LTE LTE A or WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Other applicable network configurations may be included within the scope of the presently described communication networks. Although examples were provided with reference to a local area wireless network configuration and a wide area Internet network connection it will be understood that communications may also be facilitated using any number of personal area networks LANs and WANs using any combination of wired or wireless transmission mediums.

The embodiments described above may be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. Embodiments may also be implemented as instructions stored on a computer readable storage device which may be read and executed by at least one processor to perform the operations described herein. A computer readable storage device may include any non transitory mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a computer readable storage device may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices and other storage devices and media.

It should be understood that the functional units or capabilities described in this specification may have been referred to or labeled as components or modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component or module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component or module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like. Components or modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component or module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component or module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the component or module and achieve the stated purpose for the component or module.

Indeed a component or module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components or modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components or modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Additional examples of the presently described method system and device embodiments include the following non limiting configurations. Each of the following non limiting examples may stand on its own or may be combined in any permutation or combination with any one or more of the other examples provided below or throughout the present disclosure.

Example 1 includes the subject matter embodied by a method performed by a device e.g. a user equipment UE for establishing a device to device wireless connection with network assistance comprising providing location information of the UE to an Evolved Packet Core EPC of a first wireless network the first wireless network being one of 3GPP Long Term Evolution or a 3GPP Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE LTE A wireless network the UE in communication with the EPC providing device to device connection information to the EPC for connection with a second UE to establish a device to device wireless connection between the UE and the second UE the second UE in communication with the EPC and performing discovery of the second UE using a device to device communication transmitted via a second wireless network based on a response from the EPC to establish the device to device wireless connection with the second UE.

In Example 2 the subject matter of Example 1 can optionally include conducting communications over the device to device wireless connection between the UE and the second UE.

In Example 3 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 2 can optionally include providing device to device connection information to the EPC by transmitting a request to establish the device to device wireless connection from the UE to the EPC.

In Example 4 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 3 can optionally include providing location information of the UE to the EPC being conducted at a predefined interval wherein the location information includes data associated with a geographic area of a known location of the UE.

In Example 5 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 4 can optionally include the device to device connection information including a location request indicating one or a plurality of UEs for which the UE requests to connect.

In Example 6 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 5 can optionally include the response from the EPC to establish the device to device wireless connection being provided from the EPC in response to the EPC verifying proximity of the UE to the second UE wherein proximity of the UE is determined at least in part by a connection of the UE and the second UE to a common evolved Node B eNodeB .

In Example 7 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 6 can optionally include the device to device communication being transmitted from the wireless device to the second wireless device to establish the direct device to device wireless connection the direct device to device wireless connection performing communications in accordance with a standard from a LTE LTE A standards family an IEEE 802.11 standards family an IEEE 802.16 standards family or a Bluetooth Special Interest Group standards family.

Example 8 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 7 to include the subject matter embodied by a wireless communication device such as a user equipment UE comprising a multi mode transceiver comprising circuitry arranged to perform wireless communications with an evolved NodeB eNB in a 3GPP Long Term Evolution or a 3GPP Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE LTE A network via a LTE LTE A network connection and with a second UE via a device to device connection the circuitry further arranged to facilitate the device to device connection for direct communications between the UE and a second UE by performing operations to transmit to an evolved packet core EPC in communication with the LTE LTE A network location data of the UE according to a predetermined timing transmit to the EPC a device to device connection request the device to device connection request including an identification of the second UE the second UE having an network connection established to the LTE LTE A network receive from the EPC a device to device connection response the device to device connection response including connection information for the second UE and timing information for performing discovery of the second UE and transmit to the second UE during a connection establishment period determined using the timing information one or more device to device communications to establish the device to device connection using the connection information for the second UE.

In Example 9 the subject matter of Example 8 can optionally include the circuitry further arranged to directly transmit and receive with the second UE device to device data via the device to device connection in response to successful discovery and authentication of the second UE during the connection establishment period.

In Example 10 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 8 10 can optionally include the location data of the UE being transmitted to the EPC at a predefined interval wherein the location data includes a determined geographical position of the UE.

In Example 11 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 8 10 can optionally include the device to device connection request transmitted to the EPC including an identification of a plurality of UEs for attempting a device to device connection the plurality of UEs including the second UE.

In Example 12 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 8 11 can optionally include a display screen wherein operations to facilitate the device to device communications between the UE and the second UE include providing one or more interactive displays on a user interface presented via the display screen to enable user control of establishment for the device to device connection.

In Example 13 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 8 12 can optionally include the multi mode transceiver being further arranged to perform the device to device communications via a wireless network distinct from the LTE LTE A network wherein the device to device communications are performed between the UE and the second UE in connection with a standard from a LTE LTE A standards family an IEEE 802.11 standards family an IEEE 802.16 standards family or a Bluetooth Special Interest Group standards family.

Example 14 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 14 to include the subject matter embodied by a method performed by a performed by a device e.g. a user equipment UE for facilitating a data flow via a direct device to device connection established between the UE and a second UE comprising receiving a request for establishing a device to device connection to the second UE the request including an identification of the second UE and an identification of a discovery period the request provided from an evolved packet core EPC of a 3GPP Long Term Evolution or 3GPP Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE LTE A network in response to detection of proximity of the UE to the second UE transmitting a response to the EPC to the request for establishing a device to device connection to the second UE and establishing the device to device connection to the second UE during the discovery period using the identification of the second UE wherein a data flow between the UE and the second UE via the device to device connection is established to replace a data flow between the UE and the second UE existing via the EPC.

In Example 15 the subject matter of Example 14 can optionally include a second request for establishing a device to device connection being transmitted to the second UE from the EPC the second request including an identification of the first UE wherein the first UE and the second UE perform operations for establishing the device to device connection in response to an affirmative response to the second request for establishing a device to device connection.

In Example 16 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 14 15 can optionally include the identification of the first UE including information used to discover and authenticate with the first UE from the second UE and wherein the identification of the second UE includes information used to discover and authenticate with the second UE from the first UE.

In Example 17 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 14 16 can optionally include the detection of proximity of the UE to the second UE being based on a connection of the UE and the second UE to a common evolved NodeB eNodeB in the LTE LTE A network.

In Example 18 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 14 17 can optionally include the detection of proximity of the UE to the second UE being based on locations of the UE and the second UE determined by the EPC in comparison to a maximum communication range of the device to device connection.

Example 19 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 18 to include the subject matter embodied by a evolved packet core EPC the EPC arranged to operate processing components of a 3GPP Long Term Evolution or a 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE LTE A wireless network the LTE LTE A wireless network arranged to establish LTE LTE A network communication links with a first user equipment UE and a second UE via one or more evolved NodeBs eNodeBs and the EPC including one or more components arranged to facilitate an establishment of a device to device communication link between the first UE and a second UE over a second wireless network by performing operations to determine an establishment of the LTE network communication link between the first UE and the second UE determine proximity between the first UE and the second UE and transmit identification information and a discovery timing via the LTE LTE A wireless network to the first UE and to the second UE for use in the establishment of the device to device communication link via the second wireless network.

In Example 20 the subject matter of Example 19 can optionally include determining proximity between the first UE and the second UE being performed based on location information of the first UE and the second UE communicated to the EPC.

In Example 21 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 19 20 can optionally include the establishment of the device to device communication link being commenced in response to a notification provided within the EPC or from a notification provided from the first UE.

In Example 22 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 19 21 can optionally include operations to determine an establishment of the device to device communication link between the first UE and the second UE being performed in response to receiving a device to device connection request from the first UE the device to device connection request from the first UE including an identification of the UE wherein operations to transmit identification information and a discovery timing via the LTE wireless network to the first UE and the second UE include issuing a second device to device connection request to the second UE from the EPC the second device to device connection request including the identification information and the discovery timing and the identification information including an identification of the first UE and in response to a confirmation to the second device to device connection request issuing a device to device connection response to the first UE.

In Example 23 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 19 22 can optionally include the identification information provided to the first UE including authentication information to authenticate with the second UE using device to device communications transmitted via the second wireless network and wherein the identification information provided to the second UE includes authentication information to authenticate with the first UE using device to device communications transmitted via the second wireless network.

In Example 24 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 19 23 can optionally include the device to device communications being performed between the wireless communication device and the second wireless communication device in the second wireless network in connection with use of a standard from a 3GPP Long Term Evolution or Long Term Evolution Advanced standards family an IEEE 802.11 standards family an IEEE 802.16 standards family or a Bluetooth Special Interest Group standards family.

The Abstract is provided to allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

