---

title: Control system for internal combustion engine
abstract: A control system for an internal combustion engine, which is capable of properly determining timing for restarting the engine in a stopped state when idle stop control of the engine is executed during a heating operation of an air conditioner, thereby making it possible to ensure marketability and fuel economy performance in a well-balanced manner. The control system executes the idle stop control of the engine during the heating operation of the air conditioner. The control system includes an ECU. The ECU sets a lower limit blowout temperature, calculates an estimated blowout temperature, and controls the engine such that the engine is restarted when the estimated blowout temperature has become not higher than the lower limit blowout temperature.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09163603&OS=09163603&RS=09163603
owner: HONDA MOTOR CO., LTD.
number: 09163603
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120703
---
The present invention relates to a control system for an internal combustion engine installed on a vehicle and more particularly to a control system for an internal combustion engine for executing idle stop control for restarting the engine after temporarily stopping the engine during stoppage of the vehicle.

Conventionally the present applicant has already proposed a control system disclosed in Japanese Patent Publication No. 4475437 as a control system for an internal combustion engine. This engine is installed on a hybrid vehicle as a motive power source. The vehicle is equipped with a motor generator as a motive power source an air conditioner and so forth. Further the control system executes operation control of the air conditioner idle stop control of the engine and so forth and is equipped with various sensors such as a humidity sensor and various switches such as an air conditioner switch.

In this control system the idle stop control is executed such that while the air conditioner is performing a cooling operation during stoppage of the vehicle the engine is stopped when predetermined stop conditions are satisfied and the engine is restarted when a time period elapsed after the stoppage of the engine has reached an engine stoppage time Ts. This engine stoppage time Ts is calculated by a method shown in FIGS. 2 and 3 in Japanese Patent. Publication No. 4475437. More specifically a temperature rise coefficient Kt is calculated according to the amount of air blown out from the air conditioner and a state of settings of the air conditioner switch for inside air circulation or outside air introduction and an allowable upper limit temperature Eu of an evaporator is calculated by searching a map according to a target blowout temperature.

Then a compartment temperature rise permitting time Tu is calculated as the reciprocal of a value obtained by multiplying a difference between the allowable upper limit temperature Eu and a temperature Es of the evaporator during stoppage of the engine by the temperature rise coefficient Kt. Then a fogging occurrence estimated time Tf is calculated based on a humidity or the like within a vehicle compartment during stoppage of the engine. When Tf

In the case of the control system disclosed in Japanese Patent Publication No. 4475437 a control method is employed in which the idle stop control is executed during the cooling operation of the air conditioner and hence there is a problem that the control method cannot be applied to idle stop control during a heating operation of the air conditioner. For example although in the control system disclosed in Japanese Patent Publication No. 4475437 the engine stoppage time Ts is calculated using e.g. the temperature of the evaporator the evaporator is used during the cooling and dehumidifying operations of the air conditioner but during the heating operation of the air conditioner the evaporator is held at rest. without being used. Therefore during the heating operation of the air conditioner when the engine stoppage time Ts is calculated using the temperature of the evaporator as a parameter as in the control system disclosed in Japanese Patent Publication No. 4475437 there is a fear that the calculated engine stoppage time Ts becomes improper. For example when a too long time period is obtained as a result of the calculation the temperature of the vehicle compartment is lowered to an unpleasant temperature before the restart of the engine after stoppage thereof. On the other hand when a too short time period is obtained as a result of the calculation the time period before the restart of the engine after stoppage thereof is made shorter than required which degrades fuel economy.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a control system for an internal combustion engine which is capable of properly determining timing for restarting the engine at rest when idle stop control of the engine is executed during a heating operation of an air conditioner thereby making it possible to ensure marketability and fuel economy performance in a well balanced manner.

To attain the above object the present invention provides a control system for an internal combustion engine that is installed on a vehicle as a motive power source and is connected as a motive power source to as heat supply device that supplies heat to an air conditioner of the vehicle the control system executing idle stop control for temporarily stopping the engine during stoppage of the vehicle and restarting the engine from the temporarily stopped state comprising lower limit blowout temperature setting means for setting a lower limit value of a blowout temperature that is a temperature of air blown out from the air conditioner into a compartment of the vehicle as a lower limit blowout temperature estimated blowout temperature calculating means for calculating an estimated value of the blowout temperature as an estimated blowout temperature and control means for causing the engine to be restarted when the estimated blowout temperature calculated when the engine is in the temporarily stopped state has become not higher than the lower limit blowout temperature.

With the configuration of this control system the lower limit value of the blowout temperature that is a temperature of air blown out from the air conditioner into the compartment of the vehicle is set as the lower limit blowout temperature and the estimated value of the blowout temperature is calculated as the estimated blowout temperature. This engine is connected as a motive power source to the heat supply device for supplying heat to the air conditioner of the vehicle and hence when the engine is temporarily stopped during stoppage of the vehicle the heat supply device as well is stopped so that the supply of heat to the air conditioner is stopped. This lowers the blowout temperature. On the other hand according to this control system for the engine the engine is controlled such that it is restarted when the estimated blowout temperature which is calculated when the engine is in the temporarily stopped state has become not higher than the lower limit blowout temperature so that even when the blowout temperature is lowered along with stoppage of the engine during the heating operation it is possible to restart the engine and raise the blowout temperature in timing in which the estimated blowout temperature has become not higher than the lower limit blowout temperature. Therefore by setting the lower limit blowout temperature e.g. to a lowest temperature that does not discomfort an occupant in the vehicle compartment during the heating operation of the air conditioner it is possible to determine restart timing from the stopped state of the engine such that degradation of fuel economy is minimized while holding the blowout temperature within a pleasant temperature range. This makes it possible to ensure marketability and fuel economy performance in a well balanced manner.

Preferably the air conditioner includes an electric fan and the control system further comprises air conditioner suction temperature detecting means for detecting a temperature of air sucked into the air conditioner as an air conditioner suction temperature and power parameter detecting means for detecting a power parameter indicative of electric power supplied to the electric fan the estimated blowout temperature calculating means comprising stop time blowout temperature calculating means for calculating the blowout temperature in timing in which the engine is temporarily stopped as a stop time blowout temperature temperature drop amount calculating means for calculating a temperature drop amount of the air blown out from the air conditioner after the timing in which the engine is temporarily stopped using the air conditioner suction temperature detected when the engine is in the temporarily stopped state and the power parameter detected when the engine is in the temporarily stopped state and subtraction means for calculating the estimated blowout temperature by subtracting the calculated temperature drop amount from the calculated stop time blowout temperature.

With the configuration of the preferred embodiment the temperature of air sucked into the air conditioner is detected as the air conditioner suction temperature and the power parameter indicative of electric power supplied to the electric fan is detected. Further the blowout temperature in timing in which the engine is temporarily stopped is calculated as the stop time blowout temperature and the temperature drop amount of the air blown out from the air conditioner after the timing in which the engine is temporarily stopped is calculated using the air conditioner suction temperature detected when the engine is in the temporarily stopped state and the power parameter detected when the engine is in the temporarily stopped state. In this case both of the air conditioner suction temperature and the power parameter have a very high correlation with the drop of the temperature of air blown out from the air conditioner after timing in which the engine is temporarily stopped so that by using such two values it is possible to calculate the temperature drop amount after the timing in which the engine is temporarily stopped with high calculation accuracy whereby it is possible to enhance the calculation accuracy of the estimated blowout temperature. As a consequence it is possible to more properly determine the restart timing from the stopped state of the engine thereby making it possible to ensure marketability and fuel economy performance in a better balanced manner Note that throughout the specification the term detect used in the following phrases detecting the air conditioner suction. temperature and detecting the power parameter is intended to mean not only directly detecting the values of the temperature and the parameter e.g. by sensors but also calculating or estimating the values based. on other parameters .

Preferably the control system further comprises operating environment parameter detecting means for detecting an operating environment parameter indicative of an operating environment of the air conditioner and the lower limit blowout temperature setting means sets the lower limit blowout temperature based on the operating environment parameter detected in the timing in which the engine is temporarily stopped.

With the configuration of the preferred embodiment the lower limit blowout temperature is set based on the operating environment parameter detected in the timing in which the engine is temporarily stopped. In this case since the operating environment parameter represents the operating environment of the air conditioner the detection value of the operating environment parameter detected in the timing in which the engine is temporarily stopped properly represents the operating environment of the air conditioner in the timing in which the engine is temporarily stopped. Therefore by setting the lower limit blowout temperature based on such an operating environment parameter it is possible to properly set the lower limit blowout temperature while causing the operating environment of the air conditioner in the timing in which the engine is temporarily stopped to be reflected thereon thereby making it possible to more properly determine the restart timing from the stopped state of the engine. As a consequence it is possible to ensure marketability and fuel economy performance in a better balanced manner Note that throughout the specification the term detect used in the phrase detecting the operating environment parameter is intended to mean not only directly detecting the operating environment parameter e.g. by a sensor but also calculating or estimating the value of the parameter based on another parameter .

The above and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Hereafter a control system for an internal combustion engine according to an embodiment of the invention will be described with reference to drawings. As will be described hereinafter the control system according to the present embodiment carries out various control processes for controlling the internal combustion engine shown in and a process for controlling the operation of an air conditioner appearing in and includes an ECU see .

The internal combustion engine hereinafter referred to as the engine is a multi cylinder engine powered by gasoline and installed on a vehicle not shown as a motive power source and includes fuel injection valves only one of which is shown in and spark plugs only one of which is shown in provided for respective cylinders a starter and so forth.

Each fuel injection valve is mounted through the cylinder head not shown such that fuel is directly injected into a combustion chamber. The fuel injection valve is electrically connected to the ECU and a valve opening time period and a valve opening timing thereof are controlled by the ECU . That is fuel injection control is executed.

Further each spark plug as well is electrically connected to the ECU and a state of spark discharge is controlled by the ECU such that a mixture in the combustion chamber is burned in timing corresponding to ignition timing. That is ignition timing control is executed. Furthermore the starter as well is electrically connected to the ECU and is controlled by the ECU at the start of the engine so as to drive a crankshaft for rotation.

On the other hand the air conditioner is mounted on the vehicle. The air conditioner is for cooling dehumidifying and heating a vehicle compartment R and is provided with a refrigeration circuit for performing a cooling or dehumidifying operation. This refrigeration circuit is formed by serially connecting a compressor a condenser a receiver an expansion valve and an evaporator by refrigerant piping such that they form a closed circuit.

The compressor is connected to the crankshaft of the engine via an electromagnetic clutch a pulley a belt and a pulley . In a state having the electromagnetic clutch connected thereto the compressor is driven by the crankshaft whereby refrigerant is compressed and sent to the condenser as high temperature high pressure refrigerant via the refrigerant piping . The electromagnetic clutch is electrically connected to the ECU and the engaged disengaged state thereof is controlled by the ECU .

The high temperature high pressure refrigerant sent from the compressor is cooled and liquefied. by the condenser and then is sent to the receiver via the refrigerant piping for being temporarily stored therein. Next the refrigerant flows out from the receiver and after having moisture removed therefrom by a dryer not shown is sent to the expansion valve . Then the refrigerant is expanded by the expansion valve in an atomized state and is sent to the evaporator via the refrigerant piping . The evaporator is provided within an air conditioner casing communicating with the vehicle compartment R. The temperature of the refrigerant in the evaporator is raised by heat exchange with air within the air conditioner casing and the refrigerant is vaporized. The vaporized refrigerant is returned to the compressor via the refrigerant piping .

A heater core is disposed in the air conditioner casing at a location downstream of the evaporator . The heater core forms a cooling circuit of the engine together with a water pump and a circulation path . During operation of the engine the heater core is supplied with high temperature engine coolant having cooled the engine via the circulation path by the water pump whereby the temperature of the heater core is raised. The water pump is connected to the crankshaft via a pulley a belt and a pulley and is always driven by the crankshaft during operation of the engine .

Further an air mix door is disposed within the air conditioner casing at a location immediately upstream of the heater core . The air mix door is pivotally movable. The degree of opening of the air mix door is changed by an actuator not shown whereby a ratio between the amount of air cooled by the evaporator and the amount of air heated by the heater core is changed to adjust the temperature of air blown out into the vehicle compartment R.

On the other hand a pivotally movable intake door is disposed at the inlet of the air conditioner casino . This intake door is for switching between inside air circulation for circulating air within the vehicle compartment R within the same and outside air introduction for introducing outside air into the vehicle compartment R. The switching is performed using a switching lever not shown provided for the driver s seat.

Further an electric fan is disposed at the inlet of the air conditioner casing . This electric fan is electrically connected to the ECU and the operating state thereof is controlled by the ECU according to the operated. state of an air conditioner switch described hereinafter. During operation of the electric fan the air within the air conditioner casing is blown out from blowout ports to into the vehicle compartment R. At this time during the cooling or dehumidifying operation of the air conditioner air is blown out in a state cooled and dried by heat exchange with the evaporator to thereby cool and dehumidify the vehicle compartment R. Further during heating operation of the air conditioner air is blown out in a state heated by the heater core to thereby heat the vehicle compartment R.

Furthermore the blowout ports to are provided with pivotally movable doors to for opening and closing the blowout ports to respectively. The door to are opened and closed using a blowout switch not shown provided for the driver s seat.

On the other hand as shown in connected to the ECU are a crank angle sensor a vehicle speed sensor an accelerator pedal opening sensor a shift position sensor a current voltage sensor a compartment temperature sensor an outside air temperature sensor a solar radiation sensor the air conditioner switch an ignition switch and a brake switch .

The crank angle sensor delivers a CRK signal which is a pulse signal to the ECU along with rotation of the crankshaft whenever the crankshaft rotates through a predetermined angle e.g. 2 . The ECU calculates a rotational speed NE of the engine hereafter referred to as the engine speed NE based on the CRK signal. The vehicle speed sensor is attached to an axle not shown of the vehicle and detects a traveling speed VP of the vehicle hereafter referred to as the vehicle speed VP to deliver a signal indicative of the detected vehicle speed VP to the ECU .

The accelerator pedal opening sensor detects a stepped on amount AP of an accelerator pedal not shown hereinafter referred to as the accelerator pedal opening AP and delivers a signal indicative of the detected accelerator pedal opening AP to the ECU . The shift position sensor detects one of shift positions L D N R and P of an automatic transmission not shown and delivers a signal indicative of the detected shift position to the ECU .

The current voltage sensor detects values of current and voltage input to and output from a battery not shown and delivers signals indicative of the detected current and voltage values to the ECU . The ECU calculates the amount of electric power accumulated in the battery i.e. a remaining charge SOC of the battery and the like based on the detection signals from the current voltage sensor . Note that in the present embodiment the current voltage sensor corresponds to power parameter detecting means.

The compartment temperature sensor detects a temperature TR in the vehicle compartment R hereafter referred to as the compartment temperature TR and delivers a signal indicative of the detected compartment temperature TR to the ECU . Note that in the present embodiment the compartment temperature sensor corresponds to air conditioner suction temperature detecting means and operating environment parameter detecting means and the compartment temperature TR corresponds to an operating environment parameter.

The outside air temperature sensor detects a temperature TAM of air outside the vehicle hereafter referred to as the outside air temperature TAM and delivers a signal indicative of the detected outside air temperature TAM to the ECU . Note that in the present embodiment the outside air temperature sensor corresponds to the air conditioner suction temperature detecting means and the operating environment parameter detecting means and the outside air temperature TAM corresponds to the operating environment parameter.

The solar radiation sensor detects an amount GSOL of solar radiation hereafter referred to as the solar radiation amount GSOL received by window class and delivers a signal indicative of the detected solar radiation amount GSOL to the ECU . Note that in the present embodiment the solar radiation sensor corresponds to the air conditioner suction temperature detecting means and the operating environment parameter detecting means and the solar radiation amount GSOL corresponds to the operating environment parameter.

The air conditioner switch detects an operated state of the air conditioner by the user such as a set temperature TSET of the air conditioner and delivers a signal indicative of the detected operated state of the air conditioner to the ECU . Note that in the present embodiment the air conditioner switch corresponds to the operating environment parameter detecting means and the set temperature TSET corresponds to the operating environment parameter.

The ignition switch is switched to one of an off position an on position and a start position by operation of an ignition key not shown and delivers a signal indicative of the one of the above positions to the ECU . The brake switch is provided in a brake pedal mechanism not shown. When a brake pedal not shown is stepped on by an amount not smaller than a predetermined amount the brake switch delivers an on signal to the ECU and otherwise it delivers an off signal to the ECU .

The ECU is implemented by a microcomputer comprising a CPU a RAM a ROM and an I O interface none of which are specifically shown . The ECU determines the operating states of the engine and the air conditioner based on the detection signals from the above described sensors to and the signals from switches to and executes the processes for controlling the operations of the engine and the air conditioner .

Note that in the present embodiment the ECU corresponds to lower limit blowout temperature setting means estimated blowout temperature calculating means control means the air conditioner suction temperature detecting means the power parameter detecting means stop time blowout temperature calculating means temperature drop amount calculating means subtraction means and the operating environment parameter detecting means.

Next an idle stop control process executed by the ECU will be described with reference to . As will be described hereinafter the idle stop control process is for restarting the engine after stopping the same during stoppage of the vehicle and is executed at a predetermined control period T e.g. 10 msec in the present embodiment .

As shown in first in a step shown as S in abbreviated form in the following steps are also shown in abbreviated form a stop determination process is carried out. This stop determination process is for determining whether or not conditions for executing a stop control process for stopping the engine during stoppage of the vehicle are satisfied. Specifically the stop determination process is executed as shown in .

That is as shown in in steps to it is determined whether or not the following conditions c to c are satisfied respectively.

If all the answers to the respective questions of the steps to are affirmative YES i.e. if all the conditions c to c are satisfied it is determined that the conditions for executing the stop control process are satisfied and the process proceeds to a step wherein to indicate the fact a stop control flag F IDLSTP is set to 1 followed by terminating the present process.

On the other hand if any of the answers to the respective questions of the steps to is negative NO i.e. if any of the conditions c to c is not satisfied it is determined that the conditions for executing the stop control process are not satisfied and the process proceeds to a step wherein to indicate the fact the stop control flag F IDLSTP is set to 0 followed by terminating the present process.

Referring again to in the step the stop determination process is executed as described above and then the process proceeds to a step to execute a restart determination process. This restart determination process is for determining whether or not conditions for executing a restart control process for restarting the engine in a stopped state are satisfied. Specifically the restart determination process is executed as shown in .

As shown in first in a step it is determined whether or not the air conditioner is in operation. If the answer to this question is negative NO i.e. if the air conditioner has been stopped the process proceeds to a step wherein a restart determination process for air conditioner stoppage time is executed followed by terminating the present process. Although detailed description of the restart determination process for air conditioner stoppage time is omitted in this determination process when the conditions for executing the restart control process are satisfied during stoppage of the air conditioner a restart control flag F RESTART is set to 1 and is otherwise set to 0.

On the other band if the answer to the question. of the step is affirmative YES i.e. if the air conditioner is in operation the process proceeds to a step wherein it is determined whether or not the air conditioner is performing a heating operation. If the answer to this question is affirmative YES i.e. if the air conditioner is performing a heating operation the process proceeds to a step wherein a restart determination process for air conditioner operation time is executed. This determination process is executed specifically as shown in .

As shown in first in a step it is determined whether or not the stop control flag F IDLSTP is equal to 1. If the answer to this question is negative NO it is determined that it is not necessary to restart the engine and the conditions for executing the restart control process are not satisfied the process proceeds to a step wherein to indicate the fact the restart control flag F RESTART is set to 0 followed by terminating the present process.

On the other hand if the answer to the question of the step is affirmative YES the process proceeds to a step wherein an immediately preceding value F IDLSTPz of the stop control flag is equal to 0. If the answer to this question is negative NO i.e. if the conditions for executing the stop control process were satisfied in the immediately preceding control timing the process proceeds to a step referred to hereinafter.

On the other hand if the answer to the question of the step is affirmative YES i.e. if the conditions for executing the stop control process have come to be satisfied in the current control timing the process proceeds to a step wherein a lower limit blowout temperature TAO L is calculated by searching a map shown in according to a target blowout temperature TAO. This target blowout temperature TAO is calculated in an air conditioner control process described hereinafter.

Referring to TAO and TAO represent predetermined values of the target blowout temperature TAO and are set in advance such that TAO

In a step following the step a stop time blowout temperature TAO STP is set to the target blowout temperature TAO. Then the process proceeds to a step wherein it is determined whether or not the inside air circulation is being performed. If the answer to this question is affirmative YES the process proceeds to a step wherein an air conditioner suction temperature TIN is set to the compartment temperature TR. On the other hand if the answer to the question of the step is negative NO i.e. if the outside air introduction is being performed the process proceeds to a step wherein the air conditioner suction temperature TIN is set to the outside air temperature TAM.

In a step following the step or a temperature drop amount is calculated by searching a map shown in according to the air conditioner suction temperature TIN and a fan voltage VF. The temperature drop amount represents a value of drop amount of the compartment temperature TR per unit time. Further the fan voltage VP represents a value of a voltage supplied from the battery to the electric fan and is detected by the above mentioned current voltage sensor .

Furthermore in VF to VFi i represents an integer represent predetermined values of the fan voltage VF and are set to larger values as the value of i is larger. Further TIN to TINj j represents an integer represent predetermined values of the air conditioner suction temperature TIN and are set to larger values as the value of j is larger. In this map the temperature drop amount is set to larger values as the fan voltage VF is higher or the air conditioner suction temperature TIN is lower. This is because the actual blowout temperature is easier to be lowered as the fan voltage VP is higher or the air conditioner suction temperature TIN is lower.

In a step following the step or an estimated blowout temperature TAO EST is calculated by the following equation 1 TAO EST TAO STP TOFF 1 

In this equation 1 TOFF represents a time period elapsed after satisfaction of the conditions for executing the stop control process and stoppage of the engine and therefore the product TOFF of the elapsed time period TOFF and the temperature drop amount corresponds to the drop amount of the blowout temperature from the engine stop timing to the present time.

Next the process proceeds to a step wherein it is determined whether or not the estimated blowout. temperature TAO EST is not higher than the lower limit blowout temperature TAO L. If the answer to this question is negative NO i.e. if TAO EST TAO L holds it is determined that the conditions for executing the restart control process are not satisfied and the process proceeds to the above described step wherein the restart control flag F RESTART is set to 0 followed by terminating the present process.

On the other hand if the answer to the question of the step is affirmative YES i.e. if TAO EST TAO L holds it is determined that the conditions for executing the restart control process are satisfied and the process proceeds to a step wherein to indicate the fact the restart control flag F RESTART is set to 1. Then the process proceeds to a step wherein the stop control flag F IDLSTP is set to 0 followed by terminating the present process.

Referring again to in the step the restart determination process during the heating operation of the air conditioner is executed as described above followed by terminating the restart determination process.

On the other hand if the answer to the question of the above described step is negative NO i.e. if the air conditioner is performing a cooling operation or a dehumidifying operation the process proceeds to a step wherein a restart determination process for cooling or dehumidifying operation time is executed. Although detailed description of the restart determination process for cooling or dehumidifying operation time is omitted in this determination process when the conditions for executing the restart control process are satisfied during the cooling or dehumidifying operation of the air conditioner the restart control flag F RESTART is set to 1 and is otherwise set to 0. After execution of the step as described above the restart determination process is terminated.

Referring again to in the step the restart determination process is executed as described above and then the process proceeds to a step wherein it is determined whether or not the stop control flag F IDLSTP is equal to 1. If the answer to this question is affirmative YES the process proceeds to a step to execute the stop control process of the engine . Specifically fuel injection of each fuel injection valve is stopped and at the same time the ignition operation of each spark plug is stopped whereby the engine is stopped. After thus executing the step the present process is terminated.

On the other hand if the answer to the question of the step is negative NO i.e. if F IDLSTP 0 holds the process proceeds to a step wherein it is determined whether or not the restart control flag F RESTART is equal to 1. If the answer to this question is negative NO the present process is immediately terminated.

On the other hand if the answer to the question of the step is affirmative YES the process proceeds to a step to execute the restart control process of the engine . Specifically the crankshaft is driven for rotation by the starter and fuel injection of each fuel injection valve and the ignition operation of each spark plug are executed to thereby restart the engine . After thus executing the step the present process is terminated.

Next the air conditioner control process executed by the ECU will be described with reference to . As described hereinafter this air conditioner control process is for controlling the operation and stoppage of the air conditioner and is executed at the above mentioned predetermined. control period T.

As shown in first in a step the target blowout temperature TAO is calculated. This target blowout temperature TAO is calculated by searching a map not shown according to the compartment temperature TR the outside air temperature TAM the solar radiation amount GSOL and the set temperature TSET output from the air conditioner switch .

Then the process proceeds to a step wherein the operation or stoppage of the air conditioner is controlled according to the target blowout temperature TAO the operating condition of the air conditioner switch etc. followed by terminating the present process.

As described heretofore according to the control system of the present embodiment the lower limit blowout temperature TAO L is calculated based on the target blowout temperature TAO when F IDLSTP 1 holds and the estimated blowout temperature TAO EST is calculated by subtracting the temperature drop amount TOFF from the stop time blowout temperature TAO STP. Further when the estimated blowout temperature TAO EST has become not higher than the lower limit blowout temperature TAO L the engine is restarted. In the case of the engine according to the present. embodiment the water pump is configured to be driven by the motive power of the engine and hence when the engine is temporarily stopped by the idle stop control during stoppage of the vehicle the water pump as well is stopped. As a consequence the engine coolant ceases to circulate within the cooling circuit to stop supply of heat from the cylinder block of the engine to the heater core of the air conditioner which results in the lowered blowout temperature.

On the other hand according to the control system of the present embodiment when the estimated blowout temperature TAO EST has become not higher than the lower limit blowout temperature TAO L the engine is restarted and the lower limit blowout temperature TAO L is set to the lowest temperature that does not discomfort an occupant in the vehicle compartment during the heating operation of the air conditioner . Therefore even when the blowout temperature is lowered along with stoppage of the engine during the heating operation it is possible to restart the engine in timing by which an engine stoppage time period can be ensured as long as possible while preventing the compartment temperature from being lowered to an unpleasant temperature. This makes it possible to ensure marketability and fuel economy performance in a well balanced manner.

Further the estimated blowout temperature TAO EST is calculated by subtracting the temperature drop amount TOFF from the stop time blowout temperature TAO STP The temperature drop amount TOFF is the product of the temperature drop amount and the elapsed time period TOFF and the temperature drop amount is calculated based on the fan voltage VS and the air conditioner suction temperature TIN detected when F IDLSTP 1 holds i.e. when the conditions for executing the stop control process are satisfied. In this case both of the fan voltage VF and the air conditioner suction temperature TIN have a very high correlation with the drop of the temperature of air blown out from the air conditioner after timing in which the engine is temporarily stopped so that by using such two values it is possible to calculate the temperature drop amount after the timing in which the engine is temporarily stopped with high calculation accuracy which makes it possible to enhance the calculation accuracy of the estimated blowout temperature TAO EST. As a consequence it is possible to more properly determine restart timing from the stopped state of the engine thereby making it possible to ensure marketability and fuel economy performance in a well balanced manner.

Further the lower limit blowout temperature TAO L is calculated based on the target blowout temperature TAO when F IDLSTP 1 holds and the target blowout temperature TAO is set according to the compartment temperature TR the outside air temperature TAM the solar radiation amount GSOL and the set temperature TSET and hence the lower limit blowout temperature TAO L is calculated based on values such as the compartment temperature TR the outside air temperature TAM the solar radiation amount GSOL and the set temperature TSET which indicate the operating environment of the air conditioner in timing in which the conditions for executing the stop control process are satisfied. This makes it possible to properly set the lower limit blowout temperature TAO L while causing the operating environment of the air conditioner in timing for stopping the engine to be reflected thereon. As a consequence it is possible to more properly determine the restart timing of the engine from the stopped state thereof thereby making it possible to ensure marketability and fuel economy performance in a better balanced manner.

Although in the above described embodiment the water pump is used as a heat supply device by way of example the heat supply device of the present invention is not limited to this but any suitable heat supply device may be employed insofar as it supplies heat to the air conditioner of the vehicle.

Further although in the above described embodiment the fan voltage VF is used as the power parameter by way of example the power parameter of the present invention is not limited to this any suitable power parameter may be employed insofar as it represents electric power supplied to the electric fan. For example electric current supplied to the electric fan may be used as the power parameter.

Furthermore although in the above described embodiment the current voltage sensor is used as the power parameter detecting means by way of example the power parameter detecting means of the present invention is not limited to this but any suitable power parameter detecting means may be employed insofar as it detect a power parameter indicative of electric power supplied to the electric fan. For example a sensor for detecting the value of electric current supplied to the electric fan may be used as the power parameter detecting means.

On the other hand although in the above described embodiment the compartment temperature TR the outside air temperature TAM the solar radiation amount GSOL and the set temperature TSET are used as the operating environment parameters by way of example the operating environment parameters of the present invention are not limited to these but any suitable operating environment parameters may be employed insofar as they represent the operating environment of the air conditioner.

It is further understood by those skilled in the art that the foregoing are preferred embodiments of the invention and that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

