---

title: Grenade with time delay
abstract: A grenade device produces a delayed bang upon coupling to a pressurized canister containing gas. The device includes an annular housing, an awl, a sleeve, a diaphragm, a base and a cap. The housing has first and second axial ends and an internal bulkhead disposed therebetween with a choke flow-through orifice. The awl extends axially outward from the bulkhead. The sleeve connects to the housing at the first axial end. The diaphragm is disposed between the sleeve and the housing to form an annular chamber. The cap inserts into the housing at the second axial end and receives the canister facing the awl. The base connects to the housing at the second axial end. When the canister is compressed towards the device the awl punctures the canister to release the gas, which flows through the choke orifice to pressurize the chamber, and the diaphragm ruptures upon exceeding a pressure threshold.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08904940&OS=08904940&RS=08904940
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08904940
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120720
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to devices that produce a loud but delayed sudden noise such as a bang. In particular the invention relates to a device such as a grenade that rapidly expands a compressed gas to produce a high amplitude acoustic signal after a controllable interval from its activation event.

Conventional flash bang grenades yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention such as controlled delay and specific noise level. Moreover such devices are not modular such that the components cannot be reused and reassembled.

In particular various embodiments provide a modular grenade device to produce a delayed bang upon coupling to a pressurized canister that contains gas. The device includes an annular housing a puncture awl a sleeve a diaphragm a base and a cap. The housing has first and second axial ends and an internal bulkhead disposed therebetween. The bulkhead has a choke flow through orifice. The awl extends axially outward from the bulkhead at the second axial end.

In various embodiments the sleeve removably connects to the housing at the first axial end. The diaphragm is disposed between the sleeve and the housing to form an annular chamber between the diaphragm and the bulkhead. The cap inserts into the housing at the second axial end. The cap receives the canister so as to face the awl. The base removably connects to the housing at the second axial end. In response to axial compression of the canister towards the device the awl punctures the canister to release the gas the gas flows through the choke orifice to pressurize the chamber and the diaphragm ruptures upon exceeding a pressure threshold in the chamber.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a delayed bang projectile DBP device as a grenade equipped with a controllable time interval between an activation event and the resulting action i.e. rapid expansion. The DBP device has been developed as a non lethal payload for an existing grenade launcher projectile. The DBP device has been designed to be safe during loading and handling and activates due to either the setback forces imposed on the system after firing or the force due to impact with the target. As is the case with most noise making devices the DBP device has been designed so as to have a time delay before making the noise so that it can be positioned some distance from the operator after initial activation.

The housing has proximate and distal ends along the axis with the sleeve attaching by screw threaded interfaces to the proximate end and the base attaching by screw threaded interfaces to the distal end. Leland 8 gram carbon dioxide CO cartridges are commonly used in paint guns to propel marker balls and in pellet pistols to fire BB pellets as well as to provide carbonation for soda water although other manufacturers also supply such cartridges. Each sparklet cartridge has a length of 2.56 inches and a diameter of 0.71 inch weighs about 0.86 oz 24.5 g and can maintain a pressure of 850 psi for storing compressed CO. These are preferably suitable to serve as the canister to provide pressurized gas to activate the DPB device. Alternatively custom filled cartridges that store compressed helium He or nitrogen N can be employed for such purposes without departing from the scope of the claims.

A recess orifice divided into larger and smaller diameter segments traverses through the bulkhead adjacent the pin . The recess orifice provides a constraint for choked gaseous flow being limited to sonic velocity. The diaphragm disk includes cruciform indentations or grooves to weaken its structure along these rupture fault lines. A chamber resides between the diaphragm disk and the bulkhead . After the pin punctures the canister the chamber fills with COgas the pressure rise rate within being attenuated by the recess orifice until the diaphragm disk ruptures along the grooves . Along its circumferential edge the diaphragm disk includes a protrusion between the sleeve and the housing indicated within the oval region . This protrusion serves for assembly alignment and leakage mitigation.

For exemplary embodiments most of the components such as sleeve housing cap and base are made of stainless steel 304. The pin comprises mirraloy or steel. Exceptions to this include diaphragm disk gasket and o ring . Exemplary diaphragm disks comprise either Mylar or aluminum depending on performance objectives. The gasket and o ring are made of rubber.

An exemplary design of the DBP device includes the following dimensions. The housing preferably has an axial length of 1.05 inches and an outer diameter of 0.725 inch. The sleeve and the base have threaded interface diameters of 0.6875 24UNF 2A to connect with the housing with inch hex rim respective inner diameters of 0.450 inch and 0.375 inch and respective axial lengths of 0.315 inch and 0.385 inch respectively. The cap has an outer diameter of 0.560 inch with a chamfer of 0.055 inch chord depth an inner threaded recess diameter of 0.375 24UNF 2B a through hole diameter of 0.150 inch and a length of 0.440 inch.

Exemplary diaphragm disks have thicknesses of alternatively 0.012 and 0.014 inch. In the examples tested the diaphragm disk includes cruciform indentations or grooves milled into the material at approximately 0.004 inch. The resulting etched thickness of about 0.009 inch coupled with the pressure from the canister and the blow down rate through the recess orifice directly affects the time delay interval and sound intensity of the DBP device . For the configuration shown the diaphragm fails along the grooves at less than the 850 psi deliverable by the canister depending on the desired sound intensity and time delay. Field and lab testing produced time delays up to 2 minutes upon initiation and sound intensities of 147 dB.

Control of both the time delay and the sound intensity are functions of the storage pressure of the canister the diameter of the recess orifice material of the diaphragm disk and the diaphragm score depth along the grooves . The recess orifice preferably has a diameter of 50 micron about 0.002 inch for the smaller portion or a choke flow area of 3 10square inch. An alternative diameter is 0.0156 inch. Assuming substantially constant storage pressure of the canister the recess orifice controls the blow down into the chamber just below the diaphragm disk . With this flowrate established the optimal manner to control time delay and sound intensity involves tailoring a diaphragm disk to rupture at a given pressure.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a loud blast or bang type noise to be produced at a given time after impact. The DBP subassembly includes a rupture diaphragm or burst disk and a pressurized container such as a typical commercial off the shelf COTS CO8 gram canister . The delay time and amplitude of the sound created by the DBP device can be tailored by selecting the appropriate diaphragm disk and container pressure. Due to the compact size of the complete assembly the DBP device can be installed in any number of housings ranging from hand throw type devices to munitions fired from a weapon.

The DBP device is assembled as shown in exploded view . The instructions below describe a process by which to assemble and therefore use the DBP device 

Upon assembly of the DBP device the diaphragm disk is captured between the annular housing and upper hexagonal sleeve . These pieces include a groove and matching protrusion shown in region thereby preventing leakage around edges of the diaphragm disk when under pressure and also prevent the diaphragm disk from being pushed out prior to rupture. The pressurized canister is threaded into the canister cap ensuring the o ring is properly disposed to prevent pressure leakage.

Upon impact at either end of the DBP device the assembled canister cap and canister translate to impinge against the flange pin thereby puncturing the canister . Then COgas escapes the canister and forces through a very small hole in the recess orifice in the bulkhead of the annular housing disposed below the diaphragm disk . This hole controls the flowrate of the gas and can be sized depending upon its choke flow diameter and pressure in the canister . The chamber pressurizes and subsequently ruptures the diaphragm disk along the grooves .

The DBP device can be tailored to a number of applications depending on the desired sound level and delay. Due to its compact size the DBP device can be packaged for a wide range of applications alternatively scaled using substantially congruent components. Crowd control training and a range of war fighting applications can benefit from this technology having been developed for a Department of Defense DoD program as a non lethal capability. The DBP device has demonstrated effectiveness during range testing and is being promoted to outside vendors. Due to its simplicity and range of application the DBP device can be easily tailored to a wide range of projectile platforms.

Components of the DBP device are reusable after disassembly with the exception of the diaphragm disk after rupture and the canister being scalable to increased or decreased sizes. The DBP device can be packaged in a wide range of applications constitutes a simple safe mechanical assembly and can be sized to function in different configurations such as a multi bang hand throw grenade. The DBP device can be coupled with other technologies such as mal odorants placed in the pressurized container or iron sulphide powder which flash brightly when in contact with air flash bang device .

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

