---

title: Location-based automatic payment system
abstract: A method for making a location-based automatic payment includes receiving an automatic payment instruction that designates a payee account. The automatic payment instruction is associated with a payer account in a database. A payment location is received and associated with the automatic payment request in the database. A payer device that is associated with the payer account is determined to be in the payment location and, in response, a payment request is sent over a network to make a payment from the payer account to the payee account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639829&OS=09639829&RS=09639829
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09639829
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120330
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 035 251 filed Feb. 25 2011 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to online and or mobile payments and more particularly to a location based automatic payment system

More and more consumers are purchasing items and services over electronic networks such as for example the Internet. Consumers routinely purchase products and services from merchants and individuals alike. The transactions may take place directly between a conventional or on line merchant or retailer and the consumer and payment is typically made by entering credit card or other financial information. Transactions may also take place with the aid of an on line or mobile payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. Such payment service providers can make transactions easier and safer for the parties involved. Purchasing with the assistance of a payment service provider from the convenience of virtually anywhere using a mobile device is one main reason why on line and mobile purchases are growing very quickly.

It is sometimes desirable to provide payments automatically. For example a payer may have one or more reoccurring payments such as for example a mortgage payment utility bills etc and the payer may instruct a payment service provider to make those payments automatically. Typically the payer may create a time based automatic payment by specifying a payee a day of the month and an amount for the automatic payment and then the payment service provider will may that payment to that payee at that time every month. However such conventional systems cannot account for reoccurring payments that may be variable with respect to time.

According to one embodiment a method for making a location based automatic payment includes receiving an automatic payment instruction that designates a payee account. The automatic payment instruction is associated with a payer account in a database. A payment location is also received and associated with the automatic payment instruction in the database.

In an embodiment the method determines that a payer device that is associated with the payer account is in the payment location and in response sends a payment request over a network to make a payment from the payer account to the payee account. In another embodiment a payment time period and or a maximum payment frequency may be associated with the automatic payment instruction and when the method determines that the payer device is in the payment location the method also may determine whether a current time corresponds to the payment time period or whether a plurality of previous payments exceed the maximum frequency in order to determine whether to make the payment.

As a result a payer may create automatic payments that are triggered based on the location of a payment device. This may be particularly useful when the payer periodically makes payments to a payee only when the payer is in the same location as the payee.

These and other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying figures.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure provides a system and method for making automatic payments based on the location of a payer. An automatic payment instruction designates a payee account includes a payment location and is associated with a payer account. When a payer device that is associated with that automatic payment instruction and or payer account is determined to be in the payment location a payment request to make a payment from the payer account to the payee account is sent over a network. A payment time period and or a maximum payment frequency may be associated with the payment location of the automatic payment instruction to further specific when and or how often the automatic payment should be made. The system and method allow a payer to automatically makes payments to a payee by simply being in a designated location.

Referring now to a method for making location based automatic payments is illustrated. In the embodiment of the method described below an account provider provides an payer with a payer account and the payer may use the payer account to fund payments for purchases made from payees. In another embodiment a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. assists in the making of payments from the payer to the payee by transferring funds from the payer account to a payee account of the payee. However these embodiments are meant to be merely exemplary and one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of modifications may be made to the payment system discussed below without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The method begins at blocks and where an automatic payment instruction is received and that automatic payment instruction is associated with a payer account. In an embodiment a payer having a payer device illustrated in may access their account over a network e.g. the Internet by connecting to an account provider device of the account provider may access a payment service account over the network by connecting to a payment service provider device of a payment service provider or may provide the automatic payment instruction discussed below to the payer device e.g. to a database or storage device on the payer device . One of skill in the art will recognize that either or both of an account provider or a payment service provider may provide for the location based automatic payments from the payer account as is discussed below. While the user device is illustrated and described below as a mobile device such as for example a mobile phone or computer one of skill in the art will recognize that the setting of the location based automatic payments from the payer account may be performed on a desktop computer on other computing systems connected to a network and or using a variety of other devices known in the art.

At block and of the method the payment system provides the payer with an automatic payment instruction page to create an automatic payment instruction for making automatic payments from the payer account. In the embodiment illustrated in the payer is providing the automatic payment instruction page for a payment service account provided by a payment service provider that allows the payer to make payments from any of a plurality of payer accounts and and the payer has selected the account for making automatic payments. In an embodiment the payment service provider may receive e.g. at a payment service provider device through a network the payer account and associate the payer account with the automatic payment instruction in a database or the payer account may be associated with the automatic payment instruction in the payer device . In response to selecting the account for automatic payments the payment system presents the payer with a payee input in which the payer is prompted to enter a payee to whom the automatic payments are to be made. Entry of the payee may include entering the payee s email address phone number user name name or other payee identifier.

In an embodiment the payment service provider device and or the payer device may receive the payee entered in the payee input and then determine a payee account that is associated with that payee and associate that payee account with the automatic payment instruction in a database. In another embodiment the payer may access an account provided by an account holder and rather than being presented with multiple accounts the payer may only be presented with the payee input for a single account e.g. the account provided by the account provider. The payment system may then present the payee with automatic payment options including a time based automatic payment option discussed above and a location based automatic payment option .

Referring now to the method then proceeds to blocks and where a payment location is received and associated with the automatic payment instruction. A selection by the payer of the location based automatic payment option on the automatic payment instruction page may result in the payment system presenting the payer e.g. on the payer device with a location provision page for the automatic payment instruction. The location provision page includes location input and a map indicator .

In an embodiment the location input allows the payer to key in a payment location. For example the payer may key in a payee name an address and or a variety of other location information known in the art in order to indicate a location at which the payer would like automatic payments to be made. In an embodiment upon keying the payment location into the location input a payment location indicator may be displayed on the map indicator to indicate to the payer where on the map the payment location that was keyed into the location input is located.

In an embodiment the payer may select a Use Current Location button in order to provide a payment location that is the current location of the payer and payer device . For example selection of the Use Current Location button may result in location data being retrieved by a location determination device e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device a cell tower triangulation system device and or a variety of other location determination devices known in the art in the payer device and the location determination data being used to provide the payment location. In an embodiment in response to a selection of the Use Current Location button a payment location indicator may be displayed on the map indicator to indicate to the payer where on the map the payment location that corresponds to the location data retrieved from the location determination device is located.

In an embodiment the payer may use the map indicator to select a payment location. For example the payer device may be a touch sensitive device and the payer may select the payment location indicator using a method known in the art e.g. touching the payer device at the desired payment location on the map indicator dropping a pin on the map indicator and manipulating the pin with a finger to the desired payment location selecting an area on the map indicator etc. 

When the payer has provided the payment location on the location provision page the payer may select the Submit button to associate the payment location with the automatic payment instruction e.g. in the payer device by sending the payment location to the payment service provider device and or the account provider device over the network etc. While a number of embodiments of a payment location selection process have been described for providing a payment location to make automatic payments such embodiments are merely exemplary and one of skill in the art will understand that a variety of other payment location selections processes will fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

In an embodiment the automatic payment instruction may include associated payment details that may be selected by the payer and applied to the automatic payment instruction e.g. upon the payer selecting the Submit button . Referring now to an embodiment of a payment details page is illustrated that the payment system may present to the payer upon the payer providing a payment location on the location provision page . The payment details page includes a Payment Amount detail a Payment Time Period detail a Maximum Payment Frequency detail a Payment Location Proximity detail a Pay Automatically detail and a Request Confirmation Before Paying detail . The payer may then use the payments details page to associate payment details with the payment location provided in the automatic payment instruction.

For example if the payer wishes to automatically make a payment of the same amount each time the payer is located in the payment location the payer may enter a payment amount e.g. 25 in the illustrated embodiment in a payment amount input of the Payment Amount detail . If the payer wishes to automatically make a payment only at certain times that the payer is located in the payment location the payer may modify time period inputs and e.g. to limit automatic payments to being made on Monday Wednesday and Friday of each week between 6 pm and 8 pm in the illustrated embodiment in the Payment Time Period detail . If the payer wishes to automatically make payments at no greater than a certain frequency the payer may modify frequency inputs and e.g. no more than 2 times per week in the illustrated embodiment in the Maximum Payment Frequency detail . If the payer wishes adjust the sensitivity of the payment location the payer may modify a proximity input e.g. such that payments will be attempted when the payer device is within 50 ft of the payment location in the Payment Location Proximity detail the proximity input may include a default value. If the payer wishes for payments to be made automatically e.g. in response to the automatic payment request being satisfied and no further confirmation from the payer the payer may select the Pay Automatically detail . If the payer wishes for a confirmation to be requested before making an automatic payment e.g. in response to the automatic payment request being satisfied a confirmation request being sent to the payer device the payer may select the Request Confirmation Before Paying detail . The payer may then select the Submit button to associate the payment details with the payment location in the automatic payment instruction e.g. in the payer device by sending the payment details to the payment service provider device and or the account provider device etc. 

One of skill in the art will recognize how combinations of the payment details and or may be applied to the payment location discussed above to precisely define how an automatic payment is to be made. Furthermore the payment details discussed above are meant to be merely exemplary and one of skill in the art will recognize how a variety of other payment details may be provided to further define how and when the automatic payment should be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to the method then proceeds to block where it is determined that a payer device is in the payment location and in response a payment request is sent. As discussed above the payer device includes a location determination device e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device a cell tower triangulation system device and or a variety of other location determination devices known in the art that is operable to determine a current location of the payer device that may be used to trigger an automatic payment according to the automatic payment instruction discussed above. That current location may be determined for example by using location data received from the location determination device.

For example the location determination device on the payer device may determine a current location of the payer device and that current location may be compared with the payment locations associated with automatic payment instructions in the payer device to determine that the payer device is in a payment location. In an embodiment the payer device may be determined to be in a payment location associated with an automatic payment instruction if the payer device is within a predetermined distance of the payment location e.g. according to the Payment Location Proximity detail discussed above. In another embodiment the location determination device may determine first location data for a current location of the payer device and that first location data may be compared to second location data for a payment location that is associated with an automatic payment instruction in the payment device to determine that the first location data corresponds to the payment location. In an embodiment the first location data may be determined to be in a payment location associated with an automatic payment instruction if the first location data is within a predetermined distance of the second location data for the payment location e.g. according to the Payment Location Proximity detail discussed above. In response to determining that the payment device is in a payment location associated with an automatic payment instruction a payment request may be sent by the payer device over the network to a payment service provider device and or an account provider device to make a payment from the payer account designated in the automatic payment instruction to the payee account designated in the automatic payment instruction. In response to receiving the payment request the payment service provider device and or the account provider device may transfer funds from the payer account to the payee account e.g. over a network. 

In another example the location determination device on the payer device may determine a current location of the payer device and that current location may be sent over a network to a payment service provider device and or an account provider device to be compared with the payment locations associated with automatic payment instructions in the database to determine that the payer device is in a payment location. In an embodiment the payer device may be determined to be in a payment location associated with an automatic payment instruction if the payer device is within a predetermined distance of the payment location e.g. according to the Payment Location Proximity detail discussed above. In another embodiment the location determination device may determine first location data for a current location of the payer device and that first location data may be sent over a network to a payment service provider device and or an account provider device to be compared to second location data for a payment location that is associated with an automatic payment instruction in the database to determine that the first location data corresponds to the payment location. In an embodiment the first location data may be determined to be in a payment location associated with an automatic payment instruction if the first location data is within a predetermined distance of the second location data associated with the payment location e.g. according to the Payment Location Proximity detail discussed above. In response to determining that the payment device is in a payment location associated with an automatic payment instruction a payment request may be sent over a network within the payment service provider and or the account provider to make a payment from the payer account designated in the automatic payment instruction to the payee account designated in the automatic payment instruction. In response to receiving the payment request the payment service provider device and or the account provider device may transfer funds from the payer account to the payee account e.g. over a network. 

In an embodiment upon determining that the payer device is in a payment location associated with an automatic payment instruction the payment system may apply the payment details that were associated with the payment location as discussed above.

For example in one embodiment the payment device the payment service provider device and or the account provider device may apply the Payment Amount detail such that the payment request includes a payment amount that was included with the Payment Amount detail .

In another embodiment the payment device the payment service provider device and or the account provider device may apply the Payment Time Period detail by retrieving a current time and determining if the current time is within a payment time period that was included with the Payment Time Period detail . If the current time within the payment time period the payment request is sent while if the current time is outside the payment time period the payment request is not sent.

In another embodiment the payment device the payment service provider device and or the account provider device may apply the Maximum Payment Frequency detail by retrieving a plurality of previous payments from the payer account to the payee account that are designated in the automatic payment instruction and determining whether that plurality of previous payments exceeds a maximum payment frequency that was included with the Maximum Payment Frequency detail . If the plurality of previous payments do not exceed the maximum payment frequency the payment request is sent while if the plurality of previous payments exceed the maximum payment frequency the payment request is not sent.

In another embodiment the payment device the payment service provider device and or the account provider device may apply the Pay Automatically detail and send the payment request automatically upon determining that the payer device is a payment location that is associated with an automatic payment instruction.

In another embodiment the payment device the payment service provider device and or the account provider device may apply the Request Confirmation Before Paying detail and provide a confirmation request to the payer device before sending the payment request. For example as illustrated in an alert may be provided on the payer device e.g. from the payer device over the network from the payment service provider device and or the account provider device etc. that may include a payment confirmation section a location indicator a last payment indicator and a Send Payment Request button . The payment confirmation section includes a payment amount input that may be pre populated with an amount that was provided in the automatic payment instruction that may be editable using the payer device to provide a different payment amount and or that may be blank such that a payment amount must be provided using the payer device . The payer may then provide edit and or confirm the payment amount and the information in the alert and send the payment request by selecting the Send Payment Request button .

Thus a system and method for making automatic payments based on a payer location is provided that allows a payer to define locations times amounts and other details of an automatic payment. When a payer device of the payer is determined to be in a payment location in which the payer has indicated they would like to make automatic payments a payment request may be sent to make a payment from a payer account to a payee account. Such systems and methods allow an payer to automatically pay a payee when the payer is in the same location as the payee.

Referring now to an embodiment of a networked system used in the payment system described above is illustrated. The networked system includes a plurality of payer devices a plurality of payee devices a payment service provider device and a plurality of account holder devices in communication over a network . Any of the payer devices may be the payer device discussed above. The payee devices may be the payee devices discussed above and may be operated by the payees discussed above. The payment service provider device may be the payment service provider devices discussed above and may be operated by a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. The account provider devices may be the account provider devices discussed above and may be operated by the account providers discussed above such as for example credit card account providers bank account providers savings account providers and a variety of other account providers known in the art.

The payer devices payee devices payment service provider device and account provider devices may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable mediums such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of the system and or accessible over the network .

The network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

The payer device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the payer device may be implemented as a personal computer of a user in communication with the Internet. In other embodiments the payer device may be a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices.

The payer device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit the payer to browse information available over the network . For example in one embodiment the browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet.

The payer device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide user side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by the payer. In one embodiment the toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with the browser application.

The payer device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to the payer device . In particular the other applications may include a payment application for payments assisted by a payment service provider through the payment service provider device . The other applications may also include security applications for implementing user side security features programmatic user applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or other types of applications. Email and or text applications may also be included which allow the payer to send and receive emails and or text messages through the network . The payer device includes one or more user and or device identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the browser application identifiers associated with hardware of the payer device or other appropriate identifiers such as a phone number. In one embodiment the user identifier may be used by the payment service provider device and or account provider device to associate the user with a particular account as further described herein.

The payee device may be maintained for example by a conventional or on line merchant conventional or digital goods seller individual seller and or application developer offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received conventionally or over the network . In this regard the payee device may include a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by the payer.

The payee device also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by the payer of items. The checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from the user through the payer device the account provider through the account provider device and or from the payment service provider through the payment service provider device over the network .

Referring now to an embodiment of a payer device is illustrated. The payer device may be the payer devices and or . The payer device includes a chassis having a display and an input device including the display and a plurality of input buttons . One of skill in the art will recognize that the payer device is a portable or mobile phone including a touch screen input device and a plurality of input buttons that allow the functionality discussed above with reference to the method . However a variety of other portable mobile payer devices and or desktop payer devices may be used in the method without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an embodiment of a computer system suitable for implementing for example the payer device the payer device the payer device the payees device the payment service provider device and or the account provider device is illustrated. It should be appreciated that other devices utilized by payer payees payment service providers and account providers in the payment system discussed above may be implemented as the computer system in a manner as follows.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard keypad or virtual keyboard a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer or trackball and or a location determination component e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device as illustrated a cell tower triangulation device and or a variety of other location determination devices known in the art. In one implementation the disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure the computer system performs specific operations by the processor executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in the memory component such as described herein with respect to the payer device and the payee device s the payment service provider device and or the account provider device s . Such instructions may be read into the system memory component from another computer readable medium such as the static storage component or the disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as the disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as the system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise the bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read. In one embodiment the computer readable media is non transitory.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by the computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of the computer systems coupled by a communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

The computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through the communication link and the network interface component . The network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via the communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Referring now to an embodiment of a payer device payment service provider device account provider device is illustrated. In an embodiment the device may be the payer device and the payment service provider device and or the account holder device . The device includes a communication engine that is coupled to the network and to an automatic payment engine that is coupled to a payer database . The communication engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that allows the device to send and receive information over the network . The automatic payment engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that is operable to receive automatic payment instructions payment locations and payment details and associate them with payers accounts in the database receive payment locations to determine whether the payer device is in a payment location associated with an automatic payment instruction send payment requests and provide any of the other functionality that is discussed above. While the database has been illustrated as located in the payer device one of skill in the art will recognize that it may be connected to the automatic payment engine through the network without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example the above embodiments have focused on payees and payers however a payer or consumer can pay or otherwise interact with any type of recipient including charities and individuals. The payment does not have to involve a purchase but may be a loan a charitable contribution a gift etc. Thus payee as used herein can also include charities individuals and any other entity or person receiving a payment from a payer. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

