---

title: Methods and systems for contact importing using a mobile device
abstract: Techniques to allow a social networking system to import contact information from an external system. In one embodiment, a QR code is provided to a non-mobile computing device to allow a log in to an external system by a user using a mobile computing device. Information from the external system is received after authentication of the user with the external system. The information includes address book information of the user. The address book information includes contact information maintained by the external system. Invitations are provided to a selection of the new contacts to join the social network of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09406081&OS=09406081&RS=09406081
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09406081
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121026
---
The present application relates to a social networking system and in particular contact information management.

Social networking websites provide a dynamic environment in which members can connect to and communicate with other members. These websites may commonly provide online mechanisms allowing members to interact within their preexisting social networks as well as create new social networks. Members may include any individual or entity such as an organization or business. Among other attributes social networking websites allow members to effectively and efficiently communicate relevant information to their social networks.

A member of a social network may highlight or share personal information news stories relationship activities music and any other content of interest to areas of the website dedicated to the member. Other members of the social network may access the shared content by browsing member profiles or performing dedicated searches. Upon access to and consideration of the content the other members may react by taking one or more responsive actions such as providing an opinion about the content or other feedback. The ability of members to interact in this manner fosters communications among them and helps to realize the goals of social networking websites.

The experience of a user of a social networking website may be enhanced by the addition of relatives friends colleagues and other contacts to her social network. Contact information for the contacts of the user may be distributed over many disparate systems and applications. When distributed in this manner the management of contact information may impede the ability of the user to communicate with the contacts and to present invitations for the contacts to join the social network of the user. As a result optimal growth of the social network of the user may be compromised.

To allow a social networking system to import contact information from an external system embodiments of the invention include systems methods and computer readable media to provide a reference to a non mobile computing device to allow a log in to an external system by a user using a mobile computing device. Information from the external system is received after authentication of the user with the external system.

In an embodiment an indication is provided for the user to provide credentials for the log in. The log in by the user includes provision of a PIN by the user. The authentication is based on an identifier associated with the mobile computing device.

In an embodiment a notice is provided for the user to perform the log in with the mobile computing device. A progress bar is provided to guide the user through a sequence associated with contact importing.

In an embodiment the information includes address book information of the user. The address book information includes contact information maintained by the external system. Contact information maintained by the computer system is retrieved. The contact information maintained by the external system and the contact information maintained by the computer system are synchronized. New contact information including new contacts is identified based on the synchronizing. The new contact information is maintained in the computer system.

In an embodiment a selection of the new contacts to be added to a social network of the user is requested. Invitations to join the social network of the user are provided to the selection of the new contacts.

In an embodiment the log in by the user to the external system using a mobile computing device requires fewer credentials than a log in by the user to the external system using the non mobile computing device.

Many other features and embodiments of the invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the following detailed description.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only wherein the figures use like reference numerals to identify like elements. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated in the figures may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

The user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a device having computer functionality such as a smart phone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone etc. The user device is configured to communicate via the network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the user device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API provided by the native operating system of the user device such as iOS and ANDROID. The user device is configured to communicate with the external system and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using wired and or wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA GSM LTE digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP file transfer protocol FTP and the like. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML and extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

In one embodiment the user device may display content from the external system and or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the external system and from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the external system and the social networking system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. Additionally the markup language document may include JavaScript Object Notation JSON data JSON with padding JSONP and JavaScript data to facilitate data interchange between the external system and the user device . The browser application on the user device may use a JavaScript compiler to decode the markup language document .

The markup language document may also include or link to applications or application frameworks such as FLASH or Unity applications the SilverLight application framework etc.

In one embodiment the user device also includes one or more cookies including data indicating whether a user of the user device is logged into the social networking system which may enable customization of the data communicated from the social networking system to the user device .

The external system includes one or more web servers that include one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The external system is separate from the social networking system . For example the external system is associated with a first domain while the social networking system is associated with a separate social networking domain. Web pages included in the external system comprise markup language documents identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content.

The social networking system includes one or more computing devices for a social network including a plurality of users and providing users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. In some instances the social network can be represented by a graph i.e. a data structure including edges and nodes. Other data structures can also be used to represent the social network including but not limited to databases objects classes meta elements files or any other data structure.

Users may join the social networking system and then add connections to any number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system . For example in an embodiment if users in the social networking system are represented as nodes in the social graph the term friend can refer to an edge formed between and directly connecting two user nodes.

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral two way or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of the social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees of separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks i.e. social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via services provided by or through the social networking system and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system . These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on the social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in the external system separate from the social networking system or coupled to the social networking system via the network .

The social networking system is also capable of linking a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as external systems or other entities through an API a web service or other communication channels. The social networking system generates and maintains the social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent an entity that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. The social graph may include various types of nodes. Examples of types of nodes include users non person entities content items web pages groups activities messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in the social networking system . An edge between two nodes in the social graph may represent a particular kind of connection or association between the two nodes which may result from node relationships or from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. In some cases the edges between nodes can be weighted. The weight of an edge can represent an attribute associated with the edge such as a strength of the connection or association between nodes. Different types of edges can be provided with different weights. For example an edge created when one user likes another user may be given one weight while an edge created when a user befriends another user may be given a different weight.

As an example when a first user identifies a second user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and a second node representing the second user. As various nodes relate or interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the relationships and interactions.

The social networking system also includes user generated content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information images such as photos videos links music or other similar data and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party. Content items are represented as objects in the social networking system . In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels. Such communication increases the interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact with the social networking system .

The social networking system includes a web server an API request server a user profile store a connection store an action logger an activity log an authorization server and a contact importing module . In an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Other components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The user profile store maintains information about user accounts including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like that has been declared by users or inferred by the social networking system . This information is stored in the user profile store such that each user is uniquely identified. The social networking system also stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. Connections with other nodes in the social networking system such as non person entities buckets cluster centers images interests pages external systems concepts and the like are also stored in the connection store .

The social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact. To maintain this data the user profile store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s account and information related to a user s account. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user account and begins to populate the fields of the user account with information provided by the user.

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to external systems or connections to other entities. The connection store may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting to regulate access to information about the user. In an embodiment of the invention the user profile store and the connection store may be implemented as a federated database.

Data stored in the connection store the user profile store and the activity log enables the social networking system to generate the social graph that uses nodes to identify various objects and edges connecting nodes to identify relationships between different objects. For example if a first user establishes a connection with a second user in the social networking system user accounts of the first user and the second user from the user profile store may act as nodes in the social graph. The connection between the first user and the second user stored by the connection store is an edge between the nodes associated with the first user and the second user. Continuing this example the second user may then send the first user a message within the social networking system . The action of sending the message which may be stored is another edge between the two nodes in the social graph representing the first user and the second user. Additionally the message itself may be identified and included in the social graph as another node connected to the nodes representing the first user and the second user.

In another example a first user may tag a second user in an image that is maintained by the social networking system or alternatively in an image maintained by another system outside of the social networking system . The image may itself be represented as a node in the social networking system . This tagging action may create edges between the first user and the second user as well as create an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node in the social graph. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes obtained from the user profile store where the attendance of the event is an edge between the nodes that may be retrieved from the activity log . By generating and maintaining the social graph the social networking system includes data describing many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects providing a rich source of socially relevant information.

The web server links the social networking system to one or more user devices and or one or more external systems via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java JavaScript Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The API request server allows one or more external systems and user devices to call access information from the social networking system by calling one or more API functions. The API request server may also allow external systems to send information to the social networking system by calling APIs. The external system in one embodiment sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external system via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user such as the user s connections that have logged into the external system and communicates the collected data to the external system . In another embodiment the user device communicates with the social networking system via APIs in the same manner as external systems .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the activity log with information about user actions enabling the social networking system to discover various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another node on the social networking system may be associated with each user s account through information maintained in the activity log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social networking system that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user posting an image attempting to post an image or other actions interacting with another user or another object. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in the activity log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the activity log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the activity log . The activity log may be referred to as an action log.

Additionally user actions may be associated with concepts and actions that occur within an entity outside of the social networking system such as an external system that is separate from the social networking system . For example the action logger may receive data describing a user s interaction with an external system from the web server . In this example the external system reports a user s interaction according to structured actions and objects in the social graph.

Other examples of actions where a user interacts with an external system include a user expressing an interest in an external system or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses an external system or a web page within the external system a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with an external system a user attending an event associated with an external system or any other action by a user that is related to an external system . Thus the activity log may include actions describing interactions between a user of the social networking system and an external system that is separate from the social networking system .

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external systems or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user account information such as profile photos phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example the privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users the privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively the privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications or all external systems . One embodiment allows the specification of the set of entities to comprise an enumeration of entities. For example the user may provide a list of external systems that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all external systems to access the user s work information but specify a list of external systems that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list . External systems belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Various combinations of granularity of specification of information and granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible. For example all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends external systems and or other applications and entities. The external system may need authorization from the authorization server to access the user s more private and sensitive information such as the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user the external system an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user.

The contact importing module contains logic to allow a user of the social networking system to import contacts from an address book separate from the social networking system . The address book may be a record of contacts of the user that are maintained by a wireless service provider with which the user may have a mobile phone account. The contact importing module may cause a reference such as a QR code to be provided for a user that allows the user to log in to her account with the wireless service provider using the mobile phone. Upon authentication of the user and receipt of permission of the user contact information maintained by the wireless service provider may be provided to the social networking system . The contact importing module may synchronize the contact information with contact information already maintained by the social networking system to identify new contacts. The contact importing module may provide requests to selected new contacts to be added to the social network of the user as described in more detail below.

The social networking system may maintain some contact information of a user. However the entire contact information of the user may be maintained over a variety of systems including but not limited to the social networking system . The systems may involve various software applications that provide contact information storage and management capabilities such as email applications calendar applications personal productivity applications and dedicated contact management software. For example the user may store and manage some contact information in a software application installed on a desktop computer. As another example some contact information may be stored and managed by servers that provide the user access to a software application in the form of services. As yet another example the user may store and manage some contact information with a software application installed on a mobile computing device. The ability to import and synchronize contact information distributed over various systems may pose many advantages for the user. Among them the user may identify new contacts from the contact information who may be candidates for addition to the social network of the user with the social networking system .

The user may choose to log in to the wireless service provider and initiate the transfer of contact information from the wireless service provider to the social networking system using the mobile phone . The user may scan with the mobile phone a QR code presented by the social networking system on the desktop computer to access a log in page. Credentials for log in with the mobile phone may be more easily remembered or entered as compared to credentials for log in with the desktop computer . In this regard credentials for log in with the desktop computer may require the provision by the user of for example both a user ID and a password. In contrast credentials for log in with the mobile phone may require the provision by the user of only a PIN. With respect to log in involving the mobile phone the user be required to provide only a PIN because the identification of the mobile phone may be automatically provided to the wireless service provider as a requirement of a communications protocol governing communications between the mobile phone and the wireless service provider . Thus because a user may log in to the wireless service provider by providing the PIN alone the user as a matter of convenience or efficiency may opt to initiate contact importing from the wireless service provider to the social networking system with the mobile phone . The user may choose to log in to the wireless service provider using the mobile phone for other reasons related to for example convenience habit etc.

The contact importing module of the social networking system may include a status monitoring module a QR code module a receiving and synchronization module a friend request module and a notification module . The modules of the contact importing module are exemplary and may be variously combined into fewer modules or separated into additional modules. In an embodiment the described functionality of the modules may be performed by other modules of the social networking system apart from the contact importing module .

The notification module interacts with the status monitoring module the QR code module the receiving and synchronization module and the friend request module . The notification module manages and provides notifications for the user to inform the user about information relevant to the importation of contact information from the wireless service provider . For example the notification module may create notices for the user about the status of the contact importation process and information regarding each step in the process.

The status monitoring module may track the status of contact importing. Each step in the contact importation process may be tracked and presented for the user to keep the user apprised of progress. The steps may include for example providing a web page to the desktop computer to allow the user to initiate importing of contact information from the wireless service provider providing a QR code to the user scanning the QR code with the mobile phone to access the wireless service provider using the mobile phone to log in with the wireless service provider importing and synchronizing contact information from the wireless service provider to the social networking system and requesting new contacts to become connected with the user in her social network. Based on tracking of the status of the contact importing the status monitoring module may prompt the user to provide appropriate information and take appropriate action in the contact importing process.

The QR code module may generate a QR code for scanning with the mobile phone of the user. In an embodiment the QR code may be unique to the user. The QR code may correspond to a URL that may have an embedded reference identifying the user to the wireless service provider . When scanned by the mobile phone of the user the QR code may take the user to a page of the wireless service provider that allows the user to log in to the wireless service provider by providing appropriate credentials such as a PIN.

The receiving and synchronization module receives contact information maintained by the wireless service provider and synchronizes the contact information already maintained by the social networking system . The contact information maintained by the wireless service provider may be provided to the social networking system after successful log in by the user to her account with the wireless service provider . The contact information received by the social networking system may be compared with the contact information already maintained by it to identify new contact information. The new contact information may include the identity of new persons or entities associated with the user. The contact information maintained by the social networking system may be updated with the new contact information.

The friend request module may prepare requests to new contacts of the user to invite them to join the social network of the user. The new contacts may be determined from the new contact information. The friend request module may identify all of the new contacts of the user both persons and other entities and invite the user to select among them. The new contacts selected by the user may be provided with an invitation to join the social network of the user.

At block a request from the user is received to import the contact information using the mobile phone .

At block a QR code associated with the social networking system is provided for the user. The QR code may be associated with a URL of the social networking system that directs the user to a log in page of the wireless service provider . After the user scans the QR code with the mobile phone the user may be automatically logged in to the social networking system on the mobile phone whether or not the mobile phone was logged in before the scan. A token may be embedded in the QR code to allow the log in without provision of a password. The social networking system may also provide a notification to the user about the automatic log in. After log in to the social networking system the user is automatically redirected to a log in page of the wireless service provider . In an embodiment after the QR code is scanned the user may not be presented with a page of the social networking system before presentation of the log in page of the wireless service provider . The QR code may be uniquely associated with the user.

At block an indication that the QR code has been successfully scanned is provided for the user. Upon scanning of the QR code the social networking system may provide for the desktop computer an indication that the QR code has been scanned. The social networking system then may provide a request for the user to log in with the wireless service provider . In an embodiment the social networking system may choose whether to notify the wireless service provider that the user has accessed the log in page of the wireless service provider by scanning the QR code.

After the user scans the QR code the wireless service provider may provide to the mobile phone a request for the user to log in to the wireless service provider . In response to the request the user may enter her PIN number or other credential. After the PIN number of the user is entered and provided to the wireless service provider the wireless service provider may authenticate the user.

At block an indication that the user has logged in to the wireless service provider is received from the wireless service provider .

At block the contact information from the wireless service provider is received. The provision of contact information maintained by the wireless service provider to the social networking system may be automatic upon log in by the user without the need for the user to take any additional action.

At block the contact information from the wireless service provider is synchronized with contact information from the social networking system to identify new contact information. Synchronization may include comparing and identifying differences between the contact information maintained by the wireless service provider and the contact information already maintained by the social networking system . If the differences indicate that the contact information maintained by the social networking system in part or in whole is incomplete or out of date then the new contact information relating to the differences may be used to update the contact information maintained by the social networking system .

At block the contact information from the social networking system is updated with the new contact information. Upon updating contact information maintained by the social networking system is up to date and complete as to the contact information maintained by the wireless service provider .

At block the contact information from the wireless service provider is received. The provision of contact information maintained by the wireless service provider to the social networking system may be automatic upon log in by the user without the need for the user to take any additional action.

At block the contact information from the wireless service provider is synchronized with contact information from the social networking system to identify new contact information. Synchronization may include comparing and identifying differences between the contact information maintained by the wireless service provider and the contact information already maintained by the social networking system . If the differences indicate that the contact information maintained by the social networking system in part or in whole is incomplete or out of date then the new contact information relating to the differences may be used to update the contact information maintained by the social networking system .

At block the contact information from the social networking system is updated with the new contact information. Upon updating contact information maintained by the social networking system is up to date and complete as to the contact information maintained by the wireless service provider .

At block a request to select new contacts from the new contact information is provided for the user. The request may be provided for the user in a web page that lists the new contacts and allows the user to select contacts therefrom.

At block an indication of selected contacts is received from the user. The indication of selected contacts may be all some or none of the new contacts. The indication is a reflection of the desire of the user to invite certain contacts to join her social network.

At block an invitation to join the social network of the user is provided for the selected contacts. The invitation may be an email notice or other type of communication. The invitation may be provided within or outside the social networking system . Upon acceptance of the invitation each of the selected contacts may be joined in the social network of the user with the social networking system .

In an embodiment the process and the process may be in whole or in part performed by the social networking system or the contact importing module .

The foregoing processes and features can be implemented by a wide variety of machine and computer system architectures and in a wide variety of network and computing environments. illustrates an example of a computer system that may be used to implement one or more of the computing devices identified above. The computer system includes sets of instructions for causing the computer system to perform the processes and features discussed herein. The computer system may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server machine or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be the social networking system the user device the external system or a component thereof. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be one server among many that constitutes all or part of the social networking system .

The computer system includes a processor a cache memory and one or more executable modules and drivers stored on a computer readable medium directed to the processes and features described herein. Additionally the computer system includes a high performance input output I O bus and a standard I O bus . A host bridge couples the processor to the high performance I O bus whereas I O bus bridge couples the two buses and to each other. A system memory and one or more network interfaces couple to the bus . The computer system may further include video memory and a display device coupled to the video memory not shown . Mass storage and I O ports couple to the bus . The computer system may optionally include a keyboard and pointing device a display device or other input output devices not shown coupled to the bus . Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer hardware systems including but not limited to computer systems based on the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor.

An operating system manages and controls the operation of the computer system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft Windows operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Other implementations are possible.

The elements of the computer system are described in greater detail below. In particular the network interface provides communication between the computer system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network a backplane etc. The mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described processes and features implemented by the respective computing systems identified above whereas the system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by the processor . The I O ports may be one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to the computer system .

The computer system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of the computer system may be rearranged. For example the cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively the cache and the processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core . Furthermore certain embodiments of the invention may neither require nor include all of the above components. For example peripheral devices coupled to the standard I O bus may couple to the high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of the computer system being coupled to the single bus. Furthermore the computer system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In general the processes and features described herein may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or series of instructions referred to as programs . For example one or more programs may be used to execute specific processes described herein. The programs typically comprise one or more instructions in various memory and storage devices in the computer system which when read and executed by one or more processors cause the computer system to perform operations to execute the processes and features described herein. The processes and features described herein may be implemented in software firmware hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit or any combination thereof.

In one implementation the processes and features described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by the computer system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. The foregoing modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or machine readable medium or a combination of both. For example the modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as the processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as the mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable computer readable storage medium. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via the network interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as the mass storage into the system memory and then accessed and executed by processor .

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices solid state memories floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives magnetic media optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs other similar non transitory or transitory tangible or non tangible storage medium or any type of medium suitable for storing encoding or carrying a series of instructions for execution by the computer system to perform any one or more of the processes and features described herein.

For purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the description. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In some instances modules structures processes features and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. In other instances functional block diagrams and flow diagrams are shown to represent data and logic flows. The components of block diagrams and flow diagrams e.g. modules blocks structures devices features etc. may be variously combined separated removed reordered and replaced in a manner other than as expressly described and depicted herein.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment an embodiment other embodiments another embodiment or the like means that a particular feature design structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of for example the phrase in one embodiment in an embodiment or in another embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover whether or not there is express reference to an embodiment or the like various features are described which may be variously combined and included in some embodiments but also variously omitted in other embodiments. Similarly various features are described which may be preferences or requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The language used herein has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

