---

title: Device and method for processing notification data
abstract: A method of generating display objects comprises operating a processor to: detect an occurrence of an event; define a display time associated with a predefined duration following the occurrence of the event; generate a first display object for display for by a display device for the predefined duration, wherein the first display object is representative of the detected event; output the first display object on the display device; generate a second display object for display by a display device for the predefined duration, wherein the second display object is indicative of the display time; output the second display object on the display device; and update the second display object based on an elapsed time of the predefined duration. A device and executable computer program for performing the steps of the method is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09508161&OS=09508161&RS=09508161
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09508161
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20121218
---
Electronic devices are commonly configured so that on receipt of a communication a pop up notification is output on a display for a predefined length of time. The pop up notification often at least partially overlaps one or more selectable options output on the display prior to the output of the notification. A user of the device may read the notification and decide to continue using the device without opening the corresponding communication. However if the user dismisses the notification as it times out the user may accidentally input a selection of an option output underneath the notification.

In a first aspect there is provided a method of generating display objects. The method comprises operating a processor to a detect an occurrence of an event b define a display time associated with a predefined duration following the occurrence of the event c generate a first display object for display for by a display device for the predefined duration wherein the first display object is representative of the detected event d output the first display object on the display device e generate a second display object for display by a display device for the predefined duration wherein the second display object is indicative of the display time and f output the second display object on the display device.

In one example the method further comprises operating the processor to g update the second display object based on one of an elapsed time of the predefined duration or a progress of an animation. In one example the second display object is therefore indicative of the elapsed time and or the remaining time of the predefined duration. In a further example the second display object is indicative of the progress of an animation sequence being performed run executed by the processor. In other words the second display object is an animation.

In one example the method comprises operating the processor to repeat step g until the predefined duration has expired. In this manner the second display object is a notification for the user that the first display object will disappear without requiring a user to positively dismiss the first display object.

The display time may be one of a remaining time of the predefined duration or an elapsed time of the predefined duration.

The second display object may be output on the display device within the first display object. In this manner the second display object may appear to be a sub element of the first display object.

The processor may further operate to generate a selectable display object for display by the display device for the predefined duration and output the selectable display object on the display device.

The second display object may comprise a timer object and the processor may further operate to output the second display object on the display device such that the timer object at least partially surrounds the selectable display object.

The method may further comprise a touch sensitive input interface comprised within the display device detecting a first user input the first user input comprising a selection of the selectable display object and operating the processor responsive to detection of the first user input to cease output of the first display object and the second display object.

The processor may further operate to determine that the first user input corresponds to a first area of the display device wherein the first user input comprises one or more of a gesture a swipe a click or a selection.

The first area may correspond to an area of the display device on which the second display object is output.

The method may further comprise a touch sensitive input interface comprised within the display device detecting a second user input and operating the processor responsive to detection of the second user input to perform an operation associated with the event.

The processor may operate to determine that the second user input corresponds to a second area of the display device different to the first area wherein the second user input comprises one or more of a gesture a swipe a click or a selection.

The second area may correspond to an area of the display device on which the first display object is output.

Prior to detecting the occurrence of the event the processor may further operate to generate a third display object of information for display on the display device and output the third display object on the display device. In this manner the third display object may be output on the display device before the event occurs.

The processor may further operate to output the first display object on an area of the display device at least partly overlapping an area of the display device on which the third display object is output. For example the first display object may partially obscure the user s view of the third display object that was output on the display device prior to the occurrence of the event.

The processor may further operate to output the third display object on the display device before and after output of the first and second display objects on the display device.

In a second aspect there is provided a computer readable medium comprising executable instructions which when executed cause a processor to perform the above methods.

In a third aspect there is provided a mobile electronic device for generating display objects the device comprising a display device and a processor in communication with the display device wherein the processor is configured to detect an occurrence of an event define a display time associated with a predefined duration following the occurrence of the event generate a first display object for display for by a display device for the predefined duration wherein the first display object is representative of the detected event output the first display object on the display device generate a second display object for display by the display device for the predefined duration wherein the second display object is indicative of the display time output the second display object on the display device and update the second display object based on the elapsed time of the predefined duration.

The device may further comprise an input interface for detecting a user input wherein the processor is in communication with the input interface.

The processor may be configured responsive to detection of a first user input by the input interface to cease output of the first display object and the second display object.

The processor may be configured to determine that the first user input corresponds to a first area of the display device wherein the first user input comprises one or more of a gesture a swipe a click or a selection.

The first area may correspond to an area of the display device on which the second display object is output.

The processor may be configured responsive to detection of a second user input by the input interface to perform an operation associated with the event.

The processor may be configured to determine that the second user input corresponds to a second area of the display device different to the first area wherein the second user input comprises one or more of a gesture a swipe a click or a selection.

The second area may correspond to an area of the display device on which the first display object is output.

The device may further comprise a receiver wherein the processor is in communication with the receiver and wherein the processor is configured to detect the occurrence of an event if a communication is received by the receiver.

This disclosure below is a description of one or more exemplary embodiments which are not intended to be limiting on the scope of the appended claims.

Reference is made to which illustrates an exemplary electronic device which is usable in accordance with the disclosure below. An electronic device such as the electronic device of is configured to generate a user controllable interface on a built in display or on a remote external display device or on a built in display and on a remote external display device. In the context of this disclosure the term remote means a display screen which is not built in to the electronic device with which the electronic device communicates via a physical wired connection or via a wireless connection.

It will be appreciated that in other embodiments some of the features systems or subsystems of the electronic device discussed below with reference to may be omitted from electronic devices which are intended to perform solely operations in relation to the generation and output of display data and the modification of media content output.

In the illustrated exemplary embodiment the electronic device is a communication device and more particularly is a mobile communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. It will be appreciated that the electronic device may take other forms including any one of the forms listed below. Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in certain exemplary embodiments the electronic device is a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system such as a notebook laptop or desktop system. The electronic device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device and in some cases as a device. In the context of this disclosure the term mobile means the device is of a size or weight which makes it readily portable by a single individual e.g. of a weight less than 5 4 3 2 1 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 or 0.1 kilograms or of a volume less than 15 000 10 000 5 000 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 500 400 300 200 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 or 5 cubic centimeters. As such the device may be portable in a bag or clothing pocket.

The electronic device includes a controller including a processor such as a microprocessor which controls the operation of the electronic device . In certain electronic devices more than one processor is provided with each processor in communication with each other and configured to perform operations in parallel so that they together control the overall operation of the electronic device. The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor is communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as one or more of a display a speaker electromagnetic EM radiation source one or more input interfaces such as one or more of a camera microphone keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a navigational input device not shown a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen an orientation subsystem memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port an external video output port a near field communications NFC subsystem a short range communication subsystem a clock subsystem a battery interface and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one exemplary embodiment is the flash memory . In various exemplary embodiments the data includes service data including information used by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents presentation documents and information word processor documents and information spread sheet documents and information desktop publishing documents and information database files and information image files video files audio files internet web pages and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data may also include program application data such as functions controls and interfaces from an application such as an email application an address book application a calendar application a notepad application a presentation application a word processor application a spread sheet application a desktop publishing application a database application a media application such as a picture viewer a video player or an audio player and a web browser. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The electronic device includes a clock subsystem or module comprising a system clock configured to measure system time. In one example the system clock comprises its own alternate power source. The system clock provides an indicator of a current time value the system time represented as a year month day hour minute second milliseconds value. In other examples the clock subsystem additionally or alternatively provides an indicator of the current time value represented as a count of the number of ticks of known duration since a particular epoch.

The clock subsystem the communication subsystem the NFC subsystem the short range wireless communications subsystem and the battery interface together form a status report subsystem which is configured to provide an indicator of the operating status of the device.

The display receives display data generated by the processor such that the display displays certain application data stored as a segment of the data from the memory any of the flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM in a predetermined way on display screen not shown of the display according to the processing performed by the processor .

In certain exemplary embodiments the external video output port is integrated with the data port . The external video output port is configured to connect the electronic device via a wired connection e.g. video graphics array VGA digital visual interface DVI or high definition multimedia interface HDMI to an external or remote display device which is separate and remote from the electronic device and its display . The processor outputs external display data generated by the processor via the external video output port such that the external display device can display application data from the memory module in a predetermined way on an external display screen not shown of the external display device . The processor may also communicate the external display data to the external display device in a similar fashion over a wireless communications path.

At any given time the display data and the external display data generated by the processor may be identical or similar for a predetermined period of time but may also differ for a predetermined period of time with the processor controlling whether the display data and the external display data are identical or differ based on input from one or more of the input interfaces . In this context the word identical means that both sets of data comprise similar content so as to generate an identical or substantially similar display at substantially the same time on both the external display device and the display . In this context the word differ means that the external display data and display data are not identical this is to say that these data may but not necessarily include identical elements of data for example representative of the same application data but the external display data and display data are not wholly identical. Hence the display on both the external display device and the display are not wholly identical although similar or identical individual items of content based on the application data may be displayed on both the external display device and the display .

In at least some exemplary embodiments the electronic device includes a touchscreen which acts as both an input interface e.g. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The processor is in communication with the memory and the touch sensitive input interface to detect user input via the input interface . The processor then generates or updates display data comprising a display object for display by the display device in accordance with the user input. The processor then outputs the display data for display on the display device . In an example the user input comprises a swipe gesture across the touchscreen interface .

In at least some exemplary embodiments the touch sensitive overlay has a touch sensitive input surface which is larger than the display . For example in at least some exemplary embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend overtop of a frame not shown which surrounds the display . In such exemplary embodiments the frame not shown may be referred to as an active frame since it is capable of acting as an input interface . In at least some exemplary embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend to the sides of the electronic device .

As noted above in some exemplary embodiments the electronic device includes a communication subsystem which allows the electronic device to communicate over a wireless network . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP which is in communication with the processor . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which electronic device is intended to operate.

In at least some exemplary embodiments the electronic device communicates with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some exemplary embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the electronic device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some exemplary embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory such as a removable memory card and a memory interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In at least some exemplary embodiments the electronic device also includes a device orientation subsystem including at least one orientation sensor which is connected to the processor and which is controlled by one or a combination of a monitoring circuit and operating software. The orientation sensor detects the orientation of the device or information from which the orientation of the device can be determined such as acceleration. In some exemplary embodiments the orientation sensor is an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer. An accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output . Accelerometers may be available in one two or three axis configurations. Higher order axis configurations are also possible. Accelerometers may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer.

An orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of the electronic device . The orientation data in at least some exemplary embodiments specifies the orientation of the device relative to the gravitational field of the earth. Additionally or alternatively the orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of the device relative to known locations or fixtures in a communication network.

In some exemplary embodiments the orientation subsystem includes other orientation sensors instead of or in addition to accelerometers. For example in various exemplary embodiments the orientation subsystem may include a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensor or combinations thereof. In some exemplary embodiments the device orientation subsystem may include two or more orientation sensors such as an accelerometer and an electronic compass.

The electronic device in at least some exemplary embodiments includes a Near Field Communication NFC subsystem . The NFC subsystem is configured to communicate with other electronic devices or tags using an NFC communications protocol. NFC is a set of short range wireless technologies which typically require a distance of 4 cm or less for communications. The NFC subsystem may include an NFC chip and an NFC antenna. In such an embodiment the orientation sensor may generate data which specifies a distance between the electronic device and an NFC transceiver.

The electronic device includes a microphone or one or more speakers. In at least some exemplary embodiments an electronic device includes a plurality of speakers . For example in some exemplary embodiments the electronic device includes two or more speakers . The two or more speakers may for example be disposed in spaced relation to one another. That is in at least some exemplary embodiments the electronic device may include a first speaker and a second speaker and the first speaker and the second speaker may be spatially separated from one another within the electronic device . In at least some exemplary embodiments the display may be disposed between the first speaker and the second speaker of the electronic device. In such exemplary embodiments the first speaker may be located at one side of the display and the second speaker may be located at another side of the display which is opposite the side of the display where the first speaker is located. For example the first speaker may be disposed at a left side of the display and the second speaker may be disposed at a right side of the display.

In at least some exemplary embodiments each speaker is associated with a separate audio channel. The multiple speakers may for example be used to provide stereophonic sound which may also be referred to as stereo .

The electronic device may also include one or more cameras . The one or more cameras may be capable of capturing images in the form of still photographs or motion video.

In at least some exemplary embodiments the electronic device includes a front facing camera . A front facing camera is a camera which is generally located on a front face of the electronic device . The front face is typically the face on which a display is mounted. That is the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of the electronic device where the camera is directed. The front facing camera may be located anywhere on the front surface of the electronic device for example the camera may be located above or below the display . The camera may be a fixed position camera which is not movable relative to the display of the electronic device or the housing of the electronic device . In such exemplary embodiments the direction of capture of the camera is always predictable relative to the display or the housing. In at least some exemplary embodiments the camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face.

In at least some exemplary embodiments the electronic device includes an electromagnetic EM radiation source . In at least some exemplary embodiments the EM radiation source is configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the side of the electronic device which is associated with a camera of that electronic device . For example where the camera is a front facing camera the electronic device may be configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the front face of the electronic device . That is in at least some exemplary embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source is configured to emit radiation in a direction which may visible by the camera. That is the camera and the electromagnetic radiation source may be disposed on the electronic device so that electromagnetic radiation emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source is visible in images detected by the camera.

In some exemplary embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source is an infrared IR radiation source which is configured to emit infrared radiation. In at least some exemplary embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source may be configured to emit radiation which is not part of the visible spectrum. The camera may be a camera which is configured to capture radiation of the type emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source . Accordingly in at least some exemplary embodiments the camera is configured to capture at least some electromagnetic radiation which is not in the visible spectrum.

In some exemplary embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The electronic device includes a short range communication subsystem which provides for wireless communication between the electronic device and other electronic devices . In at least some exemplary embodiments the short range communication subsystem is a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

Any one or more of the communication subsystem the NFC subsystem and the short range wireless communications subsystem serves as a communication subsystem which is configured to provide an indicator of an incoming message being received by the electronic device . The incoming message may be an email a message received via a social networking website an SMS short message service message or a telephone call for example.

The electronic device is in some exemplary embodiments a mobile communication device which may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the electronic device can compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications such as a media player module . In the exemplary embodiment of the media player module is implemented as a stand alone application . However in other exemplary embodiments the presentation module could be implemented as part of the operating system or other applications .

As discussed above electronic devices which are configured to perform operations in relation to a communications log may take a variety of forms. In at least some exemplary embodiments one or more of the electronic devices which are configured to perform operations in relation to the presentation module are a smart phone or a tablet computer.

Referring now to a front view of an exemplary electronic device which in one example may be a smartphone is illustrated. The smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the smartphone may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

The smartphone includes all of the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The smartphone includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the exemplary embodiment the smartphone includes a display which may be a touchscreen which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the smartphone so that it is viewable at a front side of the smartphone . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the smartphone. In the exemplary embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example smartphone also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the example illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at a front side of the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a speaker . In the exemplary embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a single speaker which is disposed vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The speaker may be disposed on the front face of the smartphone .

While the example smartphone of includes a single speaker in other exemplary embodiments the smartphone may include a greater number of speakers . For example in at least some exemplary embodiments the smartphone may include a second speaker which is disposed vertically below the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width i.e. the orientation illustrated in .

The example smartphone also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the smartphone is held in the portrait orientation. The microphone and at least one speaker may be arranged so that the microphone is in close proximity to a user s mouth and the speaker is in close proximity to a user s ear when the user holds the phone to their face to converse on the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the smartphone .

The example smartphone also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the smartphone . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the smartphone . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images detected by the camera .

Referring now to a front view of an example electronic device which in one example may be a tablet computer is illustrated. The tablet computer may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The tablet computer includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

The tablet computer includes a display which may be a touchscreen which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the tablet computer so that it is viewable at a front side of the tablet computer . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the tablet computer . In the exemplary embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

A frame surrounds the display . The frame is portion of the housing which provides a border around the display . In at least some exemplary embodiments the frame is an active frame . That is the frame has a touch sensitive overlay which allows the electronic device to detect a touch applied to the frame thus allowing the frame to act as an input interface .

The exemplary tablet computer includes a plurality of speakers . In the exemplary embodiment illustrated the tablet includes two speakers . The two speakers are disposed on opposing sides of the display . More particularly when the tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation such as the orientation illustrated in where its width is longer than its height one of the two speakers is disposed on a right side of the display and one of the speakers is disposed on the left side of the display .

The exemplary tablet computer also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the tablet computer is held in the landscape orientation illustrated in . The microphone may be located in other locations in other exemplary embodiments.

The exemplary tablet computer also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation i.e. the orientation of . The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the tablet computer .

The example tablet computer also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the tablet computer . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the tablet computer . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images detected by the camera .

The tablet computer may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the tablet computer.

The electronic device which may be tablet computer is usable by an end user to send and receive communications using electronic communication services supported by a service provider.

The end user of an electronic device may send and receive communications with different entities using different electronic communication services. Those services may or may not be accessible using one or more particular electronic devices. For example a communication source of an end user s text messages sent and received by an end user using a particular electronic device having a particular memory module such as a USIM may be accessible using that device but those text messages may not be accessible using another device having a different memory module. Other electronic communication sources such as a web based email account may be accessible via a web site using a browser on any internet enabled electronic device.

Servers and are also connected to the communications network and one or more of them may individually or together support electronic communications services available to end users of electronic devices and enabling them to send and receive electronic communications. Servers and may be web servers or communications servers such as email servers.

Other servers and services may of course be provided allowing users of electronic devices and to send and receive electronic communications by for example Voice over IP phone calls video IP calls video chat group video chat blogs file transfers instant messaging and feeds.

Wireless network may also support electronic communications without using communications network . For example a user of smart phone may use wireless network to make telephony calls video calls send text messages send multimedia messages and send instant messages to smart phone and to display application data on a display screen of the external display device or control the display of application data.

The example shown in is intended to be non limiting and additional network infrastructure may of course be provided such as a Public Switched Telephone Network not shown which may be used for example to make telephony calls using smartphone to a wired phone not shown .

At block the processor outputs one or more display objects on the display . The display objects may correspond to one or more processes or applications being executed by the processor . One or more of the display objects may be a display object corresponding to a selectable option referred to as a selectable display object in the following. Responsive to detection of a user input selecting a selectable display object the processor performs an operation or action associated with the selectable display object.

For example a selectable display object may be representative of an application installed on the device . In this case responsive to detection of a user input selecting the selectable display object the processor opens or runs the application i.e. begins execution of the instructions associated with the application .

As is known in the art a display object corresponding to a process may be maximized so that no other display objects are visible. For example if the processor is executing a process causing output of an image the image may be viewed using the full screen thereby preventing any further display objects from being simultaneously viewed. Alternatively it may be possible to view multiple display objects simultaneously on the display . These multiple display objects may be connected with the operation of a single given process or application which is being executed or performed by the processor . Additionally one or more display objects may be displayed so as to partially overlay other display objects thereby obscuring the view of the other display objects.

In exemplary embodiments depicted in the display objects are displayed over a background image or screen saver .

At block the processor detects the occurrence of an event. The event may be any change in the status of the device a device or network to which the device is connected or one or more processes being executed on the device .

For example the processor may determine that an event has occurred if the charge of the battery falls below a predefined threshold if a connection to a network a device or a power source is successfully established if the device is disconnected from a network a device or a power source if an error occurs in a process being executed by the processor if execution of a process by the processor is completed if an amount of available memory space reaches a predefined threshold if a message e.g. email text multimedia or SMS message is received by the device over the communications network if a voice call arrives or is detected by the device or if any other occurrence is detected by the processor . The detection of the event may take place immediately as soon as the event occurs or very shortly e.g. less than 5 4 3 2 or 1 s after its occurrence.

In the exemplary embodiments of the processor detects that an event has occurred when a voice communication e.g. call data communication or data message is received by the communication subsystem or arrives at the device . In an exemplary embodiment the processor detects that an event has occurred when the communication subsystem provides an indicator of an incoming message being received by the device . For example the incoming message may be an email a message received via a social networking website an SMS short message service message a telephone call or any other type of incoming message.

At block the processor defines a display time associated with a predefined duration following the occurrence of the event. The predefined duration may be any length of time associated with the occurrence of the event or a process associated with the event. In an exemplary embodiment in which the event is the receipt of an email the processor may define the predefined duration in accordance with a pre set duration assigned by an email messaging application. Additionally or alternatively the processor may define and or store the predefined duration in accordance with an input by a user of the device or by any other suitable means. Thus the fixed time may be configurable by the user and stored within the device .

Similarly the display time may be any length of time associated with the predefined duration. For example the processor may define the display time to be one or other of a remaining time of the predefined duration or an elapsed time of the predefined duration.

At block the processor generates a first display object for display by the display for the predefined duration. Generation of the first display object may for example comprise the processor generating display data comprising a first display object representative of or associated with the detected event.

The first display object may be any suitable display object for outputting an indication or notification that the processor has detected an occurrence of the event. For example if the event is an incoming telephone call being received by the device the first display object may comprise a symbol such as a telephone that is indicative that an incoming call is being received. Additionally or alternatively the first display object may be information such as an image or text identifying the caller making the incoming call.

In the exemplary embodiments of in which the event is the communications subsystem providing an indication that an email has been received by the device the first display object is a message notification comprising text representative of or comprised within the email message. It will be appreciated that the first display object may also comprise an envelope symbol a mailbox symbol or any other graphic that is indicative that an email has been received by the device . Additionally or alternatively the display object may comprise information such as the sender of the email the size of the email whether the email comprises attachments the subject line of the email or any other information related to the email message.

At block the processor generates a second display object for display by the display for the predefined duration. The second display object is indicative or representative of the display time. For example the second display object may comprise one or more of a timer object formed from an outline or filled in shape of an arrow text an egg timer symbol a circle square rectangle ellipse alphabetic text character or characters or other shape or a number of these elements grouped together as a display object.

As with the first display object the processor may generate the second display object by generating display data comprising the display object.

At block the processor outputs the second display object on the display . The processor may output the second display object on the display within the first display object . Additionally or alternatively the processor may output the second display object so that it surrounds or partially surrounds one or more selectable display objects on the display .

In the exemplary embodiments depicted in the second display object includes at least a circular icon or symbol output on the display such that the circular icon is displayed within or partially overlapping the first display object . In particular in the depicted example the circular icon is output so that it surrounds a selectable display object . In this example the selectable display object comprises an X icon the selection of which causes the processor to close or dismiss the message notification and the display objects associated therewith.

In an exemplary embodiment the second display object comprises an outline which may be filled in shaded in coloured in or obscured with respect to the background over time representing an elapsed time in relation to predefined duration. In the exemplary embodiments of filling the colour on the circular icon is indicative of the elapsed or remaining display time. In particular in this example at block the display time is defined to equate to a remaining time of the predefined duration. The fill colour of the circular icon indicates the remaining display time of the predefined duration. Or in other words the amount of time that the first and second display objects will continue to be displayed assuming no other event is detected before ceasing to be displayed. This is because the visible portion of the icon that is filled in or which is distinctively coloured e.g. dark coloured vis vis the surrounding background or outline of the shape corresponds or is in proportion to the remaining portion of the predefined duration. In this regard the proportion which corresponds to the remaining portion can correlate directly to the filled or distinctively coloured portion of the second display object which may include the extent of fill or colouring around the circumference of the display object or of the whole area of the display object . In it is the extent of fill around the circumference of the circular icon which is representative of the remaining portion or elapsed portion of the predefined duration.

It will be appreciated that the output depicted in may also correspond to an exemplary embodiment in which at block the display time is defined to be the elapsed time of the predefined duration. In a general sense it is thus the unfilled or light coloured portion of the second display object which corresponds to the display time.

At block the processor updates the second display object based on an elapsed time of the predefined duration. In an exemplary embodiment updating the second display object comprises the processor determining the elapsed time of the predefined duration. This determination may be made by any suitable means. For example the processor may obtain an indicator of the time value at which the event occurred the event time from the clock subsystem . When updating the second display object the processor may obtain an indicator of the current time value from the clock subsystem . The processor then determines the elapsed time of the predefined duration by comparing the current time value to the event time.

The processor may update the second display object by any suitable means to indicate the elapsed time of the predefined portion. In an exemplary embodiment the second display object has one or more visual parameters associated with it which can be varied in accordance with the elapsed time of the predefined duration. For example the visual parameters may comprise one or more of brightness colour contrast opacity frequency amplitude speed or the number or thickness of a plurality of lines e.g. hatching . The processor may update the second display object by changing modifying varying one or more of these parameters so as to indicate one or both of the elapsed time and a progress of an animation. In one example the one or more parameters are changed modified varied in proportion to the elapsed time. The one or more parameters may additionally or alternatively be changed modified varied in proportion to progress of an animation being executed run output by the processor.

In the exemplary embodiments depicted in updating the second display object comprises updating the visual parameters of the second display object to modify the portion of the circular icon that is filled in or dark coloured or alternatively modifying the portion of the circular icon that is light coloured to reflect the remaining or elapsed portion of the predefined duration.

In an exemplary embodiment the processor repeats the step of updating the second display object at predefined intervals until the processor determines that the predefined duration has expired.

On determining that the predefined duration has expired the processor closes times out or ceases output of the first and second display objects and any other display objects displayed within or in association or conjunction with the first and second display objects. Processing then reverts to block at which the display objects that output on the display prior to the detection of the event are again output on the display . In the exemplary embodiments of the output on the display screen reverts to the output depicted in and

At block the processor detects a first user input via the input interface . The input may comprise any suitable input for issuing a command to the processor via the input interface . For example the input interface may comprise the touchscreen in which case the electronic device may be referred to as a multi touch device . The input detected by the touchscreen interface may comprise any suitable user touch based input. For example the input may comprise a gesture input such as a tap a multi tap a long press a swipe or scroll or slide a pan a flick a multi swipe a multi finger tap a multi finger scroll or swipe a pinch a two hand pinch a spread a two hand spread a rotation a two hand rotation a slide and rotation a multi direction slide a multi finger slide and rotation a multi finger slide etc. It will be appreciated that the gesture input may comprise a sequence of input elements or stages performed within a specified or predetermined time frame for example a three tap gesture in which each tap comprises an element or a sub input a phase or a stage of the input and the three taps are performed within a time frame that enables the processor to detect the taps as elements of a single input. Additionally or alternatively an input may comprise removing a point of contact e.g. a finger or stylus from the touchscreen interface.

Although many examples described herein refer to a gesture detected by a touch sensitive display other methods of gesture detection may be utilized. For example a gesture may be a generalized trajectory description characterized as a sequence of 3D points in time and as such many different sensors may be utilized to detect such a gesture. The gesture may be performed by moving a portable electronic device or moving one or more body parts such as fingers or thumbs as a 3D spatial gesture. For example sensors such as an accelerometer gyroscope or proximity sensors or time of flight cameras may detect such gestures. Gesture recognition and detection techniques of this type are known.

An accelerometer or gyroscope may be utilized to detect 3D spatial gestures. A sequence of acceleration values may be detected in the different spatial dimensions as a function of time and constitute trajectory information that can be recognized as a gesture. For example a quick flick or tilt of the portable electronic device are examples of detectable gestures. A 3D spatial gesture includes a continuous movement a sequence of movements and a series of continuous movements or sequences of movements. Proximity sensors optical sensors and or cameras may be utilized to detect 3D spatial gestures comprising motion of objects spaced from the device.

A gesture input is different to input of a command by manipulation of a control component presented on the screen because a gesture input can be performed at any location within the display screen or a large area of the display screen in contrast to a single contact point for a user finger or input stylus on a corresponding control element. In order to input a command using a control component the user must contact the screen at a specific location corresponding to that component. For example in order to change an output volume using a volume control the user must select the volume control by touching the location at which the volume control is displayed and moving the displayed control element by a desired amount through movement of the user s finger across the screen. Such user input must therefore be precisely controlled in order to use control elements to input commands. Gesture based inputs on the other hand do not require the same precise control as they are not tied to a specific display object on the screen but may instead correspond to an area or sub area of the screen.

In an exemplary embodiment the processor detects the first user input via the input interface and determines that the first user input corresponds to a first area of the display . For example the first user input may comprise one or more of a gesture or a swipe across the area of the display on which the second display object is output. Additionally or alternatively the first user input may comprise a selection of a selectable display object option or icon that is at least partially surrounded by or adjacent to the area of the display on which the second display object is displayed. In the exemplary embodiments of the first user input comprises a selection of the X icon made by tapping the area of the display on which the X icon is displayed.

It will be appreciated that without an indication of the elapse time the user may miss time selection of the X icon just as the notification is about to disappear. As such if the input is on or after expiration of the predefined duration for displaying the message notification the user input will instead result in selection of an option corresponding to a selectable display object currently output on the display in the area in which the X icon was previously output. Responsive to this selection the processor will then execute a process or perform an action corresponding to the selected option even though this action is not required by the user.

The execution of an unnecessary process in this manner results in inefficient use of both the processor and the memory of the device . This is because processing and memory resources are assigned to the newly selected process. This waste of resources is further compounded by the fact that execution of a process cannot usually be ceased immediately. Accordingly even if the user immediately selects to end the process processing and memory resources will not be released until such time as the processor safely ceases execution of the process. Forcing the processor to cease execution of a process before it is safe to do so may result in delays and an increase in required resources the next time the process is executed as verification of the process may be required before its execution.

Further inefficiencies may arise if the option mistakenly selected by the user corresponds to a process that cannot currently be executed by the processor . For example if the user inadvertently inputs a selection of a web application when the device cannot connect to the communications network e.g. Internet e.g. whilst the user is out of range of the network e.g. travelling on a subway or underground train the processor will repeatedly try to establish a connection with the communications network until the application can be successfully closed. In this case not only are the processing resources inefficiently used but battery power will also be quickly depleted.

However the generation and output of the second display object prevents the accidental selection of a display object other than the intended display object. This is because the second display object provides an indication of the remaining time for which the notification will be displayed thereby notifying the user of whether selection of the notification will time out or close in which case an attempted selection of the X icon will result in selection of an underlying display object.

In particular the second display object may be output on the display so as to surround or partially surround the X icon. Accordingly the circular icon is clearly visible to a user selecting the X icon thereby ensuring that the user is notified of the remaining display time before inputting a selection of the X icon. In this way a user may determine that the display time is nearly finished and the user can elect not to select the X icon. Instead the user allows the predetermined time to expire such that the first and second display objects cease to be displayed without requiring user interaction. The second display object is notification for the user that the first display object will disappear without requiring a user to positively dismiss the first display object . This is particularly advantageous in devices which have a plurality of different notification messages some of which are modal meaning that user input is required to dismiss the notification and others which are non modal meaning that the user can continue to interact with the underlying user interface without first dismissing the notification.

In the illustrated example the circular icon is output on the display so as to surround the X icon . Accordingly if a user inputs an instruction to close the notification by selecting the X icon e.g. via touchscreen or other input device such as a pointing device the processor detects that an input corresponding to an area within or comprising the area on which the circular icon is displayed. Responsive to this detection the processor then ceases output of the message notification in which case processing returns to block .

At block the processor is operated responsive to detection of the first user input to cease output of the first and second display objects. In the exemplary embodiment of responsive to detection of the first user input the processor closes the message notification and all the display objects displayed within or in association or conjunction with the message notification by ceasing to output them on the display .

Processing then reverts to block at which the display objects output on the display prior to the detection of the event are again output on the display . In the exemplary embodiments of the output on the display screen reverts to the output depicted in and

At block the processor detects a second user input via the input interface . As discussed above in relation to the first user input the second user input may comprise any suitable input for issuing a command to the processor via the input interface .

In an exemplary embodiment the processor detects the second user input via the input interface and determines that the second user input corresponds to a second area of the display . For example the second user input may comprise one or more of a gesture or a swipe across the area of the display on which the first display object is output. Additionally or alternatively the second user input may comprise one or more of a click or a selection within the area of the display on which the first display object is displayed.

In the exemplary embodiments of the event is the detection of an indicator from the communications subsystem that an email message has been received by the device . In this example the first display object is a message symbol comprising text related to the received email message and the second user input comprises one or more of a gesture or a swipe across the area of the display on which the message symbol is displayed. Additionally or alternatively the second user input may comprise one or more of a click a tap or a multi tap input in the area of the display on which the message symbol is displayed.

At block the processor is operated responsive to detection of the second user input to perform an action. In the above exemplary embodiment in which the event is the receipt of an email message responsive to detection of the second user input the processor causes the email application to open the received email message so that the received email message is displayed across all or part of the display . The user can then read the content of the received email message.

In a further exemplary embodiment the event is the detection of an error in execution of a process by the processor and the first display object comprises a single line error message. In this case responsive to detection of one or more of a gesture a swipe or a tap within the area of the display on which the error message is displayed the processor opens the application corresponding to the process in question.

As discussed in relation to block if the user attempts to input a second input after expiration of the predefined duration for displaying the message notification the user input will instead result in selection of an option corresponding to a selectable display object currently output on the display in the area in which the message notification was previously output. Responsive to this selection the processor will then execute a process or perform an action corresponding to the selected option even though this action is not required by the user.

However once again the generation and output of the second display object prevents the accidental selection of a display object other than the intended display object. This is because the second display object provides an indication of the remaining time for which the notification will be displayed thereby notifying the user of whether the notification is about to time out in which case an attempted selection of the message notification will result in selection of an underlying display object.

It will be appreciated that the foregoing discussion relates to exemplary embodiments. However in other embodiments the order in which steps are performed may be changed or one or more of the described steps may be omitted.

