---

title: Systems, methods and devices for analyzing drilling fluid
abstract: System, methods and devices for analyzing drilling fluids are presented herein. A fluid analysis system for determining at least one characteristic of a drilling fluid is disclosed. The system includes a pump and two reversible fluid ports each configured, when in a first state, to intake drilling fluid into the fluid analysis system and, when in a second state, to expel drilling fluid from the fluid analysis system. A valve fluidly couples the reversible fluid ports to the pump. The valve controls the respective states of the reversible fluid ports. At least one measurement module is fluidly coupled to the pump to receive drilling fluid therefrom. The at least one measurement module is configured to determine at least one characteristic of the drilling fluid. Filters can be fluidly coupled with each of the reversible fluid ports. The filters prevent solids of a predetermined size from entering the fluid analysis system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09134291&OS=09134291&RS=09134291
owner: Halliburton Energy Services, Inc.
number: 09134291
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120126
---
The present disclosure relates generally to the drilling of boreholes for example during hydrocarbon exploration and excavation. More particularly the present disclosure relates to systems methods and devices for monitoring and analyzing drilling fluid.

Boreholes which are also commonly referred to as wellbores and drill holes are created for a variety of purposes including exploratory drilling for locating underground deposits of different natural resources mining operations for extracting such deposits and construction projects for installing underground utilities. A common misconception is that all boreholes are vertically aligned with the drilling rig however many applications require the drilling of boreholes with vertically deviated and horizontal geometries. A well known technique employed for drilling horizontal vertically deviated and other complex boreholes is directional drilling. Directional drilling is generally typified as a process of boring a hole which is characterized in that the course of the borehole in the earth is in a direction other than vertical i.e. the axes make an angle with the vertical plane known as vertical deviation and are directed in the azimuth plane.

Conventional directional boring techniques traditionally operate from a boring device that pushes or steers a series of connected drill pipes with a directable drill bit at the distal end thereof to achieve the borehole geometry. In the exploration and recovery of subsurface hydrocarbon deposits such as petroleum and natural gas the directional borehole is typically drilled with a rotatable drill bit that is attached to one end of a bottom hole assembly or BHA. A steerable BHA can include for example a positive displacement motor PDM or mud motor drill collars reamers shocks and underreaming tools to enlarge the wellbore. A stabilizer may be attached to the BHA to control the bending of the BHA to direct the bit in the desired direction inclination and azimuth . The BHA in turn is attached to the bottom of a tubing assembly often comprising jointed pipe or relatively flexible spoolable tubing also known as coiled tubing. This directional drilling system i.e. the operatively interconnected tubing drill bit and BHA is usually referred to as a drill string. When jointed pipe is utilized in the drill string the drill bit can be rotated by rotating the jointed pipe from the surface or through the operation of the mud motor contained in the BHA. In contrast drill strings which employ coiled tubing generally rotate the drill bit via the mud motor in the BHA.

Drilling fluid is often used to aid the drilling of boreholes into the earth for example to remove cuttings from the borehole control formation pressure and cool lubricate and support the bit and drilling assembly. Typically the drilling fluid which is more commonly referred to as mud is pumped down the borehole through the interior of the drill string out through nozzles in the end of the bit and then upwardly in the annulus between the drill string and the wall of the borehole. During the ascent some of the mud congeals forming a cake on the exposed face of the wellbore for example to prevent the mud from being lost to the porous drilled formation. In addition the pressure inside the formation can be partially or fully counterbalanced by the hydrostatic weight of the mud column in the hole. Since the mud has a variety of vital drilling functions it must accordingly have comparable and reliable capabilities.

Many drilling parameters such as measured depth string rotary speed weight on bit downhole torque surface torque flow in surface pressure down hole pressure bit orientation bit deflection etc. can be made available in real time. However many drilling fluid properties which can be critical to effective hydraulic modeling and hole cleaning performance are not readily available in real time. Historically a technician or mud engineer was required to perform a mud check once or twice every 12 hours and report the measurement data every 24 hours. These measurements may include density rheology electrical stability filtration control retort analysis solids oil water ratio acidity ph salinity and particle size distribution. This practice is accepted throughout the drilling industry nevertheless there are significant benefits to having the key mud properties tested and reported at multiple intervals designated by the operator. The on site mud engineer for example typically has numerous other responsibilities in his her daily routine and therefore cannot provide a constant stream of drilling fluid properties to a monitoring center such as a remote real time center. In addition taking and or generating such measurements are time consuming and inherently susceptible to human error. Automated mud measuring eliminates these drawbacks.

There are many systems available for measuring some of the characteristics of drilling mud. Sampling drilling fluid for instrumentation measurements however has many problems. Most drilling fluids are designed to plug small holes in the formation and are therefore heavily laden with solids. Moreover the characteristics of the drilling fluid are constantly changing due to additions of solids and chemicals that make drawing a representative sample difficult. Partially suspended solids and partially dispersed chemicals can form pliable lumps that can plug sampling equipment. If left static the solids in the drilling fluid tend to settle and plug small diameter tubing valves pumps and other fluid handling equipment.

There are various types of liquid based drilling fluids 1 water based muds WBM which typically comprise a water and clay based composition 2 oil based muds OBM where the base fluid is a petroleum product such as diesel fuel and 3 synthetic based muds SBM where the base fluid is a synthetic oil. In many cases oil based drilling fluids also have water or brine dispersed in the oil in significant proportions. In the course of drilling a well a water based fluid is often used in one section of the borehole while an oil based fluid will be used in a different section of the borehole. Switching between fluid types is fraught with problems for the sampling system and instrumentation because a thick sludge can form where the two fluid types come in contact with each other which can plug flow passages. In addition the drilling fluid sampling equipment and measurement instrumentation is frequently located in areas of a drilling rig with a high potential of being surrounded by high concentrations of flammable gases and fluids. As such anything capable of generating a spark in normal operation or under fault conditions must be packaged to prevent ignition of the surrounding environment.

Aspects of this disclosure are directed to Automated Mud Measuring Equipment AMME for measuring desired drilling fluid properties. In some embodiments the AMME includes a sample supply system a conditioning system and one or more measurement modules. The measurement modules each make one or more measurements of the different drilling fluid properties. The measurement modules are connected to the sample supply system with a master module controlling the flow. The AMME can take real time measurements which can provide up to date density and rheology data to predict accurate drilling hydraulics and its impact on drilling operations.

While drilling much effort is expended to maximize Rate of Penetration ROP to minimize drilling cost. Oftentimes computational models are used to determine the ROP limits.

Thus current and accurate density and rheology of the fluid being pumped down hole is typically required to maximize the ROP and to have confidence in the resultant recommendations. In the above example data from the AMME can be sent to a database such as the Sperry Drilling Services INSITE database and data management service available from Halliburton. From there the data can be processed in a Real time Operations Center ROC by a hydraulics modeling software simulator like the DFG Software with DrillAhead Hydraulics Module also available from Halliburton. The results can then be analyzed to make ROP and other operational recommendations to the rig such as drill pipe rotational speed RPM drilling fluid pump rate fluid formulation additions e.g. changes to the drilling fluid composition such as adding weight material to increase the mud density or adding emulsifier oil and brine to adjust the oil water ratio etc.

Other opportunities are possible for this real time concept of fluid management. Computational models like those generated by the DFG DrillAhead Hydraulics Module can predict ahead of the drill bit for example anticipating the Equivalent Circulation Density ECD e.g. the increase in bottomhole pressure expressed as an increase in pressure that occurs when the mud is being circulated. Such predictions may include cuttings loading in the mud and its effect on the ECD mud temperature throughout the wellbore the circulating pressure drop swab and surge pressures as the drill string is removed from or returned to the wellbore estimated time required to completely remove drilled cuttings from the wellbore how accumulated cuttings beds will affect ECD etc. This allows operators to make changes to drilling procedures and the drilling fluid properties in anticipation of the coming requirements.

A similar approach can be utilized for problem zone management. A problem zone is a portion of the wellbore trajectory that may be difficult to drill for example because of the type of formation the pore pressure of fluids in the formation abruptly higher or lower a formation that has fractures of rock cavities or vugs which may cause some of the mud to flow into the formation lost circulation a formation that changes when exposed to the drilling fluid e.g. swelling clays and or a weak formation that will be easily cracked by high ECD. A problem zone may exist and be expected at some depth while drilling. Since the current properties of the drilling fluid are known in real time and the properties that will be needed to drill the upcoming problem strata can be established computational Artificial Neural Network ANN algorithms for example can be used to anticipate the fluid requirements in terms of product additions and conditioning such that when the trouble zone depth is reached the fluid is already in place and being pumped seamlessly.

In another embodiment multiple AMME measurements can be used to characterize other well site process efficiencies. For instance electrical stability ES may be used to determine additions control of the drilling fluid system. That is if ES is measured at the flow line as it comes from the well bore it can be analyzed possibly using ANNs to determine how the ES has changed since it was pumped down the wellbore. The ANN could then determine what if any product treatments or other additions must be added before and or after the solids control part of the process. The treatments of additions may be manually or automatically accomplished. In addition to determining additions control the ES may be used to determine solids control efficiency. Solids control efficiency can be a comparison of the ES measured after the cuttings entrained mud comes out of the well and again after the cuttings are removed from the mud which may give an indication of the efficiency of the removal process. In this case the ES is measured in multiple locations and the differences from one location to the other can define the proper treatments and efficiencies of the processes. In addition to ES other real time RT measurements could be used in the process. As each component is included in the analysis a greater understanding of the drilling fluid properties is achieved providing essential data for drilling optimization.

According to aspects of the present disclosure a fluid analysis system for determining at least one characteristic of a drilling fluid is presented. The fluid analysis system includes a pump first and second reversible fluid ports a valve and at least one measurement module. Each reversible fluid port is configured when in a first state to intake drilling fluid into the fluid analysis system and when in a second state to expel drilling fluid from the fluid analysis system. The valve fluidly couples the first and second reversible fluid ports to the pump. The valve is configured to control the respective states of the reversible fluid ports. The at least one measurement module is fluidly coupled to the pump to receive drilling fluid therefrom. The at least one measurement module is configured to determine at least one characteristic of the received drilling fluid.

Other aspects of the present disclosure are directed to a fluid analysis system for determining one or more characteristics of a drilling fluid. The fluid analysis system includes a pump configured to move drilling fluid through the analysis system. The fluid analysis system also includes first and second reversible fluid ports each of which is configured to switch between an intake and an outlet state. The reversible fluid ports are configured to intake a sample of the drilling fluid when in the intake state and to expel the sample of drilling fluid when in the outlet state. A first filter is fluidly coupled with the first reversible fluid port while a second filter is fluidly coupled with the second reversible fluid port. A flow reversal valve fluidly couples the first and second reversible fluid ports to the pump. The flow reversal valve is configured to selectively change the respective states of the first and second reversible fluid ports between the intake and outlet states. A controller is operatively connected to and configured to control the flow reversal valve and the pump. A plurality of measurement modules is fluidly coupled e.g. in parallel to the pump and the flow reversal valve. Each measurement module is configured to measure a respective characteristic of the drilling fluid and output a signal indicative thereof.

In accordance with other aspects a method of operating a drilling fluid monitoring and analysis system is also featured. The method includes inter alia drawing a sample of drilling fluid into the analysis system via a first reversible fluid port of the drilling fluid analysis system determining via a measurement module of the drilling fluid analysis system at least one characteristic of the drilling fluid sample generating via the measurement module a signal indicative of the at least one characteristic reversing the first reversible fluid port from an intake state to an outlet state such that drilling fluid is expelled therefrom and reversing a second reversible fluid port from an outlet state to an intake state such that the second reversible fluid port draws drilling fluid into the analysis system.

The above summary is not intended to represent each embodiment or every aspect of the present disclosure. Rather the foregoing summary merely provides an exemplification of some of the novel aspects and features set forth herein. The above features and advantages and other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be readily apparent from the following detailed description of the exemplary embodiments and modes for carrying out the present invention when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings and appended claims.

While the present disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. It should be understood however that the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the disclosure is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

While this invention is susceptible of embodiment in many different forms there are shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail embodiments of the invention with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the broad aspects of the invention to the embodiments illustrated. To that extent elements and limitations that are disclosed for example in the Abstract Summary and Detailed Description sections but not explicitly set forth in the claims should not be incorporated into the claims singly or collectively by implication inference or otherwise. For purposes of the present detailed description unless specifically disclaimed the singular includes the plural and vice versa unless specifically disclaimed the words and and or shall be both conjunctive and disjunctive unless specifically disclaimed the word all means any and all the word any means any and all and the word including means including without limitation. Moreover words of approximation such as about almost substantially approximately and the like can be used herein in the sense of at near or nearly at or within 3 5 of or within acceptable manufacturing tolerances or any logical combination thereof for example.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to like components throughout the several views illustrates an exemplary directional drilling system designated generally as in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure. Many of the disclosed concepts are discussed with reference to drilling operations for the exploration and or recovery of subsurface hydrocarbon deposits such as petroleum and natural gas. However the disclosed concepts are not so limited and can be applied to other drilling operations. To that end the aspects of the present disclosure are not necessarily limited to the arrangement and components presented in . For example many of the features and aspects presented herein can be applied in horizontal drilling applications and vertical drilling applications without departing from the intended scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition it should be understood that the drawings are not necessarily to scale and are provided purely for descriptive purposes thus the individual and relative dimensions and orientations presented in the drawings are not to be considered limiting. Additional information relating to directional drilling systems can be found for example in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2010 0259415 A1 to Michael Strachan et al. which is entitled Method and System for Predicting Performance of a Drilling System Having Multiple Cutting Structures and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The directional drilling system exemplified in includes a tower or derrick as it is most commonly referred to in the art that is buttressed by a derrick floor . The derrick floor supports a rotary table that is driven at a desired rotational speed for example via a chain drive system through operation of a prime mover not shown . The rotary table in turn provides the necessary rotational force to a drill string . The drill string which includes a drill pipe section extends downwardly from the rotary table into a directional borehole . As illustrated in the Figures the borehole may travel along a multi dimensional path or trajectory. The three dimensional direction of the bottom of the borehole of is represented by a pointing vector .

A drill bit is attached to the distal downhole end of the drill string . When rotated e.g. via the rotary table the drill bit operates to break up and generally disintegrate the geological formation . The drill string is coupled to a drawworks hoisting apparatus for example via a kelly joint swivel and line through a pulley system not shown . The drawworks may comprise various components including a drum one or more motors a reduction gear a main brake and an auxiliary brake. During a drilling operation the drawworks can be operated in some embodiments to control the weight on bit and the rate of penetration of the drill string into the borehole . The operation of a drawworks is generally known and is thus not described in detail herein.

During drilling operations a suitable drilling fluid commonly referred to in the art as mud can be circulated under pressure out from a mud pit and into the borehole through the drill string by a hydraulic mud pump . The drilling fluid may comprise for example water based muds WBM oil based muds OBM synthetic based muds SBM as well as gaseous drilling fluids singly and in any logical combination. Drilling fluid passes from the mud pump into the drill string via a fluid conduit commonly referred to as a mud line and the kelly joint . Drilling fluid is discharged at the borehole bottom through a nozzle or other opening in the drill bit and circulates in an uphole direction towards the surface through an annular space between the drill string and the side of the borehole . As the drilling fluid approaches the rotary table it is discharged via a return line into the mud pit . A variety of surface sensors which are appropriately deployed on the surface of the borehole operate alone or in conjunction with downhole sensors deployed within the borehole to provide information about various drilling related parameters such as fluid flow rate weight on bit hook load etc. some of which will be explained in further detail below.

A surface control unit may receive signals from surface and downhole sensors and devices via a sensor or transducer which can be placed on the fluid line . The surface control unit can be operable to process such signals according to programmed instructions provided to surface control unit . Surface control unit may present to an operator desired drilling parameters and other information via one or more output devices such as a display a computer monitor speakers lights etc. which may be used by the operator to control the drilling operations. Surface control unit may contain a computer memory for storing data a data recorder and other known and hereinafter developed peripherals. Surface control unit may also include models and may process data according to programmed instructions and respond to user commands entered through a suitable input device which may be in the nature of a keyboard touchscreen microphone mouse joystick etc.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure the rotatable drill bit is attached at a distal end of a steerable drilling bottom hole assembly BHA . In the illustrated embodiment the BHA is coupled between the drill bit and the drill pipe section of the drill string . The BHA may comprise a Measurement While Drilling MWD System designated generally at in with various sensors to provide information about the formation and downhole drilling parameters. The MWD sensors in the BHA may include but are not limited to a device for measuring the formation resistivity near the drill bit a gamma ray device for measuring the formation gamma ray intensity devices for determining the inclination and azimuth of the drill string and pressure sensors for measuring drilling fluid pressure downhole. The MWD may also include additional alternative sensing devices for measuring shock vibration torque telemetry etc. The above noted devices may transmit data to a downhole transmitter which in turn transmits the data uphole to the surface control unit . In some embodiments the BHA may also include a Logging While Drilling LWD System.

In some embodiments a mud pulse telemetry technique may be used to communicate data from downhole sensors and devices during drilling operations. Exemplary methods and apparatuses for mud pulse telemetry are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 106 210 B2 to Christopher A. Golla et al. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Other known methods of telemetry which may be used without departing from the intended scope of this disclosure include electromagnetic telemetry acoustic telemetry and wired drill pipe telemetry among others.

A transducer can be placed in the mud supply line to detect the mud pulses responsive to the data transmitted by the downhole transmitter . The transducer in turn generates electrical signals for example in response to the mud pressure variations and transmits such signals to the surface control unit . Alternatively other telemetry techniques such as electromagnetic and or acoustic techniques or any other suitable techniques known or hereinafter developed may be utilized. By way of example hard wired drill pipe may be used to communicate between the surface and downhole devices. In another example combinations of the techniques described may be used. As illustrated in a surface transmitter receiver communicates with downhole tools using for example any of the transmission techniques described such as a mud pulse telemetry technique. This can enable two way communication between the surface control unit and the downhole tools described below.

According to aspects of this disclosure the BHA provides the requisite force for the bit to break through the formation known as weight on bit and provide the necessary directional control for drilling the borehole . In the embodiments illustrated in the BHA may comprise a drilling motor and first and second longitudinally spaced stabilizers and . At least one of the stabilizers may be an adjustable stabilizer that is operable to assist in controlling the direction of the borehole . Optional radially adjustable stabilizers may be used in the BHA of the steerable directional drilling system to adjust the angle of the BHA with respect to the axis of the borehole . A radially adjustable stabilizer provides a wider range of directional adjustability than is available with a conventional fixed diameter stabilizer. This adjustability may save substantial rig time by allowing the BHA to be adjusted downhole instead of tripping out for changes. However even a radially adjustable stabilizer provides only a limited range of directional adjustments. Additional information regarding adjustable stabilizers and their use in directional drilling systems can be found in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0031023 A1 to Clive D. Menezes et al. which is entitled Borehole Drilling Apparatus Systems and Methods and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

As shown in the embodiment of the distance between the drill bit and the first stabilizer designated as L can be a factor in determining the bend characteristics of the BHA . Similarly the distance between the first stabilizer and the second stabilizer designated as L can be another factor in determining the bend characteristics of the BHA . The deflection at the drill bit of the BHA is a nonlinear function of the distance L such that relatively small changes in Lmay significantly alter the bending characteristics of the BHA . With radially movable stabilizer blades a dropping or building angle for example A or B can be induced at bit with the stabilizer at position P. By axially moving stabilizer from P to P the deflection at bit can be increased from A to A or B to B . A stabilizer having both axial and radial adjustment may substantially extend the range of directional adjustment thereby saving the time necessary to change out the BHA to a different configuration. In some embodiments the stabilizer may be axially movable. The position and adjustment of the second stabilizer adds additional flexibility in adjusting the BHA to achieve the desired bend of the BHA to achieve the desired borehole curvature and direction. As such the second stabilizer may have the same functionality as the first stabilizer . While shown in two dimensions proper adjustment of stabilizer blades may also provide three dimensional turning of BHA .

Turning now to a representative drilling fluid monitoring and analysis system designated generally as is shown in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure. As developed in further detail below the monitoring system is operable to monitor measure analyze or otherwise determine one or more characteristics of a drilling fluid including completion fluids pills spotting fluids etc. For effective hydraulic modeling and hole cleaning performance some of the most important mud properties include singly or collectively and without limitation viscosity and density at a known temperature base fluid type e.g. water brine oil oil to water ratio salinity of the water phase the average specific gravity of the solids ASG and volume percent solids. Other mud properties could include the temperature of the mud going down hole and returning at the flow line. It may be ideal in some embodiments for the viscosity of the mud to be measured at a series of elevated temperatures and pressures that represents the conditions in the well at several different depths. It may also be desirable to monitor the surface ambient conditions. Additional characteristics that can be measured and or monitored include for example chloride content carbonate concentration acidity ph pressurized density pressurized mud balance alkalinity filtrate volume sand content sulfide concentration retort analysis etc.

A fluid sample can be drawn from any desired point in the drilling system. In the illustrated embodiment for example the sample is taken from the active mud pit or mud tank where the drilling fluid is drawn for example via mud pump into a well such as the borehole illustrated in . It should be readily understood that the fluid samples can be taken at one or more additional alternative locations of the drilling system without departing from the intended scope of the present disclosure. To keep solids entrained in the drilling fluid from settling the mud pit may be agitated or stirred for example by an agitator system which is represented herein by one or more blades that are driven by a geared motor mounted on top of the mud tank . A number of non limiting examples of mud agitators are available from Dynamix Agitators Inc. of Richmond British Columbia Canada.

Sample suction and discharge ports and respectively include openings located below the surface of the mud pool but far enough from the bottom of the mud pit to avoid solids that intrinsically accumulate on the bottom of the pit . The suction and discharge ports also respectively referred to herein as inlet and outlet ports or first and second reversible fluid ports may be temporally or permanently attached to the mud pit to avoid inadvertent engagement with the agitator. In some optional configurations the monitoring system includes multiple suction and or discharge ports which may be distributed in a manner similar to what is shown in or alternatively may be fluidly coupled to other sections of the mud tank or other portions of the drilling system.

According to some embodiments each of the ports includes a respective filter and configured to prevent large solids for example solids with a major dimension of approximately 0.5 mm or greater or in some embodiments 0.8 mm or greater from entering the monitoring system . By way of non limiting example the first and second filters can include wire wound screens and respectively such as the triangular shaped wire screens shown in . In this vein each filtration layer can be made up of precisely spaced wires e.g. spaced approximately 0.8 mm that are wrapped over and welded to one or more support or rib wires e.g. to form a uniform gap. The exterior wires may be arranged so that the outer surface of the wire forms a smooth cylindrical screen over the rib wires. It is desirable in at least some embodiments for the wrapping wires to be strong enough to withstand internal and or external operational pressures typically in the nature of at least approximately psi and in some embodiments approximately 12 16 psi on the suction side and at least approximately 100 psi and in some embodiments approximately 85 115psi internally on the discharge side. Appropriate caps and on the upper and or lower ends of the cylindrical screen respectively are configured to prevent solids from bypassing the screens and in some embodiments provide attachment points for fluid conduits e.g. flow tubing . Flow is into or out of the interior of each cylindrical screen through the gaps in the screen wires. Alternative configurations may include other filter designs e.g. other types of surface and depth filters or wire screens with different shapes and patterns.

During normal operation solids will eventually build up on the face of the filter being used for suction e.g. first filter partially plugging off the current fluid inlet port which is the suction port in the embodiment of . To minimize or otherwise prevent this type of occurrence the monitoring system is operable to switch to one or more new inlet ports. In the illustrated embodiment for example a valve which is controlled by a master module fluidly couples the suction and discharge ports to a fluid pump . The pump is configured to draw the drilling fluid into and move it through the fluid analysis system . In the illustrated embodiment an air operated diaphragm pump is employed however other pump mechanisms could also be used. Depending for example on the intended application diaphragm pumps have an advantage because the flow pressure is limited to the pressure of the air supply e.g. 100 psi and diaphragm pumps can handle fluids entrained with relatively large solids. To limit suction pressure drop the pump can be located as close as practical to the suction and discharge ports .

The valve is selectively operable to switch the flow direction of the drilling fluid into and out of the monitoring system . In the illustrated embodiment for example each of the fluid ports is reversible i.e. configured to switch from a first intake state to a second outlet state and back. When in the intake state each port is configured to intake a sample stream of the drilling fluid . Conversely when in the outlet state each port is configured to expel the sample stream of the drilling fluid from the monitoring system . It is desirable in at least those embodiments with only two ports that only one of the ports be in the intake state outlet state at any given time. The valve is configured to control the respective states of the reversible fluid ports . As illustrated the valve includes a flow reversal valve assembly which may take on various forms including plug valves ball valves pinch valves etc. Simply put the valve changes which one of the ports is coupled downstream from the pump to draw fluid into the system and which one of the ports is coupled upstream from the pump to expel fluid into the system . In so doing the suction port can be changed to a discharge port and back while the discharge port is changed to a suction port and back. The flow of drilling fluid out of a port through a respective filter alone or in combination with agitation in the mud pit e.g. via blades the smooth surface of the exterior of the cylindrical screen and or bursts of pressurized air in the return flow from measurement instrument cleaning or a pneumatic device such as dedicated jets operates to clear buildup off of the face of the filter screen. Regularly switching the flow direction of drilling fluid through the monitoring system prevents most solids from building up to the point of stopping flow. Switching can be periodic and or in response to flow pressure drop.

In some implementations the monitoring system includes one or more conditioning devices each of which is configured to modify and in some embodiments measure at least one property of the drilling fluid . By way of non limiting example a temperature conditioning heat exchanger is incorporated in the system of . The heat exchanger is configured to modify the inlet temperature of the drilling fluid sample stream taken into the fluid analysis system . As shown the heat exchanger is located upstream from the pump in the flow of drilling fluid after the discharge of the pump . Optionally or alternatively the conditioning device may include other conditioning features such as a pressurizing device e.g. a booster pump to minimize any entrained bubbles or gas effects configured to increase the inlet pressure of the drilling fluid taken into the fluid analysis system . Other optional configurations may include a conditioning device configured to dilute and or mix the fluid sample. Certain implementations require the sample drilling fluid be conditioned prior to analysis because testing specifications may require the sample be at a particular temperature and or pressure when taking measurements e.g. viscosity or density are taken. In many drilling scenarios the drilling fluid in the mud pit may be too hot or too cold to meet testing specs without the conditioning device s a considerable amount of time would be wasted waiting for the fluid samples to naturally realize requisite measurement temperatures within the measurement module.

After leaving the optional conditioning device s the drilling fluid sample flows to one or more measurement modules which are represented in by first second and nth modules and respectively. Although three measurement modules are shown four when including the master module any number of modules may be incorporated into the monitoring system . The master module and measurement modules are fluidly coupled to the pump and in some optional configurations the conditioning device to receive drilling fluid therefrom. The master and measurement modules of are shown connected in parallel however it is envisioned that one or more of the modules be connected in series. Each of the measurement modules and in some embodiments the master module is configured to measure monitor analyze or otherwise determine at least one characteristic of the received drilling fluid . The modules of are each fluidly coupled to both the supply line and the return line . In some implementations a continuous or substantially continuous stream of drilling fluid is pumped past the modules through a bypass in the master module and back to the sample source e.g. mud pit via the valve . In some applications all or a part of the sample flow can pass through a particular module or a combination thereof. The modules may take make measurements that require the mud be heated pressurized diluted or otherwise conditioned before taking measurements. This can be handled as a batch process where a sample is drawn conditioned measured and expelled. This cycle can be repeated as required. In some configurations the sample used in testing may not be returned to the fluid system but may be directed to a waste container. For example if a test required extensive dilution or special chemicals it may be advisable to discard the sample.

In testing scenarios where a measurement can be made for example at ambient sample conditions the fluid sample may flow through one or more of the modules in series. By way of clarification and not limitation series connections of the measurement modules are generally most suitable when the drilling fluid is not changed by the measurement e.g. there is no significant pressure drop dilution or contamination caused by passage of the mud through the measurement module . An example of such a measurement is the ambient density measurement in the Real Time Density and Viscosity RTDV module which will be developed further below.

The monitoring system may be located in areas with a high potential of being exposed to flammable gases and fluids. Each of the modules may therefore incorporate a protection system and or a suitable enclosure and respectively to permit operation in flammable atmospheres and for protection from exposure to flammable elements. Flammable atmosphere protection can be provided by an air and or nitrogen purged enclosure or an explosion proof enclosure designed to industry accepted standards for such hazards. Some such standards are available from organizations like the National Fire Protection Association NFPA and Det Norske Veritas DNV . For a purged enclosure a sheet metal box can be employed which includes an access door with seals. Standardized boxes of this type are available from the National Electrical Manufacturers Association NEMA . By way of non limiting example the enclosure can be in the nature of a Wiegmann SSN4362012 Enclosure Stainless Steel NEMA Type 4 with a height of approximately 36 in a width of approximately 30 in and a depth of approximately 12 in.

In some embodiments each module is supplied with at least approximately 100 psi clean air and in some embodiments approximately 90 110 psi for example from a common air supply . Each enclosure and may also include connections that provide pressurized water or base oil as needed. A power source can provide each module with electrical power to suit its particular requirements. Each module can also be equipped with a means and respectively of digital communications. Typically this would include a wired or wireless Ethernet connection. Alternative means of communication are also envisioned. Several serial and parallel communications protocols can be used. An example would be the serial RS 485 standard. When the communications take place in a hazardous environment such as those described above it may be desirable for the communication devices to also meet hazardous environment safety regulations.

One of the key factors in module reliability is keeping the sample flow path clean. Each of the modules may therefore be provided with air injection ports and respectively for introducing pressurized air into and thereby cleaning the drilling fluid flow passages of the module. Air injection provides a highly turbulent agitation that helps re suspend settled solids and move them toward the sample return line . Air is also compatible with most types of drilling fluids and does not form a sludge that will plug the apparatus. Automatic and or manual air injection can also be used to flush drilling fluid and settled fluids from the modules during normal automatic operation prior to long term shutdowns and or between drilling fluid types. When needed the infusion of air can be followed by circulating a suitable cleaning fluid through the entire system by means of the system pump . This process can be manual or automated. Each air injector can be protected by a redundant back flow check valve and or other means to prevent flow of the drilling fluid into the air supply if the air supply pressure drops below the sample pressure.

The master module includes one or more controllers such as the National Instruments cRIO 9012 to control the valve the pump and the measurement modules . The controller s may be operable to provide additional functions. By way of example complex algorithms such as Herschel Bulkley formulas for rheology modeling can be stored in a memory device and implemented by the controller s the results can then be transmitted e.g. via cabling or wireless signal to the user via a user interface or host data server such as personal computing device or other system with for example a display screen server audio speakers etc. The measurement data from the modules can be comprised of multiple variables from a single instrument as well as multiple variables from multiple instruments a single variable per instrument etc. Measurements such as time temperature shear stress breakdown voltage etc. are packaged with a common markup language such as XML which allows the data to be easily transmitted to users on the drilling rig or at remote locations such as a Real time Operations Center ROC . Also the computer provides for the further packaging of the XML transmissions into other languages such as the newest WITSML standard. This provides for a direct data exchange to a WITSML server allowing the instrument to by pass data acquisition systems.

Each of the modules can be provided with alarm and fault reporting capabilities. The electrical power source and air supply may be subject to occasional interruptions. As an optional protective measure one or more of the modules can be provided with a fault detection sensor and respectively configured to detect the occurrence of a fault event e.g. an inadvertent lapse in power and in some embodiments operate e.g. with the master module to safely shutdown the monitoring system in a way that protects the system hardware. Where appropriate when interrupted services are restored one or more of the modules may be operable to independently restart itself without user intervention to minimize data loss. When external communications are interrupted data is stored e.g. in memory device for future transmission or retrieval. In some embodiment one or more of the modules is configured to measure a characteristic of drilling fluids at elevated temperature and pressures.

With continuing reference to the master module may be configured to measure the rheology e.g. viscosity shear rate and density kg m of the drilling fluid sample in addition to controlling the sample flow through the monitoring system . The master module is also operable to control the flow of air to the diaphragm pump and or to the flow reversal valve . In some embodiments the master module allows a continuous flow of the fluid sample to pass therethrough and can selectively divert or otherwise distribute fluid to the other modules . To provide sufficient pressure for the upstream measurement modules the flow e.g. through the bypass can be stopped at the master module when needed. This can raise the pressure in the sample supply line to near the diaphragm pump air supply pressure e.g. about 80 psi. This provides sufficient pressure to push the sample drilling fluid into the measurement module requiring a sample.

According to some embodiments the master module is a Real time Density and Viscosity RTDV device designated generally as in available from Halliburton which is a fully automated measurement unit designed to measure the density and rheological properties of a drilling fluid per API standards. The unit is designed to reside at a drilling rig location e.g. skid or wall mounted and is continuously or periodically supplied with drilling fluid from the sample supply system. Measurements can be performed at an average frequency of 1 test per 20 minutes and data can be collected for example via the Sperry Drilling Services INSITE database and data management service also available from Halliburton. The system allows for customizable sorting of the data and viewing via INSITE . As seen in drilling fluid enters the RTDV through a fluid in connection and flows through internal fluid conduits e.g. stainless steel tubing to a pneumatic 2 way inlet valve . The inlet valve is normally in the open position allowing the fluid sample to flow to other sections of the tubing . Closing of the inlet valve is typically performed when multiple measurement modules e.g. measurement modules of are in use and the multiple modules share a common fluid supply line e.g. supply line . By closing inlet valve the flow of drilling fluid is effectively stopped from entering the RTDV and the full fluid flow is forced to the previous modules in the supply line.

Under normal flow conditions the sample drilling fluid flows through the inlet valve and is blocked from entering the viscosity flow loop portion of the RTDV via a pneumatic 2 way intermediate valve . Valve position is normally closed. This diverts the sample drilling fluid into the tubing section which contains a density transducer which may be in the nature of an L Dens Density Sensor with an accuracy of at least approximately 1 10g cm available from Anton Paar. After measurements are taken by the density transducer the fluid sample eventually exits the RTDV via a fluid out connection to the return flow line e.g. return line of . In particular the flow of the fluid continues past the density transducer and enters a pneumatic 3 way outlet valve . Valve is normally positioned such that the fluid in the viscosity flow loop is blocked and fluid flow for the density flow loop is allowed to pass through the outlet valve and exit the RTDV through the fluid out connection .

In some embodiments an optional throttled bypass around the density transducer allows a major portion of the flow to bypass minimizing transducer wear and the pressure drop through the density transducer . As the fluid flows through the density transducer the density and the temperature of the drilling fluid sample are measured and the data is recorded in the RTDV e.g. via controller and memory device . When operating in this manor density measurements are typically performed at the temperature of the sample provided via the supply system. In an optional implementation the density transducer can be located in the viscosity flow loop which can use a batch process to heat and pressurize the fluid sample to predetermined conditions. Density measurements at pressures above ambient can reduce measurement errors caused by entrainment of gas bubbles in the sample. In some cases it may be desirable to incorporate density transducers in both locations.

Turning now to to perform rheology measurements the flow of the drilling fluid sample is diverted from the density flow loop into a secondary tubing loop that can be isolated and pressurized. This secondary loop is considered the viscosity flow loop and includes a viscometer which may be in the nature of a modified TT 100 In Line Viscometer available from Brookfield Engineering Laboratories Inc. Additional information regarding the operation of and the aforementioned modifications to a Brookfield TT 100 Viscometer is presented for example by Robert Murphy and Dale Jamison in Viscometer Modifications to Improve Accuracy and Performance in Real time Field Applications which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Diversion of the fluid sample into this viscosity flow loop is accomplished through the actuation of intermediate valve into an open position as seen in allowing fluid flow therethrough. Concurrently the 3 way outlet valve is pneumatically actuated such that flow from the density flow loop is diverted and fluid flow from the viscosity flow loop is allowed to enter outlet valve and exit the RTDV through the fluid out connection . As the drilling fluid sample flows through the viscosity flow loop the viscometer measurement chamber is filled with a fresh sample of the drilling fluid . Optionally a predefined or user defined time period in which the fluid is diverted through the viscosity flow loop can be input and or adjusted through an RTDV computer interface not shown . In at least some embodiments after the user defined time for fluid flow through the viscosity flow loop has expired the fluid flow reverts to the density flow loop .

Once the fluid flow has reverted to the density flow loop the sample drilling fluid which remains in the measurement chamber is effectively isolated within the viscosity flow loop . The fluid sample within the measurement chamber is then pressurized e.g. to greater than approximately psi to collapse any entrained air bubbles that may be present within the sample. The pressurized sample can then be agitated within the measurement chamber while the temperature of the sample is adjusted to a user defined setting e.g. approximately 120 F. 150 F. . Heating of the fluid sample can be accomplished by the use of dual 100 watt cartridge heaters which reside within an aluminum block. The aluminum block can saddle the measurement chamber and allows heat transfer from the cartridge heaters to the measurement chamber . Heating of the measurement chamber provides heat transfer to the fluid sample within. Once a predefined or user defined fluid sample temperature is obtained a measure of the fluid s shear stress is taken for example at six 6 various rpm points. Standard rpm points are determined by the American Petroleum Institute API as 600 300 200 100 6 and 3 revolutions per minute. Since the measurement geometry of the API type concentric cylinder rheometer is different from that used in the Brookfield TT 100 the actual measurement rpm can be adjusted to give the equivalent shear rate.

After one or more rheology measurements have been made the fluid flow path is again diverted from the density flow loop into the viscosity flow loop . A burst of pressurized air from a pneumatic system can be injected into the measurement chamber e.g. for 1 5 seconds to help expel the sample and break loose any buildup of solids from the sample . Introduction of a fresh sample into the viscosity flow loop will operate to flush the previous fluid sample from the measurement chamber . After the viscometer is filled with a new drilling fluid sample the above process can be repeated.

The measurement modules can individually or collectively take on various different formats designs and configurations to measure any one or more of a multitude of fluid characteristics. By way of non limiting example the first measurement module may be a Real Time Emulsion Stability Tester REST Measurement Module which measures the electrical stability of the drilling fluid. Additional information regarding exemplary configurations and operations of REST modules may be found in U.S. Pat. No. 6 906 535 B2 to Robert J. Murphy Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 701 229 B2 to Robert J. Murphy Jr. et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 830 161 B2 to Robert J. Murphy each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its respective entirety. The REST module provides repeatable and accurate electrical stability measurements. The testing interval can be for example about 3 6 minutes depending for example on the number of test types being run. Results can include in some non limiting examples the ES break energy current wave form analysis and the delayed measurement analysis.

In another example the second measurement module can be in the nature of a Real Time Filtrate RTFT Measurement Module. Additional information regarding an exemplary configuration and operation of an RTFT Measurement Module can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 721 612 B2 to Dale E. Jamison which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. An RTFT Measurement Module can measure fluid loss spurt fluid loss and or filter cake thickness properties. The measurements can be done with a ceramic filter medium and or a paper medium option. The testing interval can vary from about 2 to 4 hours. The lengthy intervals are usually due to the heat up and cool down times.

Other measurement module options include Real Time Retort RTRT Measurement Modules which measure the percent oil water and or solids of the drilling fluid and particle size distribution modules which measure the sizes and relative quantities of the various particles in the drilling fluid sample. The measurements of particle size are typically limited to particles larger than one micron and smaller than about 1000 microns. The master module can be in some embodiments is preferably a measurement module that is built similar to one or more of the measurement modules .

Drilling fluid property measurement procedures and equipment have long been specified by the American Petroleum Institute API and various other organizations. Two exemplary API regulations include API RP 13B 1 Recommended Practice for Field Testing Water based Drilling Fluids and RP 13B 2 Recommended Practice for Field Testing Oil based Drilling Fluids both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their respective entireties. To be easily integrated into existing operating methods it may be desirable for the automatic property measurements to closely mimic manual measurement methods. In many cases this requires control of the temperature and pressure conditions when measurements are taken. For example the Rheology of the drilling fluid is usually measured at 120 F. for water based fluids and 150 F. for oil based fluids.

While particular embodiments and applications of the present disclosure have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the present disclosure is not limited to the precise construction and compositions disclosed herein and that various modifications changes and variations can be apparent from the foregoing descriptions without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

