---

title: Sharing digital libraries
abstract: In some implementations, a first user associated with a first user account may send a request to exchange digital libraries with a second user associated with a second user account. Upon acceptance, the second user receives first library information associated with the first user account that identifies content items that may be accessed by the second user due to the exchange. Similarly, the first user receives second library information associated with the second user account that identifies second content items that may be accessed by the first user. In other examples, a user may access the digital library of a selected person or entity, such as a historical figure, celebrity, author, friend, or organization. Additionally, in some cases, a user may view content of a content item that a selected person is currently reading, and which may include annotations made to the content item by the selected person.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495551&OS=09495551&RS=09495551
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09495551
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120925
---
The continued proliferation of digital content items has led to an increase in the availability of such content as well as an increase in the availability of electronic devices and applications used for consuming these content items. For instance users consume content items such as electronic books eBooks digital videos digital songs digital images and the like on an assortment of electronic devices. As the number of content items and devices for consuming content items continues to increase users are ever more interested in enhancing their experiences and gaining knowledge while consuming these content items. For instance a user s experience may be enhanced by being able to access collections of content items that have been acquired by others which for example may expose a user to new content items that may be of interest to the user.

This disclosure includes techniques and arrangements for enabling sharing or exchanging of a digital content item library. For example a first user of an electronic device may want to access a digital library of a second user or exchange libraries with the second user. Accordingly in some cases the first user may send a request to the second user as an invitation to facilitate the exchanging of permission to access the digital content libraries. If the second user accepts the request the first user may have access to the digital library of the second user and the second user may have access to the digital library of the first user. For example the first user may view download and consume digital content items that are contained in the library of the second user and the second user may download and consume digital content items that are contained in the library of the first user. In some cases constraints may be placed on the library exchange and or the access to the content items in the other user s library. For example the exchange may be permitted to extend for a limited period of time or may be limited to specified amount of content particular types of content items and so forth. Furthermore during the exchange the first user may be denied access to the first user s library and the second user may be denied access to the second user s library.

In some implementations a user may browse access and view content items contained in a library of another person such as an historical figure a celebrity an author or the like. For instance a user may select a library of a particular person or entity to browse such as for a fee or as part of a promotion. Thus if the user accesses the library of a celebrity the user may be presented with library information that displays the contents of the celebrity s library. For example a user may be able to download view read or otherwise consume content items contained in the library of the celebrity such up to a predetermined quantity of content or for a paid duration. Furthermore in some examples annotations made by the celebrity such as personal notes highlights comments recommendations reviews or other annotations to a content item may be included in the content items made available to be viewed by the user that has obtained access to the library of the celebrity.

Additionally in some examples the user may be able to view a content item that is currently being read or otherwise consumed by a celebrity author educator or other particular person. For example the user may view a page of a book that the particular person is currently reading and may further view any personal annotations comments or the like that the particular person has made in the content item. In some examples the user may view a percentage of the content item for free and without purchasing the content item. After the user has consumed a certain amount of the content item e.g. a number of pages a percentage of the total content or the like the user may be offered the opportunity to purchase full access to the content item in order to continue to view or consume additional parts of the content item.

For discussion purposes some example implementations are described in the environment of sharing or providing access to a digital library of digital content items. However the implementations herein are not limited to the particular examples provided and may be extended to other types of content items collections of content items and other interface configurations as will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein.

In the illustrated example a plurality of electronic devices such as electronic devices . . . may communicate with a content provider to access or receive at least one content item over one or more networks . For example the network s may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any combination thereof and may include both wired and wireless communication technologies using any suitable protocols and communication techniques. Each electronic device may communicate over network s with one or more computing devices of the content provider . For example the electronic devices and the one or more computing devices may communicate and interact with one another using any combination of suitable communication and networking protocols such as Internet protocol IP transmission control protocol TCP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP and so forth. In some cases the electronic device may download the content item while in other cases the content item may be streamed to the electronic device . Additionally in some examples the electronic devices may communicate with each other over the network s .

The content provider may maintain an online location such as a merchant website an e commerce site or other functionality that offers one or more content items to the public. Alternatively the content provider may provide the content item or make the content item available to one or more electronic devices through online or mobile applications executing on the electronic devices .

In some cases the content item may be a book or electronic book eBook including one or more pages of text. For example the electronic device may present the text of an eBook and any images illustrations tables maps graphic elements or embedded multimedia content that might be contained in the eBook. The terms book and or eBook as used herein may broadly include electronic or digital representations of printed works as well as digital content that may include text multimedia hypertext and or hypermedia. Examples of content items may include but are not limited to electronic versions of books magazines newspapers periodicals journals reference materials textbooks anthologies instruction manuals proceedings of meetings forms directories web pages plays screen plays closed captioning transcripts of movies and television shows song lyrics and so forth as well as other types of content items including text that the user may view or interact with using the electronic device . Accordingly a content item may include any readable or viewable textual content that is in electronic or digital form. Additionally some implementations herein are not limited to digital text items but may also include other types of content items such as digital audio e.g. music audible books etc. digital video e.g. movies television short clips etc. images e.g. art photographs etc. interactive content multi media content games applications and so forth.

The content items of a user may be included in a user library which identifies the contents to which the particular user has access. For example a user may have purchased borrowed bartered for licensed or otherwise acquired access to the content items contained in the user s library . In the illustrated example a first user is associated with a first electronic device that includes a first user library that includes one or more content items . Similarly a second user is associated with a second electronic device that includes a second user library that includes one or more content items . In some examples some or all of the content items contained in a user library may have been downloaded and stored on the user s electronic device while in other examples some or all of the content items may be maintained at the content provider such as in a content provider library or at another location. For instance in some examples a user may only have purchased the rights to stream a content item or may only store a limited number of content items on the electronic device such as due to limited storage capacity or the like. Thus in some implementations the library may include a data structure that represents the content items to which the user has acquired the right of access such as the right to view read play or otherwise consume the content items regardless of whether the content items themselves are stored on the device or elsewhere.

Each content item may include content such as text images multimedia etc. and may further include metadata that is associated with the content . For example the content provider an author or a publisher may provide or may generate at least a portion of metadata for a corresponding content item . Furthermore in some examples the metadata may include information added by a user such as highlights notes bookmarks or other annotations made by the user to a corresponding content item . The metadata may also include a record of the user s consumption progress through the content item the last page accessed furthest point reached and the like. Each content item may be made up of any number of files or may be a single file. For example the content may be stored on the electronic device as one or more files that are separate from one or more files including the metadata . Alternatively however in other examples the content and the metadata may be stored as a single file.

When the user of the electronic device purchases or otherwise acquires a right to access a particular content item such as through interaction with the content provider the content provider may make the particular content item including the content and the metadata available for delivery to the electronic device . The content provider may also add a record to the user s library indicating that the user has the right to access the particular content item . Accordingly in some examples the library may include a data structure or other collection of data indicating or identifying one or more content items to which the user has acquired a right to access which may include any of downloading streaming or otherwise viewing or consuming the contents thereof. Additionally in some implementations the content provider may provide a content item not already received by a user device to an intermediary such as a wireless network provider not shown or the like that in turn provides the content item to a particular electronic device . For purposes of this disclosure providing or making available by the content provider may include any intermediaries that perform delivery of the content items and associated metadata.

In some examples the electronic device may include an interaction module and a presentation module . In this example the electronic device includes interaction module and presentation module while the electronic device includes interaction module and presentation module . In some cases the interaction module and the presentation module may be separate modules applications or programs. For example the interaction module may be a web browser that interacts with other entities over a network and the presentation module may be a media player or reader application that presents the content items . However in other cases the interaction module and the presentation module may both be part of a single module application or program such as in the case of an application that interacts with the content provider and that also presents content items to a user on a display associated with the electronic device . For example the electronic device may have a display associated therewith and the electronic device may have a display associated therewith.

The content provider may maintain user information that may include a plurality of user accounts corresponding to the users such as a first user account corresponding to the first user and a second user account corresponding to the second user . Each user account may include user data and library information . For example the first user account may include user data that contains data relevant to the first user and library information that includes at least the identity of content items in the first user s library . Similarly the second user account may include user data corresponding to the second user and library information that includes at least the identity of content items in the second user s library. Examples of user data may include a user s name an ID number email address other contact information a purchase history and so forth.

In some examples the content provider may include a management module that may manage and facilitate a virtual trade exchange or swap between the first user s library and the second user s library . For instance suppose that the first user and the second user agree to exchange permission to access their libraries such as for a limited period of time e.g. 12 hours 24 hours two days or other period of time or until a certain amount of content has been consumed or according to any other suitable arrangement. The first user and or the second user may interact with the content provider to arrange the exchange such as using a user interface as discussed additionally below. In response to the users agreeing to the exchange the management module of the content provider may send library information to the first user s device and library information to the second user s device . For example library information may include at least a portion of the library information of the second user maintained in the second user account . Similarly the library information may include at least a portion of the library information of the first user maintained in the first user account .

Upon receiving the library information the electronic device may present the library information on the display of the electronic device . Accordingly the first user may view the library information that displays representations of one or more content items contained in the second user s library . For example the user may wish to read or otherwise consume one or more of the content items contained in the second user s library . In some cases the first user may select one or more of the content items in the second user s library such as a content item and may download or otherwise access the selected content item

Similarly the second user may view the library information that discloses the identity of some or all of the content items included in the first user s library . Accordingly the second user may select one or more of the content items included in the first user s library such as a content item to access download stream view read or otherwise consume the content item

The content provider may maintain permission information that identifies content items that each user is permitted to access. For example the permission information may include the library information and . For instance the library information may list content items from the first user s library that the second user has permission to access as a result of the exchange of permission to access. As one example the library information may list all of the content items in the first user s overall library information except those content items that the first user has identified as not to be shared or which are prohibited from being shared by the publisher or content provider. Similarly the library information stored in the permission information and sent to the first user may include a list of content items that the first user is permitted to access as a result of the exchange of permission to access. Thus the content provider may determine from the permission information that the first user or a device associated with the first user account is permitted to access a content item identified in the second library information for the duration of the exchange and is not permitted to access a content item identified in the first library information . Based on the permission information the management module may instruct the presentation module on the first user device that content items associated with the library information may not be accessed while the exchange of permission to access is in effect.

In addition in some cases certain content items may be prohibited from being included in an exchange by the author the publisher or the content provider . For example the permission information may identify any such content items that might be included in the library information . The management module may either remove these content items from the library information or in response to a request to access one of these content items may inform the user that the author publisher content provider prohibits swapping of these content items.

Depending on the particular implementation the users may be limited as to an amount of content of each other s libraries that they may consume and or limited by a time duration over which the libraries may be exchanged. Additionally in some examples the users may not be able to access the entire content of any single content item included in the other user s library. For example the users may be limited to 20 percent 30 percent 50 percent or the like of any particular content item that they access through the other user s library. Thus when the user reaches a maximum percentage of a particular content item the user may be invited to purchase the particular content item for the user s own library such as at a discount. Similarly when the library exchange ends the user may be invited to purchase any content item accessed or browsed during the exchange also possibly at a discount.

Furthermore in some examples the users may not have access to their own libraries for the duration of the exchange or may not have access to at least the portions of their libraries that are included in the exchange. For example the library information may include instructions from the management module to control access to the libraries on each of the devices . For example the management module may instruct the presentation module on each device to restrict or prohibit access to the content items included in the user s own library while the library exchange is in effect. Furthermore after the library exchange is terminated the management module may instruct the interaction module on each device to remove from the device any content items that may have been downloaded as part of the library exchange. Accordingly the interaction module may remove the content item from the first electronic device after the exchange terminates. Similarly the interaction module may remove the content item from the second electronic device after the exchange terminates.

In addition it may occur that one of the users wishes to terminate the library exchange early such as in the case that the user needs access to one of the content items in the user library. Accordingly a control or interface may be provided to enable the library exchange to be terminated early. For example suppose the first user terminates the library exchange early on the first device . In some cases the second user may continue to access a first user s library on the second device until the agreed upon time duration or consumption quantity is reached. In other cases the access of the second user to the first user s library may also be terminated.

The exchange may be managed on a user account bases a user bases and or a device bases. Thus in some examples the exchange maybe controlled based on particular user accounts . For example the first library information may be associated with the first user account and the second library information may be associated with the second user account . Thus when the exchange is effected any device or user having access to the first user account may access content items unidentified in the second library information that is included in the exchange. Likewise any device or any user having access to the second user account may access the content items identified by the first library information that is included in the exchange.

As one example following the exchange suppose that the first user uses a first user device such as an eBook reader to access a particular content item from the second user s library. Subsequently suppose that the first user wishes to continue to access the content item on a different device such as a smart phone that is also associated with the first user account . Upon receiving a request to access the content item from the different device the content provider may determine from the permission information that the first user account has been granted access to the content items identified in the second library information and may permit download or other access to the particular content item to the other device of the first user as well. Accordingly the content provider may allow access to content items in the second library for the duration of the exchange to any device associated with the first user account . Additionally in some examples if multiple users share the first user account the multiple users may each be able to access content items identified in the second library information while as part of the exchange being unable to access content items identified in the first library information .

Alternatively in other implementations the exchange may be managed on a per user basis and may thus be between two users such that each user is granted access to the other user s library and can access that library through any device of the user. For instance each user may be specifically identified such as through a user login or identifier. As one example suppose that multiple first users have access to the first user account and each has a separate ID or login to the first user account . A particular first user may agree to exchange library access with a particular second user associated with the second user account. Thus based on a login ID or other identification technique the particular first user may access content items identified in the second library information using one or more of the first user electronic devices and not be able to access content items in the library information . If there are other users associated with the first user account those other users may be excluded from the exchange and thus still be able to access content items in the library information and not be able to access content items in the second library information .

As still another alternative the exchange may be managed on a per device basis such that the first user may use a particular first electronic device to access the content items identified in the library information and may not be able to access the content items identified in the library information through any other devices . Additional examples and alternatives are discussed below and or will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein.

In other examples the display may be non touch sensitive. Accordingly in addition to or as an alternative to a touch sensitive display the electronic device may include various external controls and input devices not shown in . For example some implementations of the electronic device may include a virtual or physical keyboard a mouse a pointing stick a touchpad a trackball a joystick a remote control buttons and or various other controls for performing various desired inputs and interactions with the electronic device and content item displayed on the display . Additionally in some implementations one or more voice commands may be used to control or interact with the content items and interfaces herein such as for selection of objects and performing other functions. Further in some implementations a user s eye position gaze or point of focus may be detected to serve as inputs or commands. Thus implementations herein are not limited to any type of input devices techniques or controls.

In the example of suppose that a user of the electronic device wishes to exchange libraries with another user. For instance suppose that the first user of wishes to exchange libraries for a day with the second user . Accordingly the first user may access the interface to initiate exchanging of libraries with the second user . In this example the interface includes instructions that provide information as to how to exchange libraries with another user. The instructions may tell the user of the types of information to provide in the interface and may further set forth one or more rules or constraints that will apply to exchanging libraries with another user. For example the content provider and or publishers may impose limits on the duration for which a library may be exchanged and or may limit the amount of content that may be consumed while a library is exchanged with another library.

As one example a limit may be imposed on the maximum duration of the exchange such as for a duration of 24 hours 12 hours two days or other set period of time. Alternatively in other examples there may be no set period of time and for example the users may pay a fee to the content provider to allow the exchanging of the libraries or the period of time may be set according to various different fees such as by paying additional fees to extend the exchange. As another example the exchange may remain in effect until one or both of the users has consumed a specified amount of content such as a certain number of pages viewed by either of the users e.g. 500 pages of content 1000 pages of content a total accumulated range of locations of one or more content items viewed by the user in the case that the content items use invariant locations rather than page numbers a certain other quantity of content such as 5 MB 100 MB or the like depending on the type of content items included in the library exchange any combination of the foregoing or any of various other limiting factors. Further in other implementations the users may be permitted to access a sample quantity of each content item identified in the library information of the other user. For instance the user may be permitted to sample up to a certain percentage of content of each content item listed in the library information of the other user such as 5 10 etc.

As another example the exchange may remain in effect while both users are detected to be within a certain proximity of one another. For instance the exchange may be permitted while both users are using the same wireless access point or are otherwise detected to be in the same location or within a vicinity of one another. The exchange may terminate when a device of one of the users is detected to be no longer within a certain proximity to the device of the other user. Additionally or alternatively there may be restrictions on the type of content that may be included in an exchange of libraries. As one example eBooks and other textual items may be permitted to be included but other types of content items such as songs or videos may be restricted from being included. Further certain content items associated with particular publishers authors or the like may be prohibited from being included in an exchange such as due to various restrictions imposed by or on the publishers or authors. Other variations will also be apparent to those of skill in the art having the benefit of the disclosure herein.

To enable exchanging of access to libraries between two users or user accounts the interface collects information from an originating first user regarding the other user that is the intended target of an exchange request. For example the interface may obtain an identifier of the other user that is the intended target of the exchange request such as the other user s e mail address or other identifier such as a user ID an account ID or the like that may be used to positively identify a particular recipient. The interface may also obtain the other user s name which in some cases may be used to verify that the exchange request is directed to the correct targeted recipient. The interface may also obtain the name of the originating user that is submitting the request as indicated at and may allow the originating user to include a personal message as indicated at such as a message as to why the user is requesting the exchange a greeting from the user or the like.

Furthermore in this example the interface may include a plurality of filters or limiters that may specify the type of content that may be shared during the exchange of the user s library. For example the user may choose to share only books while not sharing newspapers magazines videos music applications games or personal documents. Accordingly the user may use the filters to select which types of content items to share or not share from the user s library. Additionally as indicated at the user may be provided the opportunity to select particular content items to exclude from the exchange such as a content item that the user is currently reading or the like.

Furthermore some types of content items may be automatically unselected or restricted from being included when the interface is initially presented. For example the personal documents of a user may be automatically unselected while still giving the user the option to select these types of content items. In addition as mentioned above publishers authors or the content provider may restrict certain content items from being shared with a library share or exchange. For example if a user in a first country wishes to share or exchange libraries with a user in a second country certain content items may be restricted based on territorial agreements with various publishers copyright laws of the one of the countries content laws of one of the countries and so forth. As another example the content provider or the user may establish preset defaults as to what type of content items may be shared using a library exchange. For example for copyright or licensing purposes the content provider may limit exchanging of libraries to content items that are textual content items rather than multimedia content items applications or the like. Thus as discussed above the permission information may be used by the content provider to exclude automatically from any exchange certain content items that are prohibited from being included in an exchange. Additionally the user may establish a default to not share certain types of content from the user s library such as the user s personal documents adult content private content or the like.

In addition the user may have the option as indicated at to decide whether personal annotations will be included with the content items in the user s library during the swap. For example a user may have made highlights notes bookmarks or other annotations to one or more of the content items in the user s library. Accordingly the user may include these annotations with the swap or may unselect this option to have these personal annotations not included with the swap. Additionally as indicated at the user also may have the option as to whether to allow the recipient to make their own annotations to content items in the user s library. Thus in some instances the recipient second user may make annotations to one or more of the content items of the first user. In some examples these annotations by the second user may be stored separately from the library of the first user such that if the second user subsequently acquires one of the content items the annotations made by the second user to the content item in the first user s library may be transferred to the second user s instance of the content item.

In addition the interface may include additional instructions describing to the user what will happen after the user initiates the swap of libraries with another user. For example the instructions may inform the user that after the user initiates the swap the content provider will send a message to the target recipient i.e. the second user in this example. Further the instructions may inform the user that if the swap is not accepted within a period of time the request may be canceled. The instructions may further inform the user that when the swap has been accepted the user may lose access to some or all of the user s own library when the user gains access to the recipient s library.

When the first user has provided the requested information and completed all the selections in the interface the user may select a send now button to send the swap request to the intended recipient. Alternatively if the user decides not to swap libraries the user may select a cancel button . Upon selecting the send now button the information from the interface may be sent to the content provider which in turn will send a message to the intended recipient i.e. the second user. For example the message to the intended recipient may inform the recipient second user that the first user wishes to swap libraries with the second user and may inform the second user that the invitation may be accepted within a predetermined period of time or the invitation will be canceled. The message may further inform the second user of any limitations that will be applied upon accepting the request such as losing access to the second user s own library. In addition the message may present an interface similar to the interface to enable the second user to filter the types of content items that are included in the swap select particular content items to exclude and or to select preferences as to whether personal annotations are to be included and or allowed to be made during the library exchange.

Furthermore the interface may include an indicator that may indicate that the first user has a prescribed or set period of time in which to access the second user s library. In some cases the indicator may provide a countdown of time remaining. Alternatively the indicator may set forth a total amount of content that may be consumed from the second user s library and may provide a countdown of the amount of content remaining that is permitted to be accessed. Still alternatively the indicator may specify other limitations to which the access to the second user s library is subject.

In addition the interface may include various controls such as controls which may enable the user to organize and or more easily browse through the content item representations such as by arranging the content item representations according to author as indicated at arranging the representations according to an order in which they have been recently accessed as indicated at or by arranging the representations in order according to title as indicated at to provide a few examples. Other examples or options for arranging the representations may include according to bestsellers price reviews of other users most often accessed or the like. In addition the library interface may include a home button that the user may select to close the library interface such as for accessing a different interface on the device for terminating the swap early or the like.

The user may select one or more of the representations to download or otherwise access and consume the corresponding content item . For example the user may download any of the content items included in the library to the user s device and may access these content items for the duration of the swap such as until the time limit is reached or until a maximum allowed quantity of consumed content is reached. Additionally in some examples rather than immediately downloading a selected content item the interface may first present a synopsis description and or reviews of the content item such as in a popup menu. For instance the description information may be obtained from the content provider by the interaction module upon detecting that the user has tapped on or otherwise selected one of the content item representations in the interface or the description information for each representation may be included with the library information .

As one example the management module may monitor the length of time that the swap has continued and may send instructions to the electronic devices when the allowed time for the swap has expired to terminate the library exchange. In response as one example the interaction module on each device may delete any content items that were downloaded as a result of the library swap and further may offer the opportunity for the user to purchase any of the content items that were downloaded during the swap or other content items included in the other user s library. For example the interaction module may present an interface that identifies any content items browsed or downloaded by the user and may further offer these content items for sale to the user.

Additionally in other examples the interaction module on the electronic device may monitor the length of time of the swap or the amount of content consumed and may terminate the swap independently of the management module . For instance the interaction module may determine that the swap should be terminated and may warn the user of the impending termination such as by providing a countdown. To terminate the swap the interaction module and may remove the library information of the other user from the device delete any content items downloaded during the swap and instruct the presentation module to provide the user with access to the user s own library on the device . The interaction module may further inquire as to whether the user would like to purchase or otherwise acquire access to any of the content items browsed or downloaded during the swap.

In the example described above the first user selected the content item from the library of the second user to download and read or otherwise consume on the electronic device . In addition suppose that the second user when accepting the invitation to swap libraries agreed to provide the second user s personal annotations with the swap. Consequently the metadata corresponding to the content item may include the annotations of the second user for the particular content item . For example the content provider computing device may obtain the annotations from the second user data associated with the account of the second user as illustrated above with respect to and may include this information in the metadata included with the content item provided to the first user .

The annotations of the second user may include for example information to related to highlighted portions corresponding to any portions of the content item that the second user has highlighted notes that have been added to the content item by the second user or bookmarks added to the content item by the second user. The metadata may further include position information that may indicate a current position or furthest position that the second user has reached in the content item . Additionally the metadata may include other metadata such as language information for the content item information relating to parts of speech included in the content item and various other types of metadata.

In this example the first user may access the content item on the electronic device by causing the presentation module to display the content item on the display . When viewing reading or otherwise consuming the content item the first user may be able to see any annotations of the second user . Furthermore if the second user selected the option to allow the first user to annotate content items in the second user s library the first user may also make annotations to the content item which may be stored with the metadata of the content item . Further any annotations made by the first user as well as position information regarding any portions of the content item read or otherwise consumed by the first user the farthest point reached in the content item and so forth may also be sent back to the content provider computing device by the electronic device and stored with the user data of the first user .

Subsequently after the first user and second user swap back to their original libraries if the first user decides to acquire the content item for the first user s library the annotations and position information for the first user may be applied to the newly acquired content item as if the first user had accessed the content item from the first user s library rather than from the second user s library . In addition the annotations of the first user and or the position information of the first user may remain with the metadata of the content item in the library of the second user. For example the second user may be able to see any annotations made by the first user during the library swap.

In the illustrated example the interface provides instructions to inform the user that the libraries of one or more of the listed entities or people may be accessed for a specified period of time or the like. The interface further provides an area to enable the user to select a category of person or entity. For instance the interface may provide a drop down menu that enables the user to select a category such as historical celebrities authors educators organizations and friends to name a few examples. For instance with respect to historical figures the content provider may assemble a library profile for the historical figures that may include books or other items that were included in the libraries of the historical figures.

Furthermore living celebrities authors educators or other selectable people may be provided an incentive to allow other users to access their personal libraries. For example the selectable people may use an interface similar to interface discussed above when selecting items from their personal library that may be viewed by other users. In the case of such selectable people access to their own personal libraries would not be lost by providing access to their libraries to other users. In some cases selectable people may receive a financial incentive to allow other users to access their libraries or may participate in allowing access as part of a promotion of a content item or other activity or event. For instance a selectable person may be able to view or be notified of the number of other users that have accessed their library the number of sales that have resulted from such accesses and or may be provided financial compensation based on the number of sales resulting from other users accessing their library. For example the celebrity may provide recommendations for particular content items in their libraries may provide reviews of particular content items or the like that may be viewed by other users that access the celebrity s library.

Similarly organizations such as museums corporations or the like may also provide access to their libraries or to assembled libraries that may be a collection of content items that have a common connection theme subject or the like. Thus in some examples an organization or the content provider may assemble one or more library profiles to enable users to access libraries that represent collections of content items having some commonality that might be of interest to at least some users.

Furthermore one or more friends of a user may also provide access to their libraries. For example users may associate with one another such as by joining a group a friend list or the like that is communicated to the content provider . For example by joining a particular group such as a book club or the like the members of the club may agree to share temporary access to their libraries with other members of the group.

When the user has selected a desired category at the user may be presented with a list of libraries from the selected category as indicated at . In the illustrated example the user may select from the library of Thomas Jefferson Benjamin Franklin Winston Churchill or Abraham Lincoln and may further scroll down to see additional available selections such as by using a scroll bar . The interface may include additional instructions that described to the user what happens after the user selects a library to browse. For example the instructions may indicate that when the user has selected a library the user s account is charged and the user will have access to the selected library for a specified period of time. Alternatively as mentioned above the user may have access up to a specified consumption quantity or the like. Furthermore as indicated at the user may have the opportunity to change the amount of time and or the total amount of content able to be accessed such as by paying an additional fee. When the user has selected a desired library the user may choose a select now button to gain access to the selected library. On the other hand if the user decides not to access a particular library the user may choice a cancel button .

When the user accesses a selected library the user may be presented with a library interface similar to that described above with respect to . For example the user may browse through content item representations of content items contained in the selected library and choose one or more content items to download to the user s device with which to view and or interact. The user may view any annotations made in the content items such as may be made by a celebrity a museum curator and so forth. In addition annotations made by the user and or position information for the user may be stored in the user data of the user by the content provider in a manner similar to that described above with respect to for any content items accessed. In some examples the user may be required to pay a fee for accessing the library of another or may be provided with advertisement content to be viewed as part of receiving access to the library of another. Additionally in some cases the user may be offered a discount to purchase any items included in the library of another that the user has accessed.

As indicated at the user may select the category such by using a drop down menu or other functionality. In this example the user may select a category such as celebrities friends or titles to name a few possible categories. When the user has selected a category then as indicated at the user may select a particular person from a presented list of names and the titles that the listed people are currently reading such as John Doe currently reading Title A Jane Roe currently reading Title B Allison Moe currently reading Title C and Charles Choe currently reading Title D. The user may further use a scrollbar or the like to view additional names and titles available for selection in the selected category.

Further in some examples the user may make a selection according to title rather than a selectable person. For example the user may select a particular title of a book in which the user is interested currently reading or has already read and may view the celebrity s reading progress notes comments highlights or the like.

The interface may further provide additional instructions that provide information as to how the viewing of the selected person s current book may proceed. As one example the user may be able to sample up to a certain percentage of the book that the selected person is currently reading. In some cases the user may also be able to view any annotations such as highlights notes reviews recommendations etc. that the selected person has made to the content item. When the user has consumed the allowed percentage of content of the content item the user may be invited to purchase the content item to continue viewing additional portions of the content item. As an alternative to being limited to a percentage of the content item the user may be provided access to the particular content item for a limited period of time after the expiration of which purchase or additional payment may be required to view additional portions of the content item such as to follow the selected person and view any annotations made by the selected person.

When the user has selected one of the people from the list the user may select a view now button and may be presented with the current page that the selected person is reading. Alternatively if the user decides not to view what someone else is reading the user may select a cancel button .

In the illustrated example the content provider may maintain an online location or site such as a merchant website an e commerce site or other functionality that offers one or more content items to the public. For example the content provider site may be hosted on one or more of the computing devices . In some cases the host computing devices may be one or more web servers located at a data center server farm or other single physical location. In other cases the content provider site or portions thereof may be located in diverse locations that are physically remote from one another. Further in some implementations the content provider site may be a group of websites data stores services and the like hosted on a plurality of different host computing devices in a plurality of diverse locations or hosted by one or more host computing devices at a single location.

In some implementations the content provider site may offer content items to the public through an online presence accessible by a web browser or other application. In some examples the content provider site alternatively or additionally may provide content items through an online or mobile application executing on the electronic device . For instance an application on the electronic device which may include the interaction module may connect to or obtain content from the content provider site to enable the purchase or management of one or more content items and the like. Thus the content provider site may enable the electronic device to access content items through an online or mobile application executing on a mobile electronic device such as an eBook reader smart phone tablet computing device augmented reality device or the like. Accordingly the content provider site is not limited to a website accessed by a browser but may encompass other technologies for marketing and providing content items such as through in application shopping and the like.

The electronic device may include the interaction module which in some instances may be an application such as a browser mobile application or other module or computer program configured to receive web content webviews online content or the like for accessing and interacting with one or more modules of the content provider . For example the interaction module may enable a user to shop for content items at the content provider site and access or receive content items from the content provider site such as by downloading through the network . Additionally while illustrates an example user and electronic device the described techniques can of course be used with any number of users and electronic devices . In addition a single user may use a plurality of electronic devices .

The electronic device may include the content item presentation module and one or more content items . In some implementations the presentation module and the interaction module may be separate modules or applications. In other implementations the presentation module and the interaction module may both be part of the same application or computer program for accessing and presenting content on the electronic device . In yet other implementations the presentation module and the interaction module may represent different functionalities of the same module.

In some examples the presentation module may present library information on the display such as in the interface described above. In some examples the display may be part of the electronic device and or unitary with the electronic device . In other examples the display may be separate from the electronic device and connected to or coupled with the electronic device . The presentation module may further display content of a content item selected via the library information . In some examples the library information may correspond to the library information discussed above for a library swap while in other examples the library information may be the library information of a selectable person or entity as discussed above with respect to .

The presentation module or the interaction module may present one or more of the interfaces discussed above for exchanging libraries accessing selected libraries or viewing content items being read by others. Thus the presentation module or the interaction module may generate and display the interfaces and or . For instance in some cases the interfaces and or may be generated using any of HTML hypertext markup language JavaScript CSS Cascading Style Sheets widgets or any combination thereof or any other suitable technology or graphics rendering software.

In some implementations each content item may include content such as text images audio video or the like and may further include the metadata that is associated with the content item content . For example the content provider the author the publisher etc. may provide or may generate at least a portion of the metadata for a corresponding content item . In addition in some cases the metadata may include annotations of a user or other information related to user interaction with a content item.

As discussed above the user information may include a plurality of user accounts for a respective plurality of users of the content provider site . For example the user information may include a user account for each user including user data for identifying and interacting with the user such as name email address mailing address telephone number user identification ID number user purchase history e.g. content items acquired by the user usage and interaction information and so forth. The user account may further include library information for each user.

The content provider site may include a content item store module that may provide or may access a content item catalog . For example the content item store module may present the content item catalog to the interaction module of an electronic device that accesses the content provider site to shop for a content item . The content item catalog may include searchable and or browsable listings and descriptions of content items available from the content provider site . The content item store module may communicate with the interaction module on the electronic device to enable the user to locate and acquire a content item from the content provider site .

The content provider site may further include a delivery module that may deliver or make available for delivery a content item to the electronic device and or the user . For example in some instances the delivery module may facilitate the download of a content item to the electronic device over the network s . In other instances the delivery module may also expose programmatic interfaces or APIs application programming interfaces that electronic devices can use to obtain digital content items and related services.

Furthermore in some implementations the delivery module may identify library information to send to the electronic device . For example the library information may include at least a partial listing of content items maintained in a digital library of a particular user selectable person or in a particular library profile . For example in the case of a library swap the library information may include the library contents included in the swap. In the case of a user accessing the library of a selectable person the library information may similarly include the library content of the selected person. In the case that the user desires to access a library of a historical figure an organization or the like the library information may be obtained from a library profile corresponding to the particular historical figure or organization. For example a library profile may be a generally permanent listing of content items that are included in the library for the specified entity and may be created by historians in the case of historical figures by museum curators in the case of museum collections or by organization members in the case of other types of organizations or entities.

Additionally in some cases the delivery module may assist in synchronizing the content of multiple devices of a user or a user account such as for delivering and synchronizing multiple instances of a content item on multiple devices associated with a single account . In some examples the electronic device may send position information to the content provider for inclusion with other information in the user s account . For instance the position information may correspond to the position information discussed above and may include information indicating a current position or point of progress for each content item accessed by the user . The position information associated with a particular user account may be used to synchronize the content item with other instances of a particular content item on other devices associated with the particular user s account. Accordingly the delivery module of the content provider may send synchronizing information that may include the position information and any annotations to the other device s of the particular user so that when the user accesses the content item on the other device the other device may present the content item in the same position as when the user last accessed it on the first user device along with any added annotations.

Additionally in the case that a user desires to view the current reading progress of a selected person such as a celebrity the position information received from a device of the selected person may be used to determine a content portion to provide to the user. For example suppose the user submits an access request that requests viewing of a portion of a content item that the selected person is currently reading. The management module may refer to the user data for the selected person to determine the current position information of the selected person in the content item . The management module may then determine a content portion of the content item corresponding to the current position of the selected person in the content item . The delivery module may make this content portion available for delivery to the electronic device of the user . As mentioned above in some examples the amount of content delivered to the user s device may be limited such as to a certain percentage of the total amount of content of the content item . Further after the allowed amount of content has been received by the user the user may be invited to purchase full access to the content item . Additionally in some examples the content portion made available to the electronic device of the user may include annotations made by the selected person to the content item which may be sent to the content provider with the position information and which may be stored by the content provider with the user data for the selected person.

The content provider site may also include or may access a provider content item library . For example the provider content item library may include a plurality of content items that the content provider has available for access by electronic devices such as by purchase through the content items catalog . Each content item in the provider content item library may include both content and metadata corresponding to the content. In some examples the content item library may contain hundreds of thousands of unique content items including a variety of eBooks such as fiction non fiction etc. and various other types of content items examples of which have been enumerated above.

The content provider site may further include the management module that may be employed in some implementations for managing swapping of libraries managing access to libraries of others and or enabling viewing of portions of content items that other selectable people are currently reading as discussed above. In some examples when the management module receives an exchange request the management module may forward the request to the intended recipient. Upon acceptance of the library swap by the intended recipient the management module may manage the library swap such as by determining when a predetermined period of time has elapsed for terminating the library swap or determining when a predetermined amount of content has been consumed by one or both of the users that are party to the library swap. Furthermore the management module may send an instruction to at least one of the interaction module or the presentation module to prevent or limit access of a user that is party to a library swap to the user s own library for the duration of the swap. The management module may similarly manage a user s access to the library of a selectable person such as by monitoring the amount of time of access the amount of content consumed removal of content items from the user s device after the access has ended or the like. In addition the management module may manage a user s access to a content item that a selectable person is currently consuming. For example the management module may monitor the amount of sample content portions that the user receives in connection with the content item of the selected person and may provide an offer to sell the content item to the user upon the determining that the user has consumed the maximum permitted amount of content. Numerous other variations will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein.

The computer readable media may be used to store any number of functional components that are executable by the processor . In some implementations these functional components comprise instructions or programs that are executable by the processor and that when executed implement operational logic for performing the actions attributed above to the electronic device . Functional components of the electronic device stored in the computer readable media may include the presentation module and the interaction module as described above at least one of which may be executed by the processor for presenting one or more content items and the interfaces and . Additionally the presentation module and or the interaction module may obtain the content item s as well as library information of other users or entities. Other functional components may include an operating system and user interface module for controlling and managing various functions of the electronic device . Depending on the type of the electronic device the computer readable media may also optionally include other functional components such as other modules which may include applications programs drivers and so forth.

The computer readable media may also store data data structures and the like that are used by the functional components. For example data stored by the computer readable media may include the one or more content items . Each content item may include content and metadata . The electronic device may also include other data which may include for example data used by the presentation module the interaction module the operating system and user interface module and the other modules . Further the electronic device may include many other logical programmatic and physical components of which those described are merely examples that are related to the discussion herein.

One or more communication interfaces may support both wired and wireless connection to various networks such as cellular networks radio WiFi networks short range or near field networks e.g. Bluetooth infrared signals local area networks wide area networks the Internet and so forth. For example the communication interface may allow a user of the electronic device to access the World Wide Web download content items from the content provider site access online content such as from a website or other network location and the like. The communication interface may further allow a user to access storage on another device such as a user s computing device a network attached storage device cloud storage or the like.

The electronic device may further be equipped with various other input output I O components . Such I O components may include a touchscreen and various user controls e.g. buttons a joystick a keyboard a mouse etc. speakers a microphone a camera connection ports and so forth. For example the operating system of the electronic device may include suitable drivers configured to accept input from a keypad keyboard or other user controls and devices included as the I O components . For instance the user controls may include page turning buttons navigational keys a power on off button selection keys and so on. Additionally the electronic device may include various other components that are not shown examples of which include removable storage a power source such as a battery and power control unit a global positioning system GPS device a PC Card component and so forth.

As illustrated in an example host computing device includes one or more processors one or more computer readable media and one or more communication interfaces . The processor s may be a single processing unit or a number of processing units and may include single or multiple computing units or multiple processing cores. The processor s can be configured to fetch and execute computer readable instructions stored in the computer readable media or other computer readable media.

The computer readable media may include volatile and nonvolatile memory and or removable and non removable media implemented in any type of technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Such computer readable media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape solid state storage magnetic disk storage RAID storage systems storage arrays network attached storage storage area networks cloud storage or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by a computing device. Depending on the configuration of the computing device the computer readable media may be a type of computer readable storage media and may be a tangible non transitory storage media.

The computer readable media may be used to store any number of functional components that are executable by the processors . In many implementations these functional components comprise instructions or programs that are executable by the processors and that when executed implement operational logic for performing the actions attributed above to the content provider site and content provider . Functional components of the content provider site that may be executed on the processors for implementing the various functions and features related to providing content items and sharing libraries as described herein include the management module the content item store module and the delivery module . Additional functional components stored in the computer readable media may include an operating system for controlling and managing various functions of the host computing device s .

In addition the computer readable media may include or the host computing device s may access data that may include the provider content item library including one or more content items . The data may further include library profiles to provide library information related to historical figures or other entities such as organizations. The data may further include the user information including information for one or more user accounts and corresponding user data and library information . In addition the computer readable media may include permission information which may indicate content items from another library that a user may be permitted to access temporarily such as during a library swap. In addition the computer readable media may store or the host computing devices s may access the content item catalog used by the content item store module . The host computing device s may also include many other logical programmatic and physical components of which those described above are merely examples that are related to the discussion herein.

The communication interface s may include one or more interfaces and hardware components for enabling communication with various other devices such as the electronic devices over the network s . For example communication interface s may facilitate communication through one or more of the Internet cable networks cellular networks wireless networks e.g. Wi Fi cellular and wired networks. Various different approaches to implementations described herein can be implemented in various environments. For instance the network s may include any suitable network including an intranet the Internet a cellular network a LAN WAN VPN or any other network or combination thereof. Components used for such a system can depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. Protocols and components for communicating via such networks are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail.

Host computing device s may further be equipped with various input output devices . Such I O devices may include a display various user interface controls e.g. buttons mouse keyboard touch screen etc. audio speakers connection ports and so forth.

Various instructions methods and techniques described herein may be considered in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules stored on computer storage media and executed by the processors herein. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. for performing particular tasks or implementing particular abstract data types. These program modules and the like may be executed as native code or may be downloaded and executed such as in a virtual machine or other just in time compilation execution environment. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various implementations. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on computer storage media or transmitted across some form of communication media.

At the computing device receives from a first device associated with a first user account an identifier associated with a second user account. For example the identifier may indicate that the second user account is a target of a request to swap access to digital libraries. In some cases the identifier is indicative of a request to exchange permission to access one or more first content items of a first digital library associated with the first user account with permission to access one or more second content items of a second digital library associated with the second user account. The swap may be a temporary exchange of access to content items such that access to first content items of a first digital library associated with the first user account is exchanged for access to second content items of a second digital library associated with the second user account. Thus the computing device of a content provider may receive from an electronic device of a first user an identifier of a second user with which the first user desires to exchange digital libraries.

At the computing device sends information indicative of the request to a second electronic device associated with the second user account based at least in part on the identifier. For example the computing device may determine from the identifier an electronic device associated with the second user account and may send the library swap request to the electronic device associated with the second user account. In some cases the swap request may be maintained at the computing device until the second user logs in to the second user account and the swap request may then be sent to a device that the second user uses to log in to the second user account.

At the computing device receives from the second electronic device information indicative of an acceptance of the request. For example the second user of the second device may be presented with an interface that enables the second user of the second device to accept the request to swap digital libraries which acceptance is sent to the computing device. In some cases the acceptance may be performed using a web browser while in other cases the acceptance may be performed using a mobile application or other suitable program interface or the like.

At the computing device stores permission information that includes first library information associated with the first user account and second library information associated with the second user account. For example the first library information may identify one or more first content items in the first user s library that are permitted to be accessed by the second user as a result of the swap and the second library information identifies one or more second content items in the second user s library that are permitted to be accessed by the first user as a result of the exchange of permission to access. In some cases the first user may use any electronic device affiliated with the first user account to access the content items included in the second library information. Similarly the second user may use any electronic device affiliated with the second user account to access the content items included in the first library information.

At the computing device sends the first library information associated with the first digital library to the second electronic device or to another electronic device associated with the second user account. For example the first library information associated with the first user account may identify one or more content items included in the digital library of the first user that the second user is permitted to access. In some cases the first library information is displayed to the second user when the second user logs in to the second user account such as through a web browser or other program or application. In other cases the first library information may be sent to a device of the second user and may be displayed in an interface on the device. As mention above the second user may be able to select one or more of the content items identified in the first library information to be accessed on a device of the second user associated with the second user account.

At the computing device sends the second library information associated with the second digital library to the first electronic device or to another electronic device associated with the first user account. For example the second library information associated with the second user account may identify one or more content items included in the digital library of the second user that the first user is permitted to access. In some cases the second library information is displayed to the first user when the first user logs in to the first user account such as through a web browser or other program or application. In other cases the second library information may be sent to a device of the first user and may be displayed in an interface on the device. The first user may be able to select one or more of the content items identified in the second library information to be accessed on a device of the first user associated with the first user account.

At the electronic device which is associated with a user account sends an identifier to a computing device. For example the identifier may identify a person or entity that is not associated with the user account and the library of which the user of the electronic device would like to have access.

At the electronic device receives library information identifying one or more content items associated with an entity or person identified by the identifier and not associated with the electronic device. For example the library information may belong to or be otherwise associated with a person or entity other than a user associated with the user account. As one example the person or entity not associated with the user account may be another user with which the user would like to swap access to digital libraries such as by exchanging permission to access as described above. As another example the person or entity not associated with the user account may be any of a historical figure a celebrity an author an educator or teacher an organization or a member of a group with which a user of the electronic device is affiliated such as a social network. Thus the user may be able to access a digital library of another person or entity not associated with the user s account such as by selecting the person or entity from a list in a user interface conducting a search in a user interface and so forth.

At the electronic device receives access to a content item of one or more content items based at least in part on the library information. For example the user of the electronic device may access the library information and select a content item to access using the library information associated with the entity or user.

At the computing device receives from a device associated with a user account an identifier associated with a digital library. The identifier may identify at least one of an entity or a person that is not associated with the device or the user account. For example the user of the device may wish to access a digital library of a selected person or entity. As one example the person or entity not associated with the user account may be another user with which the user would like to swap access to digital libraries such as by exchanging permission to access as described above. As another example the person or entity not associated with the user account may be any of a historical figure a celebrity an author an educator or teacher an organization or a member of a group with which a user of the electronic device is affiliated such as a social network. Thus the user may be able to access a digital library of another person or entity not associated with the user s account such as by selecting the person or entity from a list in a user interface conducting a search in a user interface and so forth.

At the computing device sends library information corresponding to the digital library to the device. For example the library information may identify one or more content items included in the library associated with the identified entity or person.

At the electronic device sends to a computing device information that identifies a person that has accessed a content item. As one example the electronic device may send a selection of the person to the computing device. For example the user of the device may access an interface to select a person whose reading progress or consumption information the user would like to follow or view with respect to the content item.

At the electronic device receives at least an indication of a portion of the content item that has been accessed by the person. For example the device may receive at least an identifier of a page of content that the person is currently reading in the content item. Thus if the user already has an instance of the content item on the electronic device the electronic device may automatically access the content item and display the indicated portion. In other examples the electronic device receives a portion of content of the content item that the person is reading such as by downloading the portion of content.

At the electronic device presents the portion of the content item. For example the electronic device may display to the user the page of the content item that the identified person is currently reading. In some cases the electronic device may also display personal annotations comments or reviews provided by the identified person.

The example processes described herein are only examples of processes provided for discussion purposes. Numerous other variations will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein. Further while the disclosure herein sets forth several examples of suitable frameworks architectures and environments for executing the processes implementations herein are not limited to the particular examples shown and discussed.

Furthermore this disclosure provides various example implementations as described and as illustrated in the drawings. However this disclosure is not limited to the implementations described and illustrated herein but can extend to other implementations as would be known or as would become known to those skilled in the art. Reference in the specification to one implementation this implementation these implementations or some implementations means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described is included in at least one implementation and the appearances of these phrases in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same implementation.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

