---

title: Sharing user distributed search results
abstract: A universal distributed search system allows users to find and distribute search results (possibly including advertisements) to those with whom they communicate. The search results can be easily distributed by the user via a simple interface that allows the search results to be easily added to the user's content. In one implementation, the search results may be automatically generated by the system based on user input to a content creation application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09015149&OS=09015149&RS=09015149
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09015149
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120113
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 420 970 filed May 30 2006 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 based on U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 774 198 filed Feb. 17 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. U.S. application Ser. No. 11 420 970 is also a continuation in part CIP under 37 C.F.R. 1.53 b of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 366 466 filed Mar. 3 2006 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to content creation and more specifically to the enhancement of user created content with search results.

In an increasingly networked world users frequently use online sources to create and exchange information. Email instant messaging IM message boards websites and blogs are all existing communication technologies through which users can create and distribute content to other users. Frequently in creating such content a user may wish to reference other online information sources. For example a user authoring an email may use a browser to navigate to a web page that the user would like to reference in the email copy the link e.g. the uniform resource locator URL from the browser to a clipboard and then paste the link from the clipboard into the email. In this manner the user can create an email message that contains links that are accessible by an eventual reader of the email.

Search engines are a popular tool through which users enter a search query describing information of interest and receive back documents or links to documents that relate to the search query. Frequently when researching content for an email message IM message message board post website post or blog post the user may perform one or more searches using one or more search engines to locate online documents relevant to the content. The user may then copy a link into the document using the above described method of copying and pasting a link to the document. This process for annotating user created content can be tedious difficult to perform for average users and often results in textual links in the final content that can be difficult to read.

In one aspect a content creation application includes a first interface configured to facilitate composition of a message by a user logic to automatically generate a search query based on the message and a second interface configured to display search results relating to the search query and to receive selections of the search results from the user the content creation application automatically incorporating in response to the selections the selected ones of the search results into the message in the first interface.

In another aspect a method includes providing an interface configured to facilitate composition of text by a user automatically generating a search query based on the text automatically initiating a search based on the search query receiving results of the search displaying the results of the search in the interface the displayed results of the search each including a selection object receiving selections of the selection objects from the user and associating the results of the search that correspond to the selected ones of the selection objects with the text in the interface.

In yet another aspect a computer readable medium includes instructions for execution by one or more processing devices. The computer readable medium includes instructions for generating a search query based on non search query information entered by a user instructions for initiating a search based on the generated search query instructions for receiving results of the search instructions for displaying the results of the search to the user the displayed results of the search each including a first graphical object instructions for receiving selections of the results of the search based on selections of the first graphical objects and instructions for automatically incorporating results of the search with the information entered by the user on the selections of the results of the search.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The detailed description does not limit the invention.

Implementations consistent with the principles of the invention relate to allowing users to distribute search results possibly including advertisements to those with whom they communicate. The search results can be easily distributed by the user via a simple interface that allows the search results to be added to the user s content with a single mouse click or other intuitive gestures or commands . In some implementations the search results may be automatically formatted when being included into the user s content to create a high quality link within the content.

As can be appreciated from the workflow illustrated by emails and is sub optimal for both the reader and the email author. In contrast email would likely be considered a higher fidelity communication than either email or . Email includes a number of links to documents that are themselves easily read and that were explicitly selected by the author of the email.

A client may include a device such as a personal computer a lap top computer a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant PDA or another type of computation or communication device. Users of clients may access or receive information from servers A B or .

Clients may include software such as a web browser for interacting with network . Browser programs are well known and are widely available in the art. When browsers or browser programs are discussed herein these terms are intended to refer to any program that allows a user to browse documents e.g. web documents regardless of whether the browser program is a stand alone program or an embedded program such as a browser program included as part of an operating system.

Clients may also include a local content creation component . Local content creation component may include one or more software applications designed to assist the user in generating content. For example in the context of email local content creation component may include an email application for composing sending and reading email. In the context of instant messaging local content creation component may include a client IM program for composing sending and reading instant messages. In alternate implementations local content creation component may be embodied as other content creation applications such as applications designed to assist users in creating blog posts designing or editing web sites or posting to message boards.

In some situations users of clients may create content using networked applications using server in place of or as a supplement to using local content creation components . More particularly server may include content creation component which may provide content creation services to clients . For example server may provide email services to clients such as by providing a web interface through which users of clients can compose send and read email messages using browsers . In the context of instant messaging content creation component may be a server side portion of the IM application and may interact with a client side IM application embodied by local content creation component . In alternate implementations content creation component may be embodied as other network based content creation applications such as applications designed to assist users in creating blog posts designing or editing web sites or posting to message boards.

In the implementation shown servers A and B may generally provide network services such as search services to clients or to server via network service components A and B. For example network service component A may include a search engine designed to index documents such as web pages connected to network . In this implementation in response to search queries received from clients or other servers in system network service component A may return links to documents determined by network service component A to be relevant to the search query. Network service components as well as being general web search engines may be specialized web search engines such as for example search engines that return general web search results image search results video search results local search results geographic search results product search results listing search results email search results blog search results message group search results news search results digitized content search results local network search results e.g. desktop search or corporate network search or advertisements. The operation of search engines are known in the art and will not be described further herein. Additionally in some implementations the search results may include a history of previous search results viewed by the user. In other words a user may select to see a history of his her search results.

In some implementations one or more of network service components may provide advertisements. For example assume that network service component B of server B is an advertisement server. Server B may receive requests from other servers or from clients for advertisements. The advertisements returned by server B to the requesting server or client may be advertisements that are relevant to a search query document or other data.

Although illustrated as single devices in each of servers A B and may be implemented as for example a single computing device or as multiple distributed computing devices. Also in some implementations the functionality of multiple servers such as servers B and may be combined as a single server or a single group of distributed computing devices.

Processor may include any type of processor microprocessor or processing logic that interprets and executes instructions. Main memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor . ROM may include a ROM device or another type of static storage device that may store static information and instructions for use by processor . Storage device may include a magnetic and or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive.

Input device may include a mechanism that permits a user to input information to computing device such as a keyboard a mouse a pen voice recognition and or biometric mechanisms etc. Output device may include a conventional mechanism that outputs information to the user including a display a printer a speaker etc. Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables computing device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network such as network .

Network service components and content creation component in servers A B and respectively may be implemented in software and stored in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as one or more physical or logical memory devices and or carrier waves.

The software instructions defining network service components and content creation component may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as data storage device or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in memory cause processor to perform processes that will be described later. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes consistent with the present invention. Thus implementations consistent with the principles of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Consistent with an aspect of the invention users generating content such as content created with one or both of content creation component or local content creation component may easily incorporate search results and or advertisements into their content creation workflow. Incorporation of search results and or advertisements in the manner described herein will be referred to as user distributed search UDS .

Content creation component may provide a graphical interface that includes a UDS section act . is a diagram of an exemplary email interface . Email interface may include fields such as To field Subject field and message field in which the user may compose an email message in a typical manner. Additionally in this implementation interface includes a UDS sidebar . In some implementations UDS sidebar may be presented as a graphical window toolbar or other element of interface that the user can selectably display or hide from view. As shown UDS sidebar includes a search query field and a number of search result sections . In this example search result sections include image result section local search result section general web search result section and advertisement result section . A selectable graphical button such as arrows may allow the user to hide or view each of search result sections . As shown results in local search result section local results are hidden while search result sections and are selected to show search results. In some implementations the user of the email application may be able to customize which of the search results sections are shown in UDS sidebar .

The user may at some point while composing the email enter a search query into search query field act . In some implementations instead of the user manually entering a search search queries may be automatically generated and or executed such as by generating search queries based on content entered by the user or semi automatically generated and or executed such as by allowing searches to be performed when a user hovers over a word or selection with a graphical pointing device act . In response content creation component may transmit the search query to each of the appropriate network service components . In this example content creation component may transmit the search query to three network service components respectively implementing an image search engine a local web search engine and a general web search engine. Content creation component may also transmit the search query to another network search component that implements an advertisement server. The search results returned from each of these four search objects may then be shown to the user act . In some implementations the user may select one of the search results to view the underlying document in a separate browser window.

As illustrated in the example of the user entered the search query Canon Macro Lens into search query field . The returned search results include a number of images related to this search a number of relevant web sites related to the search and an advertisement related to the search. Each of the returned search results may include a link or other graphical selection object that allows the user to select the search result for inclusion in to the message being composed. In this implementation a save link is shown below each of the search results.

The user may decide to include one or more of the search results in the email act . The user may do so by simply selecting the appropriate save link which causes content creation component to copy the corresponding search result into the email. In response content creation component may write the selected results to the email such as to the message field of the email act . As shown in this example the user has selected two images two general web results an advertisement and a local search result for inclusion in the email being composed. In one implementation the results may be automatically placed below message field in the email. In other implementations content creation component may allow the user to control the placement of the results in the email such as by graphically dragging different results to different positions in the email. For example a user may by dragging a search result over an image or other portion of text cause the image or other portion of text to become anchor text for the link that refers to the search results. Content creation component may allow the user to implement other editorial controls such as providing the user with the ability to annotate search results or to add an indication of the search query that was used to generate the search result.

The user may continue to edit the content enter or refine search queries and select results for the content until the user is ready to send or post the content acts and . In the example of the user may enter a send email command when the user is ready to send the email. The email when received by the recipient may appear as email . The recipient of the email may be able to conveniently view the web pages corresponding to the links by selecting the links. The links underlying the image search results in particular may take the user to the web page at which the image is hosted.

As can be seen from the selected results in contrast to links that are typically pasted into emails between users such as link are formatted in a visually appealing manner and thus provide a higher quality content than typical links that a user would normally paste into content e.g. such as link of . More specifically the links relating to the search results may as shown in include the actual link to the search result a short snippet of text that may be selected based on terms in the search query and the domain corresponding to the returned result. Additionally the user may select chosen results via a simple process such as by a single mouse click on a link or by a drag and drop selection operation associated with link thus providing even relatively unsophisticated computer users with the ability to enhance their content with search results.

In some implementations content creators that place advertisement links in their content may be given some form of credit if the reader of the advertisement selects the advertisement link. The credit can be monetary or take some other form. Because of the high likelihood that an advertisement incorporated by a content creator into their content is relevant and or likely to be viewed by the reader a number of different business models are possible. For example advertisers may be charged a premium or charged based on a different rate scale for advertisements distributed via UDS.

The above description of UDS was primarily in the context of sending email content. As previously mentioned UDS can be applied equally well to other forms of content creation. illustrate other additional applications of UDS.

In an exemplary message board interface is presented to a user such as an interface presented through a browser . As shown in interface a first user has posted a message asking for advice relating to a crank for a bicycle. A second user responds with a message . Through UDS the poster supplements message with a number of search results . The search results include images of the cranks under discussion an advertisement for a bicycle store mentioned in message a link to a web site of the company that produces the cranks and a link pointing to a local distributor of the cranks. Through UDS the user responding to message was able to effectively supplement the text of message with links that he specifically selected as being relevant to the topic under discussion.

In an exemplary instant messaging interface is presented to a user such as an interface presented by a local content creation component e.g. an IM client executing at a client . Instant messaging interface includes a message display portion through which transmitted instant messages are displayed a messaging area in which users may enter messages that they are going to transmit and UDS interface . In this example the two participants in the conversation Mark and Cindy are discussing possible vineyards to visit. Through UDS each user has selectively augmented their messages with links relating to the particular vineyard under discussion. In this manner UDS interface can enhance the quality of the instant messaging conversation by for example allowing users to both search from within IM interface and easily share selected links from the search with other users.

In an exemplary interface of a blog authoring tool presented to a user such as a web based blog authoring tool implemented by content creation component or a locally executed blog authoring tool implemented by local content creation component . Interface may include a blog authoring section in which a blogger may enter and edit blog posts. UDS interface allows the blogger to enter search queries and receive search results in a manner similar to UDS sidebar . Search results selected by the blogger may be displayed in result section of interface . When the blogger is ready to publish the post publish post button may cause the text entered by the blogger in section and the search results selected by the blogger in result section to both be published as a single blog post to the blogger s blog.

It can be recognized that the UDS described above can be implemented using a number of different programming and hardware technologies. A high level description of one exemplary implementation will now be given.

User interface portion and JavaScript object together act to reduce the start stop start stop nature of traditional browser based web applications as JavaScript object adds a client side layer that can handle many of the user interactions with user interface portion . Instead of loading a web page at the start of a user session browser may load JavaScript application from server or alternatively from a local cache . JavaScript object may be responsible for both rendering the interface the user sees and communicating with content creation component of server on the user s behalf.

JavaScript object may be a dynamically configured object that allows for dynamic selection of which network services such as which search services to use. JavaScript object may implement a number of different functions at client . For example JavaScript object may allow the interface to be positioned where desired in the client display. Additionally JavaScript object may implement a search control object that limits search results to a small number of highly relevant results per search. The search control object may annotate each search result with an element that when clicked allows the user to save the search result to the content creation interface.

In some implementations JavaScript object may be an object that is designed to be easily integrated into existing web based JavaScript applications thus providing a convenient application programming interface API through which programmers can incorporate UDS into their programs.

UDS engine may provide an interface with JavaScript object . In response to JavaScript object UDS interface may annotate search requests perform searches through appropriate search services A through N and serialize results of the searches. Search services A through N may return search results such as general web based search results image results etc. or return relevant advertisements in response to requests from UDS engine .

In the UDS described above search results were primarily described as being obtained based on a search query entered by the user. In alternate implementations the UDS may automatically generate search queries and perform potential searches using automatically generated search queries.

Referring back to in act a search query may be entered by a user or automatically generated. is a diagram illustrating additional details that may be associated with act . In particular as shown in a search query may be generated based on a search query received from a user act or based on the automatic generation of a search query acts .

In act a search query may be received from a user. As previously mentioned this act may be based on a user typing a search query into a search query field such as search query field . Alternatively In some implementations instead of the user typing a search query the user may select search terms in other ways such as by hovering over a word or selection with a graphical pointing device

Instead of waiting for a user to provide a search query the UDS may automatically generate search queries based on for example entity recognition techniques performed using the content entered by the user or content otherwise associated with content creation application act . Entity recognition techniques are generally known in the art and may include for example techniques designed to recognize entities such as products places organizations or any other entities that tend to be subjects of searches. The entity recognition techniques can be based on linguistic grammar models or statistical models. In one possible implementation the entity recognition techniques may be particularly adopted to locate terms that correspond to commercial products or terms that define an address such as a postal address. In other possible implementations the entity recognition techniques may be particularly biased to locate terms that are associated with a profile of the user such as profile explicitly generated by the user e.g. by the user filling out a questionnaire or a profile automatically generated for the user such as a profile based on the user s search history or based on documents created by the user.

If an entity is recognized in act that is determined to be relevant enough for a search to be executed the entity may be submitted as a search query to the appropriate network service components acts and . In some implementations if multiple entities are received they may be combined and submitted as a single search query submitted as multiple separate search queries or filtered to remove less relevant entities before combining the remaining entities as a search query. In some implementations the UDS system may only submit the determined entity to certain ones of the network service components based on the type of entity. For example an address may be submitted to a mapping or local search network service component while a commercial product may be submitted to a shopping network service component and an advertisement network service component. In still other implementations recognized entities may be submitted as a search query only when the recognized entity matches predetermined criteria such as when the entity is recognized as a predetermined type of entity e.g. date address product etc. or when the entity matches a predetermined list of entities such as a list entered by the user or a list that corresponds to previous search queries entered by the user.

Referring back to the returned search results may then be shown in the UDS interface and as previously described potentially selected by the user and incorporated into the content being created by the user acts .

In some implementations the entity recognition techniques may additionally take into account context relating to the particular content creation component or state of the content creation component that is being used by the user. For example entity recognition techniques applied to a message board content creation component may be biased to look for terms in the content that relate to the topic of the message board. As another example entity recognition techniques applied to a blog authoring tool may be biased to look for terms in the content that relate to the general topic of the blog e.g. if the blog is a computer software blog the entity recognition techniques may be biased to locate terms relating to computer software .

Acts may be performed in real time or near real time as the user is typing or otherwise editing content. In this way potentially relevant search results can be dynamically updated and shown to the user without interrupting the workflow of the user. In other implementations acts may be performed in response to a triggering event. Possible examples of such triggering events include a user opening a composition interface such as when the user selects a reply button in an email interface or the user initiating a spell check operation or other operation user inactivity for a set period of time such as when a period of time elapses in which content creation application does not receive input from the user.

In contrast to the example shown in however in which UDS sidebar provides user selectable search results UDS sidebar may include multiple sidebars shown in interface as an auto generated results section sidebar and a user generated results section sidebar . User generated results section may function similarly to UDS sidebar . That is a user may enter search queries in search box and view results of the search in one or more search results sections and .

Auto generated results section may include search results that are generated automatically by the UDS acts . The results may be generated in real time or in near real time by the UDS system as the user creates content e.g. by typing content . Auto generated results section may include a search query section in which the search query that was automatically generated by the UDS act is shown and a search result portion . Search result portion may include search results for the automatically generated query that is shown in search query section . In this example search result portion includes an image result section and general web search result section . Graphical arrow buttons may allow the user to hide or view each of the search result sections. As shown results in image result section image results are hidden while general web search result section is selected to show search results.

Whether auto generated search results section and or user generated search results section is displayed in interface may be configurable by the user. In the example of interface search results sections and include close buttons and respectively which may operate to remove the respective results sections or from the UDS interface. With these buttons the user may disable auto generation of search queries.

Search results sections and in addition to being closeable by the user may include an option to allow the search results sections to be detached from interface . In other words the user may be able to cause search results sections and to become a separate window within a graphical interface.

In alternate implementations instead of presenting an interface to the user that includes multiple sidebars as shown in interface the UDS may present a single sidebar to the user through which both manually entered search queries and automatically generated search queries are shown to the user. For example the UDS system may automatically generate search queries and display the results to the user as long as the user does not manually enter a search query. When the user manually enters a search query the system may refrain from automatically generating further search queries. Also the user may be able to disable the automated portion of the search generation.

Further in some alternate implementations the UDS may automatically generate search queries as described above but may not automatically submit the search queries to network service components . Instead the UDS may for example display the search queries in search query section . The user if interested in the automatically generated search query may submit it to one or more of the network service components .

With the UDS system described above search results were presented to the user based on a search query entered by the user or automatically generated based on entity recognition techniques. In alternate implementations the search results or search queries may be further refined by the UDS system before being shown to the user.

Referring back to in act a search query may be entered by a user or automatically generated. In response content creation component may transmit the search query to each of the appropriate network service components and the search results returned from each of the network service components may then be shown to the user act .

In addition to refining search queries to include additional information relating to the particular type of content creation application search queries may be refined based on particular users of the content creation application or based on users to whom messages are addressed that are created with content creation application act .

As an example of refining search queries based on the users of the content creation application or based on users to whom messages are addressed consider the exemplary email message illustrated in . In email message the sender of the email message is informing the recipient of the email of a local restaurant Caf Del Sol at which they are to meet. To support this message the sender has added search results from a local search engine that were selected from local results . In implementations consistent with aspects of the invention the search results may be based on search queries that were automatically refined to include references to the locations of the sender of the email message or the recipient of the email message. For example local search result may link to a local search engine result web page that includes a map showing the location of the restaurant relative to the location of the recipient of the email message. The location of the email recipient may be known from information entered by the recipient when signing up for an email account if the recipient of the email message is using the same email platform as the sender. As another example local search results may include search results based on multiple local searches such as a local search refined based on the sender s location and a local search refined based on the recipient s location.

As another example of refining search queries based on the users of content creation application the UDS system may generate an explicit or implicit profile of the user and use the profile when refining the search results. The profile may be based on for example past searches by the user or explicit profile or preference information entered by the user.

The search query refined in act may be submitted to the appropriate network service components act . The search results received back from the network search components may then be presented to the user acts and . Certain of these search results such as search results for example may be selected by the user and included in the document as previously described.

In one implementation additional information relating to the particular type of content creation application may be used to refine the search results. For instance if content creation component is an application designed to facilitate posts to a message board and the particular message board being posted to is the message board rec.bicycles.tech content creation application may refine the search results by ranking the results to emphasize results that are more relevant to bicycles or removing filtering results that are not related to bicycles.

In another possible implementation the search results may be refined based on information relating to the user of content creation application or based on information relating to the intended recipients of the content. As an example of this consider a profile created by or for the user that includes areas of interest of the user. The profile may be used as a basis to re rank the search results. In other possible implementations other information such as for a message board post geographic information that is relevant to the message board post may be used to refine the search results.

The user selection of search results when creating content may provide an indication that the selected search results are relevant to the search query. For example the search results selected by a user may be used as part of a reputation network. In general a reputation network in some way quantifies the reputation or score of users as to their expertise in certain categories or topics. In the context of UDS if a particular user incorporates a large number of search results into content and the search results are frequently selected by readers of the content this may be an indication that the user is an expert in the topic relating to the content and his reputation score for the topic may be increased. This application may be particularly relevant to content applications such as message boards where the message boards are typically categorized by topic.

More generally regarding reputation the gesture of selecting a result may be feed back into the system to impact for example raw result ranking raw value of an advertisement raw reputation of a user performing a selection or raw reputation of an application using UDS. These raw reputation results can be used for example to modify a document or advertisement ranking used by the underlying search engines.

Advertisements presented through UDS may in particular represent advertisements that have a higher likelihood of click through and may therefore be more valuable to the advertiser. These advertisements may for example cost more than or be provided on different terms than other advertisements. In some implementations the revenue or other benefit derived from advertisements selected by the content creator may be in some way shared with the content creator. In some situations the fact that an advertisement is selected by an end user may be used in some way to modify a reputation of the content creator that selected the advertisement.

Additionally in some implementations content with search results selected by a user may be additionally automatically modified or supplemented such as by adding additional links to advertisements or products that are determined to be relevant to the selected search results. As an example of this consider an advertisement for a merchant included in an email message by the author of the email message. It may be desirable to include an additional advertisement from the merchant in the email such as an advertisement relating to an offer for free shipping from the merchant. These additional or follow on advertisements may be displayed within the message itself or as advertisements presented to the user via a different channel. For example if the recipient of the email message is viewing the email message using a web based email application the follow on advertisement may be displayed outside of the message itself such as in a portion of the browser that the web based email application normally uses to present advertisements to its users.

Additionally in some implementations the UDS search query field such as search query field instead of causing searches to be executed through network service components e.g. network search engines may perform other types of local or network search. For example the search query may alternatively or additionally be submitted to a local e.g. a desktop search service or to a search service integrated in the content creation application. For example a network email content creation application may include a search service that allows a user to search previously sent or received emails. In this situation the UDS search query field may additionally use the search services of the content creation application.

The foregoing description of exemplary embodiments of the invention provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention.

Moreover while series of acts have been described with regard to and the order of the acts may be varied in other implementations consistent with the invention. Moreover non dependent acts may be implemented in parallel.

It will also be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that aspects of the invention as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement aspects consistent with the principles of the invention is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of the aspects of the invention were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that one of ordinary skill in the art would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the aspects based on the description herein.

Further certain portions of the invention may be implemented as logic or a component that performs one or more functions. This logic may include hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit or a field programmable gate array software or a combination of hardware and software.

No element act or instruction used in the description of the invention should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

