---

title: Testing and monitoring an electrical system
abstract: A method includes outputting a test initiation command over a power supply cable to a first load device, receiving, at the first load device, the test initiation command and testing the first load device. The method also includes generating first test data for the first load device, inserting the first test data into a data packet and forwarding the data packet to another load device. The method further includes repeating the inserting and forwarding for each of the load devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09008992&OS=09008992&RS=09008992
owner: Thomas & Betts International, Inc.
number: 09008992
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120312
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 based on U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 467 407 filed Mar. 25 2011 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

An insulation resistance test commonly known as a Megger test is often used to determine if insulation or connections on a cable system are degrading. For example a Megger test may be performed to test a power cable that is serially connected to a number of electrical devices such as lights. One drawback with using such a conventional test is that the test may indicate that there is a problem on the system but the test is unable to indicate which segment of the cable has a problem. When the cable system spans a long distance an electrician may take hours to identify the source of the problem through a number of manual interventions and test break points.

An impedance test may also be performed using a Time Domain Reflectometer Reflectometry TDR . A TDR test transmits a short rise time pulse along a conductor. If the conductor is of uniform impedance and is properly terminated the entire transmitted pulse will be absorbed in the far end termination and no signal will be reflected toward the TDR. Any impedance discontinuities will cause some of the incident signal to be sent back toward the source. The resulting reflected pulse that is measured at the output input to the TDR is displayed or plotted as a function of time and because the speed of signal propagation is almost constant for a given transmission medium can be read as a function of cable length. One of the drawbacks of this test is that in a medium that is not uniform i.e. many splices exist transformers are connected in series etc. the reflected pulse cannot be used to accurately assess a cable fault.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following detailed description does not limit the invention.

Embodiments described herein provide a system that enables tests to be performed on electrical devices and a power cable interconnecting the electrical devices. For example in one embodiment a test on a number of light fixtures that are serially connected to one another may be initiated from a central testing monitoring device. Each light fixture may receive the test initiation signal perform various tests in response to the signal and insert test data into a packet or on a carrier signal that will return to the central testing monitoring device. Based on the location within the packet and or timing of the received test data the central monitoring device may identify the particular light fixture and or segment of cable associated with the returned test data.

CCR and test system may provide power to light fixtures and sign . For example CCR may include a transformer and regulator that provide constant current to each of light fixtures and sign . CCR and test system may also include circuitry or components that drive communications over cable . For example test system may interpose or multiplex data communications over the same cable i.e. cable that provides power to light fixtures and sign . The data communications may include communications to initiate various tests such as a Megger test on cable a test to determine the status of a light bulb in light fixtures etc. In some implementations the data communications may initiate other actions such as an action to ground one or more of light fixtures via a ground relay included in the light fixture as described in detail below.

Light fixtures may represent light fixtures used in any number of different applications such as lights used in an airport runway system lights used in a campus environment such as a corporate campus or school etc. Light fixtures may include a wiring can or electrical box that includes an isolation transformer and cabling. Light fixtures may also include one or more light bulbs. Sign may represent an airport sign such as a sign used on a runway that may be lighted to allow for viewing in night time conditions. Sign may also include an isolation transformer not shown .

Cable may be a power cable that interconnects CCR light fixtures and sign to one another and provides power to each of light fixtures and sign . In an exemplary implementation cable may serially connect CCR to each of light fixtures and sign in for example a 500 kilovolt kV series circuit. Cable may also be used for communicating signaling to test components of system . For example in accordance with one implementation CCR may initiate a test over cable that allows test system to receive the test results and identify particular segments of cable and or particular light fixtures that have problems as described in detail below.

Processor may include a processor microprocessor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA or other processing logic. Processor may execute software instructions programs or data structures to control operation of test system .

Memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processor a read only memory ROM or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for use by processor a flash memory e.g. an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM device for storing information and instructions a hard disk drive HDD and or some other type of magnetic or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive. Memory may also be used to store temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processor . Instructions used by processor may also or alternatively be stored in another type of computer readable medium accessible by processor . A computer readable medium may include one or more memory devices.

Input device may include mechanisms that permit an operator to input information to test system such as a keypad control buttons a keyboard e.g. a QWERTY keyboard a Dvorak keyboard etc. a touch screen display that acts as an input device etc. Output device may include one or more mechanisms that output information to the user including a display such as a display a printer one or more speakers.

Communication interface may include a transceiver that enables test system to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may allow data communications or test signals to be transmitted on cable . In one implementation communication interface may transmit a data signal or packet on cable that will be identified by each of light fixtures and sign as a test initiation signal packet as described in more detail below. Communication interface may also include a modem or an Ethernet interface to a local area network LAN . Communication interface may also include mechanisms for communicating via a network such as a wireless network. For example communication interface may include one or more radio frequency RF transmitters receivers and or transceivers and one or more antennas for transmitting and receiving RF data via a network.

Test system may provide a platform for testing system include light fixtures sign and cable . Test system may initiate and perform some of these operations in response to processor executing sequences of instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . Such instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium via for example communication interface . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes consistent with the invention. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Transformer may be an isolation transformer that includes primary coil and secondary coil . CM may be connected in parallel to the primary coil . Transformer may provide isolation of power from the source side e.g. source to the load e.g. load which may correspond to one or more bulbs in light fixture . In some implementations CM and BR may be integrated into one unit device and be connected in parallel to the secondary coil of isolation transformer .

CM may manage all communications over the primary line and provide unique addressing associated with each of lights and sign . CM may also enable Megger testing and TDR testing of cable monitoring the health of secondary coil and fixture and providing isolation on surge or lightning strikes as described in more detail below. Bridge rectifier BR may ensure proper polarity associated with the load e.g. a light bulb included in light fixture . The exemplary configuration illustrated in is provided for simplicity. It should be understood that lighting fixtures may include more or fewer devices than illustrated in .

Processor may include a processor microprocessor an ASIC FPGA or other processing logic. Processor may execute software instructions programs or data structures to control operation of CM .

Memory may include a RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processor a ROM or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for use by processor a flash memory e.g. an EEPROM device for storing information and instructions an HDD and or some other type of magnetic or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive. Memory may also be used to store temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processor . Instructions used by processor may also or alternatively be stored in another type of computer readable medium accessible by processor . A computer readable medium may include one or more memory devices.

Primary circuit test and isolation components may include devices and or circuitry to test primary coil to determine whether primary coil has any shorts in the windings or other problems. Primary circuit test and isolation components may also include circuitry to ensure that primary coil is electrically isolated from secondary coil . In one implementation isolation transformer may include a tunnel for routing the secondary winding wire to ensure that the secondary winding has 100 isolation from all components on the primary side. For example illustrates a cut away view of isolation transformer . Referring to FIG. tunnel is used to route the secondary winding cable to the load. As also illustrated air free molding illustrated at area ensures high internal insulation for isolation transformer .

Returning to secondary circuit test components may include logic to monitor the health of the secondary coil and the light bulb fixture itself. For example secondary circuit test components may measure voltage and or current of the secondary line to determine if shorts exist across the windings. Secondary circuit test components may also provide an alarm upon detecting an absence of a load e.g. bulb failure . Information from secondary circuit and test components may enable a central monitoring system to predict the life of fixture . In an exemplary implementation secondary A and B lines illustrated in may be passed through an isolating channel under inductive sensors to ensure isolation from the primary side of isolation transformer .

Grounding relay may include a high speed relay that operates to ground light fixture upon detecting a voltage or current spike. For example upon a lightning strike a voltage spike may be imparted to cable . Grounding relay may sense the voltage spike and ground isolation transformer thereby ensuring that the voltage spike does not cascade on cable to other light fixtures . Grounding relay may also be automatically reset after the surge has passed. In addition grounding relay may include logic to provide a diagnosis and report any damage or degradation after the surge has passed. This diagnosis report may provide the central monitoring system e.g. test system with information that may be useful.

Communication interface may include a transceiver that enables CM to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may receive a test packet signal from test system or an upstream light fixture . In each case communication interface may forward the packet signal to processor that identifies the test initiation command. Communication interface may also forward a packet with information associated with the particular light fixture to a downstream light fixture via cable . In some implementations communication interface may include a modem or an Ethernet interface to a LAN. Communication interface may also include mechanisms for communicating via a network such as a wireless network. For example communication interface may include one or more radio frequency RF transmitters receivers and or transceivers and one or more antennas for transmitting and receiving RF data via a network.

CM may provide a platform for testing components of light fixture sign and or cable . CM may perform some or all of these operations in response to processor executing sequences of instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . Such instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium via for example communication interface . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes consistent with the invention. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

CM may also determine that the test packet indicates that a load test should be performed for light fixture . In this case CM may determine whether a load exists on the secondary side of isolation transformer . As discussed above if no load exists CM may determine that a bulb failure has occurred.

CM may further perform a Megger test to measure the resistance value associated with the segment of the cable between CCR and lighting fixture . Such a test may enable personnel at a central monitoring facility e.g. test system determine whether insulation and or connection problems exist in the segment of cable connecting test system and light fixture .

After performing the various tests measurements described above CM may insert the test results into the packet received from CCR block . For example processor may insert the measurement data e.g. the measured voltage and or current associated with secondary winding the information associated with load such as bulb failure information resistance values associated with cable etc. into a payload of the packet at a location starting at the beginning of the payload portion of the packet. Processor may forward the packet to the next light fixture in the serial circuit block . In this example processor may forward the packet via communication interface to light fixture .

Processing may continue in this manner with each light fixture inserting test result data into the payload of the packet. By inserting the test data into the packet at a location adjacent the previous test data test system will be able to identify test data associated with each particular segment of cable and light fixture . This enables the central monitoring system to easily identify problem locations on system . If a light fixture is not operating properly null data or some other type of data may be inserted into the data packet that will be recognized by the central monitoring system as an alert or trouble associated with the particular light fixture.

Assume that the test packet has reached sign . CM within sign may perform similar processing associated with performing tests on sign and or cable and forward the packet back to test system . Test system may receive the test packet and analyze the content of the test packet block . For example test system may identify data associated with each particular light fixture and each segment of cable block .

Test system and or a technician associated with monitoring system may then dispatch personnel to a particular portion of system that may have a problem block . For example if the returned test data indicates that fixture has a burned out bulb an electrician may be dispatched to light fixture to replace the bulb. Similarly if the test data indicates an insulation resistance problem associated with the portion of cable located between light fixture and an electrician technician may be dispatched to that portion of cable to identify the problem.

In the implementation described above a test signal or packet was forwarded from test system to each of light fixtures and sign and each of fixtures and sign inserted its test result data into the packet before forwarding on the packet. Since the test signal packet is forwarded on serial cable each of light fixtures receives the test initiation signal in a serial manner and performs its testing upon receipt of the test initiation signal.

In some implementations upon receipt of a test initiation signal such as a Megger test signal each CM may automatically measure insulation values associated with a Megger test. Each CM may also relay resistance Megger values and or other test values to the central monitoring system on the carrier i.e. cable in a next shift cycle. For example each CM may interpose or multiplex information e.g. a Megger value associated with the Megger test on cable which is also simultaneously carrying power for fixtures and sign and forward the information e.g. Megger value on cable . In this case the central monitoring system e.g. test system may identify the particular fixture associated with the data on cable based on a time in which the data is received. That is the data for each of fixtures and or portions of cable may be received in consecutive shift cycles so that test system identifies the test data associated with each particular fixture or portion of cable based on the order or time in which the data is received. In other implementations each fixture or sign may tag its data with an identification number that is recognized by test system .

In some implementations test system may perform TDR testing in addition to or as an alternative to the testing described above. For example test system may include a TDR program that analyzes characteristics of electrical lines such as cable as well as detects discontinuities or faults in connectors circuit boards or other electrical paths such as components in fixtures or sign . In an exemplary implementation the TDR at test system may transmit a test pulse signal along cable to initiate the TDR test. In some implementations the test signal pulse for the TDR test may be a communication signal that indicates to light fixture that a TDR test is to commence. If the device TDR that transmitted a signal pulse receives a return pulse this may indicate that cable fixtures and or sign include a fault or other discontinuity as described in more detail below. In addition each CM in lighting fixture and sign may forward information identifying the reflected pulse level received by the particular CM for analysis by test system as also described in detail below.

For example illustrates use of TDR to test components of system . Referring to test system may send a test command initiation signal on cable to light fixture . The signal received at fixture may be reflected back to test system as indicated by reflected signal in . When a reflected pulse is received by the transmitting device i.e. test system in this example this may indicate a fault or other discontinuity. Test system may measure the amplitude of the reflected signal.

After CM at fixture labeled CM in receives the TDR test command initiation signal CM at fixture may forward a test initiation command signal to light fixture as illustrated by signal in . Similar to the discussion above regarding the portion of cable located between test system and fixture if cable includes a fault located between fixtures and a reflected pulse e.g. reflected pulse may be transmitted back and measured at CM in fixture . In this case the time from when the test signal was transmitted from fixture until the reflected signal is received back at fixture may be used to identify the location of the fault. That is the signal propagation speed of the test signal and the round trip time from the time that the test pulse was transmitted until the reflected pulse was received may be used to determine an approximate location of the fault i.e. between fixtures and in this example .

Each CM may forward the TDR test command initiation signal to the next light fixture and or sign located downstream of the receiving CM . For example CM in light fixture labeled CM forwards signal to light fixture CM in light fixture forwards signal to light fixture up through light fixture N in which CM forwards signal to test system to complete the loop.

Similar to the discussion above each light fixture that transmits a test signal may also receive a reflected pulse e.g. reflected pulses . . . illustrated in . Each CM in the light fixture sign may measure the amplitude of the reflected pulse as described above with respect to CM in light fixture . Test system and CMs in light fixtures and sign may forward information associated with the measured reflected pulse level to test system for analysis.

For example in one implementation when test system receives reflected pulse from light fixture test system may generate a data packet and insert amplitude information associated with the reflected pulse into the data packet for transmission along cable to light fixture as indicated by packet in . When light fixture receives packet CM in light fixture inserts or packs the payload of data packet with the amplitude information associated with reflected pulse and forwards the data packet to light fixture as indicated by packet . When light fixture receives packet signal CM in light fixture similarly inserts packs the payload of data packet with the amplitude information associated with reflected pulse and forwards packet along cable . Processing continues in this manner with each light fixture sign inserting amplitude information associated with the reflected pulse that it received during the TDR test into the data packet until CM N forwards data packet to test system .

Test system receives packet and uses the payload information to identify faults along cable . For example packet may include data associated with reflected pulses received measured by each node e.g. light fixture or sign in system . The differential amplitude of each reflected pulse may used by test system to recognize the location of the fault and its severity versus other baseline reflections previously recorded. Other types of discontinuities and problems in cable fixtures and sign e.g. open circuits bad connections etc. may also be detected in a similar manner. In some instances the amplitude or magnitude of the reflected pulse signal measured by each CM may be used to further indicate the type of problem. For example if the amplitude or magnitude of the reflected pulse is small compared to the amplitude of the test pulse this may indicate a bad connection at one of light fixtures or sign as opposed to a short circuit fault or open circuit condition. As s described above test system may decode and analyze data associated with the TDR test from each fixture sign in system to identify faults and or other problems.

In an exemplary implementation test system may also include logic such as software hardware and or firmware to establish initial commissioned baselines for each segment and load device in system . That is test system may initially generate baseline test data for system by testing system while system is known to be in a fully functional state e.g. when system is known to include no faults . Test system may then store expected values data e.g. in memory associated with TDR testing when no problems exist. Test system may then identify degradation of system based on the changes differential between the measured values and the baseline values stored in test system . Test system may also identify locations of any degradation using positional addressing and relative time of data in a received packet such as packet relative to the timing of initial command pulse test signal . In other implementations packet may includes tags identifying each CM that analyzed the reflected pulse data. In this manner test system may identify which portion of cable and or fixture sign that is associated with the data in packet .

In some implementations test system may output information associated with testing system on output device such as a liquid crystal display LCD screen. For example test system may output diagnostic information associated with any faults problems via an LCD screen along with geographical location information identifying the approximate location of faults or other problems. This may allow personnel at test system to dispatch technicians to the locations where the problem exists without spending a significant amount of time trying to identify the location of the problem fault.

As discussed above CM may include grounding relay . In one implementation grounding relay may detect a lightning strike or other voltage surge on the particular light fixture in which grounding relay is located and immediately short that particular light fixture to ground. For example assume that light fixture is hit by lightning and a voltage spike is imparted to cable at light fixture . In this case grounding relay may sense that the voltage on cable is greater than a predetermined amount and trip grounding relay so that isolation transformer in light fixture is grounded. In this manner the voltage spike will not cascade via cable to other downstream light fixtures .

In addition in some implementations if test system detects a problem in one of light fixtures test system may send a control signal via cable to trip the grounding relay of the light fixture that may have a problem.

In the embodiments described herein test system interposes or multiplexes data communications or test signals over cable which is simultaneously providing power to fixtures and sign . In other embodiments test system may initiate testing via cable during brief interruptions in which power cable is not supplying power to fixtures and or sign . For example CCR and test system may interrupt current for very brief periods of time e.g. a few microseconds on cable . During these brief interruptions test system may transmit test initiation signals over cable . Since the interruptions are very short light fixtures and sign may experience no adverse effects. That is the interruption of power will not cause any flickering of the light bulbs signs. In still other embodiments test system may use TDR testing to test various electrical characteristics of cable as well as light fixtures sign .

In addition in the embodiments described above test system receives returned test data from light fixtures and sign . In other implementations light fixtures and or sign may transmit the test data back to a central monitoring facility via for example low frequency wireless signals via a wireless mesh network. In still other implementations a technician may tap into one of fixtures or sign and run diagnostics via an application programming interface API or other interface provided by the fixture or sign .

The foregoing description of exemplary implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments described herein to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the embodiments.

For example implementations described above refer to a system that includes serially connected light fixtures signs. It should be understood that system may include other types of electrical devices that may be tested in a similar manner. That is system may include any type of electrical devices and or electrical loads that may be tested in the manner described above.

Although the invention has been described in detail above it is expressly understood that it will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art that the invention may be modified without departing from the spirit of the invention. Various changes of form design or arrangement may be made to the invention without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore the above mentioned description is to be considered exemplary rather than limiting and the true scope of the invention is that defined in the following claims.

No element act or instruction used in the description of the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

