---

title: Functional ASIC verification using initialization microcode sequence
abstract: A method of wafer-level testing of a register programmable integrated circuit may be provided. The method may comprise transforming a microcode instruction and related data from an initializing processor format into tester format data, and applying the tester format data to the integrated circuit on a wafer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09470760&OS=09470760&RS=09470760
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09470760
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120316
---
The invention relates generally to a method and a system of wafer level testing of a register programmable integrated circuit. The invention relates further to a data processing program and a computer program product.

VLSI very large scale integration design is making constant progress. Complexity is increasing and die sizes are decreasing. In parallel costs are increasing and time to market requirements decrease at the same time. Therefore it is a strong requirement to forward only working intermediate elements to a next production process. This applies also to ASICs application specific integrated circuit . A key role in quality assurance of a production process for such ASICs take tests at every possible stage in order to avoid continuation with a non working part in a subsequent production step. During the manufacturing process electronic circuit testing generally occurs at many levels of integration of the circuit via various testing techniques. Generally testing may occur at wafer level package level multi chip module level board level and system level. Wafer level testing may happen during early stages of a production process namely before a singularization i.e. before the chips or dies may be separated from each other and the remaining parts of a wafer.

A goal of testing at each level is to detect as many defect circuits as possible as early as possible in the production process. Passing a defect circuit to a next production phase may increase the overall production costs. The later a defect may be detected the higher the overall costs may be. Therefore manufacturers of such devices are strongly interested to decrease the number of defect parts as early as possible in the production process.

At wafer level the testing goal may be to separate good dies from bad ones before sawing and component packaging. However it may be understood that a complete functional test may only be possible at board and or system level i.e. if all supporting mechanical electrical and electronic elements are assembled in a final product. In production phases or levels thereof only substitute tests may be performed. That may include parametric testing including current monitoring testing at wafer level and or built in self tests. These so called BISTs at wafer level may use automated hardware based tests included inside the tested chip which may allow the circuit to test itself. A BIST may occur online during normal operation of the chip during an idle state or offline when the circuit may be placed in a special test mode. During wafer level testing online BIST may be employed and may generally include a hardware pseudo random vector generator and signature analysis hardware. Although the BIST techniques may be an effective method of detecting so called stuck at and delay type faults it may require costly testing time and die space for a required ROM read only memory . Additionally in a ROM based BIST the micro program based functional test may be developed and frozen by R D in the design stage before a product may be ramped to production. Thus the ROM based BIST is static and alterations may not be possible at all.

Several attempts have been made in order to better test ASICs and other VLSI chips. Document U.S. Pat. No. 5 937 154 discloses a manufacturing test system and method for testing a computing system under test which includes a computing device comprising internal emulation debug hardware and an emulation debug port through which the debug hardware is controlled. Manufacturing level micro program based functional tests are executed under the control of the internal emulation debug hardware of the computing device. A computing system probe applies the micro program based functional test to the internal emulation debug hardware of the computing device via the emulation debug port. The manufacturing level micro program based functional test may be executed at any level of a computing device integration including the wafer package board multi chip module and system levels.

Document U.S. Pat. No. 6 825 682B2 discloses a test configuration for the functional testing of a semiconductor chip. The semiconductor chip which can be subjected to a functional test for the purpose of checking the functionality of the semiconductor chip is disposed on a support material. The semiconductor chip contains a self test unit for generating test information and for carrying out the functional test. An energy source serves for providing an electrical energy supply for energy that is fed in contactlessly. The energy source is disposed on the support material and is connected to the semiconductor chip for the purpose of providing an energy supply. The test configuration makes it possible to carry out a contactless functional test and to reduce the test costs by virtue of high parallelism during the functional test of a plurality of semiconductor chips.

It may also be understood that due to the complexity of today s VLSI ASICs a complete test of all statuses and functions may not be feasible. This may apply in particular if the VLSI ASIC may include a complete processor memory and other supporting devices. It may become even more difficult if the processor s functionality may be altered by using different microcode sets. The term microcode may denote a set of instructions that may be stored inside the processor during an initialization phase. It may determine the function of the processor and its behavior in respect to external conventional program code and data. Thus different microcode sets may result in a different behavior of a processor to the same external conventional program code and data. In such a scenario a complete test of all possible microcode sets in combination with all possible external program code and data may not be feasible. Even a small subset of combinations would lead to an explosion of production cost. It may be noted that instead of the term microcode the term firmware may also be used. Also the term micro program may be a substitute for the term microcode .

However because of the limitations of the technology of the state of the art there may be a requirement for an improved method and system for a better testability of VLSI chips that may not rely on built in self tests or random signal generators. These test measures may be too late or to imprecise.

This need may be addressed by a method of wafer level testing of a register programmable integrated circuit as well as by a system of wafer level testing of a register programmable integrated circuit.

According to one embodiment a method of wafer level testing of a register programmable integrated circuit may be provided. The method may comprise transforming a microcode instruction and related data from an initializing processor format into tester format data and applying the tester format data to the integrated circuit on a wafer.

In another embodiment a system of wafer level testing of a register programmable integrated circuit may be provided. The system may comprise a transforming unit adapted for transforming a microcode instruction and related data from an initializing processor format into tester format data and an applying unit adapted for applying the tester format data to the integrated circuit on a wafer.

It may be noted that the microcode instruction may in particular comprise read and write instructions plus related data to registers of the circuit. The initializing processor format may be a format generated by a processor that may initialize the circuit. The processor may particularly be a central electronic complex CEC of a computer system comprising the circuit. Thus the microcode used by the circuit may be downloaded from the CEC to the circuit during an initialization.

Additionally it may be understood that applying the tester format data to the integrated circuit may in particular be performed to a plurality of circuits of the wafer. Applying the tester format data may be performed to the circuits particularly one after another. It may be understood that the wafer testing level may be applied by this method.

Wafer level testing The term wafer level testing may denote tests of a chip that may not have been singularized. A plurality of chips or dies may still be on a wafer. The chips or pre production elements thereof may be tested still being part of the wafer. The chips or the pre production elements thereof may be tested one after the other.

Register programmable integrated circuit This term may denote a register programmable ASIC or in short ASIC which may have been produced as a VLSI chip being able to execute functions e.g. I O functions for a larger processor complex. The ASIC s internal functions in particular a reaction to external signals e.g. input signals may be defined by the content of registers to be loaded externally. Consequently the ASIC may behave differently to external signals depending on the content of loaded registers which may have been loaded with specific bit patterns before the external signals may be applied. This may be useful for e.g. an I O ASIC controlling input and output operations of a computer system that may have different functions depending on the overall system the I O ASIC may be part of. It may behave differently in a mainframe computer system if compared to a midrange computer system.

Tester A tester may denote automatic test equipment for semiconductor testing. The automatic test equipment may apply power to the devices under test DUT supply stimulus signals and measure and evaluate resulting outputs from the DUT. Microscopic needles may be used by testers to contacts wafer level ASCIs or other VLSI chips or pre production elements thereof.

Tester format data The term tester format data may denote data that may be used as input signals for a tester. Testers may be controlled by such tester data. The data may be delivered to the tester in a format the tester may interpret and use to test the DUT. Thus the tester format may be pre defined.

Global error macro The term global error macro may denote a register internal to the processor that may signal a malfunction of a firmware code instruction e.g. processor internal signal conflict or timing errors. It may be implemented as a 64 bit register with all registers containing a 0 if no error may occur. In case of an internal error e.g. caused by a firmware code instruction malfunction one or more registers may change its content from 0 to 1 . The global error macro may be instrumental during testing.

Initialization The term initialization may denote a process of loading a processor or more generally a circuit with a set of firmware codes. After the initialization the processor s or circuit s functions and instructions accessible from external by a program or in particular by I O instruction sequences may be determined.

Central electronic complex The term central electronic complex CEC may denote a central processing system or parts thereof of a computer system. The term may typically be used in the context of mainframe computers. However in some instances it may also be used for RISC reduced instruction set computer systems.

The above described method of wafer level testing of a register programmable integrated circuit may provide a couple of advantages. In particular the method may allow testing an ASIC particularly in form of a processor at wafer level with real microcode code instructions instead of artificial codes that may not be relevant for real life situations. The instructions being used may comprise instructions used for initialization of the microcode code programmable processor or circuit as defined above. This may be the earliest time in a production process a processor or circuit to be manufactured may be exposed to microcode instructions. No artificial or pseudo random pattern may be used but those microcode code elements that may later in a real life environment being used as initialization instructions for the processor. Malfunctions of ASICs may be detected at a very early stage of the production process thus separating good dies from bad dies. This testing method may be used before singularizing individual chips by sawing a wafer. It may make a final system obsolete or at least in parts obsolete saving time and money.

In one embodiment the method may also comprise performing hardware and software verification by reading a global error indicator from the integrated circuit on the wafer after applying the tester format data to the integrated circuit. The global error indicator may in particular be a global error macro as defined above. Performing the hardware and software verification may particularly be done such that an ASIC function may be verified for correctness indicated by the global error indicator. E.g. all bits of the global error macro may be set to zero if a function may be performed correct. In case of an error or a signaling conflict or the like at least one bit may be set to 1 indicating a mal function of the ASIC.

In another embodiment of the method applying the tester format data to the integrated circuit on the wafer may comprise writing the data to the integrated circuit in particular to registers of the circuit or reading in particular other data from the integrated circuit particularly from registers of the circuit. In typical cases many more write cycles may be performed than read cycles. Read instructions may be used to identify the type of ASIC. A typical word size may be 64 bit. However other word lengths e.g. 32 bit 128 bit or 256 bits may be applied.

In yet another embodiment the method may comprise generating the microcode code instruction by simulating a data exchange between a simulated central electronic complex and simulating the integrated circuit. This set up may allow a test in a completely simulated environment. It may allow a test even before any of the hardware components may have been manufactured. This approach may decrease the development time of new systems and interdependencies between components of new systems in particular a CEO and an I O ASIC.

In again another embodiment of the method the simulation of the integrated circuit may be performed by using a high level design language simulator or a hardware design language simulator in particular a VHDL Simulator. The high level design language simulator may be e.g. SystemC from OSCI the Open SystemC Initiative. Thus tests may be designed in a phase the real chip may not have been produced. Additionally developers may use a standardized design language that may be used for other purposes as well. Hence skills of the developers may be reused.

In again another embodiment of the method the tester format data may be data for a very large scale integration application specific integrated circuit tester thus a VLSI ASCIC tester e.g. an Agilent 93000 SoC tester. Other VLSI ASIC tester systems may also be used. This means that no extra equipment may need to be purchased from the development labs using the method. Standard equipment may be used for saving costs and improving the testing process at the same time.

In one advantageous embodiment of the method the central electronic complex may be a central processor of a mainframe computer. Such a mainframe computer may in particular be an IBM mainframe computer. However also midrange computer processors like e.g. an IBM System p may be suitable. And the method may not be limited to these processors. Any other processor of any other computer systems may be used.

In the embodiment of the system as described above the transforming unit may be independent from a testing device or in other words an applying unit. Thus the transforming device and the testing device or tester may be separate. Different devices may allow a usage of standard equipment for the tester as already discussed above.

It may be noted that embodiments may take the form of an entire hardware implementation an entire software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention may be implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software and microcode.

In one embodiment a data processing program for execution in a data processing system may be provided comprising software code portions for performing the method as described above when the program may be run on a data processing system. The data processing system may be a computer or computer system.

Furthermore embodiments may take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purpose of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any apparatus that may contain means for storing communicating propagating or transporting the program for use by or in a connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium may be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or a semi conductor system for a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium may include a semi conductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W DVD and Blu Ray Disk.

It should also be noted that embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to different subject matters. In particular some embodiments have been described with reference to method type claims whereas other embodiments have been described with reference to apparatus type claims. However a person skilled in the art will gather from the above and the following description that unless otherwise notified in addition to any combination of features belonging to one type of subject matter also any combination between features relating to different subject matters in particular between features of the method type claims and features of the apparatus type claims is considered as to be disclosed within this document.

The aspects defined above and further aspects of the present invention are apparent from the examples of embodiments to be described hereinafter and are explained with reference to the examples of embodiments but to which the invention is not limited.

In the following a detailed description of the drawings will be given. All illustrations in the drawings may be schematic. Firstly a block diagram of the method of wafer level testing of a register programmable integrated circuit will be described. Afterwards several system components and related elements will be described.

The simulator may be a stand alone device . The simulation device may send signals to a tester interface conversion engine which may also be seen as transformation engine. From here the instructions may be directed to the VLSI ASIC tester comprising the DUT on a wafer in particular the VLSI ASIC or a plurality of DUTs one after the other.

After the sending of the read and or write operation in step a global error indicator in the circuit under test the ASIC may be read. The indicator may be a register. It may e.g. have a width of 64 bits.

In step it may be tested whether there may be any firing error bits in the global error indicator. If e.g. one bit may be on an error may be signaled. Such a bad status may be returned to the microcode simulator in step .

If there may be no error indication in test step a good status may be returned to the microcode simulator in step . Next a test may be performed whether more OILS trace entries may be in the microcode sequence step . If this question may be answered with a yes the method may continue with step . A next OILS trace entry may be generated.

If no more CILS trace entries may be available in the microcode sequence i.e. the table the simulation was successful which may be signaled in step . The end of the method may be marked with reference numeral .

This last step may be repeated for n address bits. The number n may be determined by the width of an address field.

In step the tester may send the JTAG formatted table content to the device s under test pulse by pulse wherein each pulse may be represented by a clock cycle. This may be repeated for m value bits. The number m may be determined by the width of a data word. This way a data field may be generated. The values of test data in test mode select and test data out may be one bit wide.

In the following step step an m bit test data out array may be received from the tester. The format of this array may be the same JTAG format as discussed above.

In step it may be checked whether there may be any uninitialized bits in the test data out bit array. If this question may be answered with yes the read operation may be stopped unsuccessful . Otherwise the test data out array value may be converted to a hex format and it may be saved to a specified value area for further access. Thus the read operation may successfully be ended.

In step an m bit hex register value in contrast to the address in step from the write command may be fetched and it may be converted to a bit format forming a data or value field or table. These bits from the bit format of the register value may be inserted to the TDI fields of the JTAG formatted tester translation table step . As in the read operations the tester may send the JTAG formatted table content to the device under test pulse by pulse wherein each pulse may be represented by a clock cycle step . This step may be repeated for all m value bits. In the write operation may end.

The transforming unit may also be separate but connected to the wafer tester. The wafer tester or VLSI ASIC tester may also be seen as the applying unit as discussed above.

The transforming unit may be implemented as virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used suitable for storing and or executing program code. The computer system may include one or more processor s with one or more cores per processor associated memory elements an internal storage device e.g. a hard disk an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk DVD drive a flash memory stick etc. and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . The memory elements may include a main memory employed during actual execution of the program code and a cache memory which may provide temporary storage for at least some program code or data in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from external bulk storage for execution. Elements inside the computer may be linked together by means of a bus system with corresponding adapters.

The computer system may also include input means such as a keyboard a mouse or a microphone not shown . Furthermore the computer may include output means such as a monitor e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display a light emitting diode display LED or a cathode ray tube CRT monitor . The computer system may be connected to a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network including wireless networks via a server network adapter . This may allow a coupling to other computer systems as well as to the applying unit that may be adapted for applying the tester format data to the integrated circuit on the wafer as explained above. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems do exist and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms. Generally speaking the computer system may include at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice embodiments of the invention.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further embodiments of the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment of the invention the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources.

Further software instructions to perform embodiments of the invention may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a compact disk CD a diskette a tape or any other computer readable storage device.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art benefiting from this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments may be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

It should also be noted that the term comprising does not exclude other elements or steps and a or an does not exclude a plurality. Also elements described in association with different embodiments may be combined. It should also be noted that reference signs in the claims should not be construed as limiting elements.

