---

title: Portal for automatic software installation and configuration
abstract: A portal is established between a software installer and a client to allow on-line management of a software implementation project. The installer of customizable software and the client may communicate through the portal to establish specifications for the software product. The software may be implemented by incorporating preconfigured software components into the software product. A portion of the preconfigured components may be modified based on the specifications of the client. The specifications may be identified by providing the client with a set-up wizard through the portal. The set-up wizard prompts the client for information and the software system may be configured based on logic generated in response to client input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08893121&OS=08893121&RS=08893121
owner: Allscripts Software, LLC
number: 08893121
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120915
---
The present application is a U.S. continuation patent application of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 13 193 801 filed Jul. 29 2011 which nonprovisional patent application published as U.S. patent application publication No. 2013 0031527 which patent application and any patent application publications thereof and patents issuing therefrom are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The invention relates generally to a portal for on line management of a software implementation project and more particularly to a portal established between a software installer and a client to facilitate set up configuration maintenance and support of software.

Software is often developed and customized for use in a specific corporate environment. Since many firms do not have the resources to generate their own customized software such companies outsource software development. At the initial stage of development skilled experts interview a client to identify their needs and determine how to develop the product based on the identified needs.

After the software is developed in accordance with the client s specifications the developer may provide additional services to implement and configure the software. The software company may identify and order any hardware that is necessary to provide client side support of the software e.g. a customized server . A representative of the software firm e.g. a field engineer or implementation consultant may be required to visit the client s physical site to install the software and configure any additional hardware required to support the software. The field engineer may also need to test the system and provide training before the software can be used for its intended purposes. As a result the field engineer may be required to return to the client s physical site numerous times before the software system is operating properly.

The conventional process of implementing and configuring software is both time and cost inefficient. Software implementation may be delayed by any number of reasons due to the nature of any customized process. Such reasons may include miscommunication between different software company representatives and the client wrongly configured hardware changed specifications after development has been initiated or client employees unable to attend scheduled training sessions. In addition costs may be increased due to the large number of experts that are required to complete the development installation testing and training processes. Accordingly what is needed is an improved method for implementing customized software that reduces costs and that shortens the time required to implement configure and support a complete software product.

The invention generally establishes a portal between a software installer and a client to provide on line management of a software implementation project. The portal may be used to facilitate project and installation scheduling as well as configuration distribution maintenance and support of the software. The installer and the client may communicate through the portal beginning at the earliest implementation stages to establish details of an implementation contract including assigning a project manager at the software company and identifying specifications required by the client.

The client may be provided with a set up wizard through the portal. The set up wizard prompts the client for information such that the software system may be configured based on logic generated in response to client input. Data may be migrated through the portal from the client to be stored in and accessed from memory at the installer side of the portal. The migrated data may also be converted to a format that is compatible with the reconfigured software. Communication links may be established between the client and third party entities e.g. insurance providers pharmacies via the portal. Client side users may be trained to interact with the software via tutorials that may be accessed at any time from the installer through the portal.

The installer may have a variety of different standardized software components that are used in any platform regardless of the particular software configuration. Examples of such software components may include application programming interfaces conversion modules work flows tools peripherals plug ins and the like. Accordingly a significant portion of the software system may be preconfigured for any specific application. In many cases only some of the software components require modification based on the client s specifications before being incorporated into the configured software product. Since many of the software components may be used in the same software the automation of repetitive product set up is facilitated.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention a computer implemented method may configure software by exchanging data through a web portal established between a software installer and a client. A set up wizard is provided from the installer to the client through the portal. The set up wizard prompts a user at the client to input data regarding software to be configured for the client. The input data is received at the set up wizard via the portal. At least some of the accessed software components are modified based on the received input data to generate the software configuration.

In one feature the method includes migrating data from the client through the portal for storage in memory at a location external to the client. The migrated data may be accessible by the installer and the client.

In another feature the method includes providing the configured software from the installer to the client via the portal.

In yet another feature the method includes providing a tutorial from the installer to the client via the portal. User input is received via the portal while executing the tutorial at the client.

In still another feature the method includes providing a link from the client to a third party entity via the portal.

In still yet another feature a portion of the accessed software components is preconfigured such that modification of the portion of the accessed software components is not necessary to generate the configured software.

The detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention herein makes reference to the accompanying drawings which show the exemplary embodiment by way of illustration. While these exemplary embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and reveal the best mode of doing so it should be understood that other embodiments may be realized and that logical and mechanical changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the detailed description herein is presented for purposes of illustration only and not of limitation. For example the steps recited in any of the method or process descriptions may be executed in any order and are not limited to the order presented.

For the sake of brevity conventional data networking application development and other functional aspects of the systems and components of the individual operating components of the systems may not be described in detail herein. Furthermore the connecting lines shown in the various figures contained herein are intended to represent exemplary functional relationships and or physical couplings between the various elements. It should be noted that many alternative or additional functional relationships or physical connections may be present in a practical system.

In general the invention establishes a portal between a software installer and a client to allow on line management of a software implementation project. The installer and the client may communicate through the portal to establish specifications required by the client. These specifications may be identified by providing the client with a set up wizard through the portal. The set up wizard prompts the client for information such that the software system may be configured based on logic generated in response to client input.

The installer has access to a wide range of preconfigured software components. Some of the software components may require modification based on the client s specifications. Since many of the software components do not require modification the process of configuring the software product may be expedited.

In one feature existing client side data may be migrated through the portal from the client for storage in memory external to the client and converted to a format that is compatible with the software. In another feature communication links may be established between the client and third party entities via the portal. In yet another feature of the invention client side users may be trained to interact with the software via tutorials that may be accessed at any time from the installer through the portal.

Turning to the drawings illustrates a block diagram of a computer system that may be used to practice embodiments of the present invention. is merely illustrative of an embodiment incorporating the present invention and does not limit the scope of the invention as recited in the claims. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize other variations modifications and alternatives.

In one embodiment computer system typically includes a display a keyboard an input device and a network interface . In various embodiments the input device is typically embodied as a computer mouse a trackball a track pad a joystick wireless remote drawing tablet voice command system eye tracking system and the like. The input device typically allows a user to select objects icons text and the like that appear on the monitor via a command such as a click of a button or the like.

Embodiments of the network interface typically include an Ethernet card a modem telephone satellite cable ISDN asynchronous digital subscriber line DSL unit FireWire interface USB interface and the like. For example the network interface may be coupled to a computer network to a FireWire bus or the like. In other embodiments the network interface may be physically integrated on the motherboard of a computer and may be a software program such as soft DSL or the like.

In various embodiments computer system typically includes familiar computer components such as one or more central processing units CPU memory storage devices such as a random access memory RAM and disk drives a graphics processing unit GPU and a system bus interconnecting the computer components.

Embodiments of the invention may take the form of a computer program product on a tangible computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code means embodied in the storage medium. RAM and the disk drives are examples of tangible media configured to store data such as image files models including geometrical descriptions of objects ordered geometric descriptions of objects procedural descriptions of models scene descriptor files shader code a rendering engine embodiments of the present invention including executable computer code human readable code or the like. Other types of tangible media include floppy disks removable hard disks optical storage media such as CD ROMS DVDs and bar codes semiconductor memories such as flash memories read only memories ROMS magnetic storage devices battery backed volatile memories networked storage devices and the like.

In some embodiments computer system may also include software that enables communications over a network such as the HTTP TCP IP RTP RTSP protocols and the like. In alternative embodiments of the present invention other communications software and transfer protocols may also be used for example IPX UDP or the like.

In some embodiments of the present invention GPU may be any conventional graphics processing unit that may be user programmable. In this example GPU includes a graphics processor a number of memories and or registers and a number of frame buffers .

Embodiments of the invention are described herein in terms of functional block components screen shots optional selections and various processing steps. It should be appreciated that such functional blocks may be realized by any number of hardware and or software components configured to perform the specified functions. For example the invention may employ various integrated circuit components e.g. memory elements processing elements logic elements look up tables ETC. which may carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control devices. Similarly the software elements of the invention may be implemented with any programming or scripting language with the various algorithms being implemented with any combination of data structures objects processes routines or other programming elements. Further it should be noted that embodiments of the invention may employ any number of conventional techniques for data transmission signaling data processing network control and the like.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art embodiments of the invention may be embodied as a customization of an existing system an add on product upgraded software a stand alone system a distributed system a method a data processing system a device for data processing and or a computer program product. Accordingly embodiments of the invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining aspects of both software and hardware.

As stated embodiments of the invention are described herein with reference to block diagrams and flowchart illustrations of methods apparatus e.g. systems and computer program products. It will be understood that each functional block of the block diagrams and the flowchart illustrations and combinations of functional blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations respectively can be implemented by computer program instructions.

These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose computer a special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Accordingly functional blocks of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each functional block of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations and combinations of functional blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations can be implemented by either special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or steps or suitable combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions. Further illustrations of the process flows and the descriptions thereof may make reference to user windows web pages websites web forms prompts etc.

The client may represent any entity that requires customizable software while the installer may represent a software development entity that has been hired by the client to configure and install the software. For purposes of explanation alone the client may be a health care facility such as a hospital an out patient health care clinic or a doctor s office and the installer may be an organization that develops software for the healthcare industry. However as one having ordinary skill in the art of computing would appreciate the invention is not so limited.

The client initiates the software implementation process by informing the installer that the client requires implementation of customizable software for its organization. After agreeing on the basic terms for providing the software including the appointment of a project manager the installer establishes a portal directly to the client . The portal may be defined as a web site that may provide links to information provided by the installer . A project manager appointed to the implementation project may act as a main point of contact between the client and the installer.

The portal is established to provide access control and procedures for multiple applications that when executed cause data to be transferred between the installer and the client . Specifically the portal allows both the installer and the client to manage the software implementation project. The portal provides the client and the installer with information regarding the status of every project task performed or scheduled to be performed. For example the portal may be used to facilitate project scheduling as well as configuration distribution implementation support and maintenance of the software as discussed in detail below .

Once the portal is established the installer and the client may use the portal to negotiate the terms of a contract. The client may set forth the specifications required for the software product. Other terms may be established using the portal such as those related to budgeting projected implementation date status updates testing procedures and training plans.

The client may require a software product that provides a unique set of functionality. The unique aspects may be based on the application for which the software is being configured the hardware used by the client the operating system platform operated by the hardware and the amount of available memory to name a few. Conventionally a representative of the software company would be required to assess the client s intended use of the software and to identify different aspects of the client s computing environment such that the software would provide the desired results while also being compatible with the client s computing environment.

In order to reduce the amount of manpower required to implement the software a set up wizard may be provided to the client through the portal . The set up wizard prompts the client for information regarding the application specifications required by the client and information related to the client s existing computing system. Example questions proposed to the client by the set up wizard may include the following Do you want a laboratory interface established Do you want to make templates available from the new software 

The client provides set up responses to the questions proposed by the set up wizard . The set up responses may be provided to the installer as logic input such that the software system may be configured and installed based on the logic generated in response to client input.

The installer identifies the different requirements for implementing the client s software system in response to receiving the set up responses . Some of the requirements may need to be implemented by generating software code specifically for the client . Other requirements may be fulfilled by accessing any of a variety of prefabricated standardized software components that may be used in many different platforms regardless of the particular software configuration e.g. work flows tools application programming interfaces conversion modules peripherals etc. Some of the preconfigured software components may require modification based on the client s set up responses to provide a software product that operates within the client s established specifications. Accordingly since a significant portion of the software system may be preconfigured for any specific application some of the steps in implementing the customizable software product may be automated.

The set up wizard may also be used to establish communication links between the client and third party entities via the portal . The third party entity may be an insurance provider a laboratory a pharmacy a healthcare specialist a government agency a data storage facility or any other entity that may require data that is transmitted through the portal between the client and the installer .

As stated above the set up wizard is controlled by the installer for eliciting information from the client . When the set up wizard requires updating or correction only the version of the set wizard that is stored at the installer need be modified before being distributed to the client . This feature is advantageous because each individual client does not require a specific update to the set up wizard thereby reducing the amount of client installer interaction.

After the initial configuration of the software system is established based on the set up wizard the installer may forward a data migration wizard to the client . The client may interact with the data migration wizard to establish parameters for having data automatically entered into the software system such that the data is available for access by the newly configured software. The data to be migrated may include existing patient records including personal information medical history prescriptions previously observed symptoms laboratory results etc. Other data that may be migrated includes billing information such as the codes used to identify different medical procedures. In response to client input to the data migration wizard the data may be retrieved from client memory and stored in memory at the installer . In some embodiments the migrated data or a portion of the migrated data may be stored at a third party that is also connected to the portal . If necessary the installer or the third party may convert the migrated data into a format that is compatible with the newly configured software system.

The installer may further configure the software system in accordance with the client s specifications. This process may include retrieving the software components that are required for the software product and modifying some of the software components based on the set up responses . The installer may also develop new software components by writing additional code to include components that were not preconfigured and to support the software product in the client s computing environment. Additional required hardware may also be ordered and installed at the client to support the software system.

When an initial configuration of the software product is completed the software product may be delivered from the installer to the client via the portal . If all of the required hardware is installed at the client the installer may be able to complete the installation process through the portal without being physically present at the client s site. A testing process may then be executed by exchanging testing data between the installer and the client to insure that the software is operating in accordance with the client s specifications. The testing process may also check whether the migrated data stored at the installer or the third party is accessible to the client via the portal .

Once the completed software product is installed at the client and the data is accessible to operate the system training tutorials may be provided at any time to educate users at the client . A user who requires training may submit a request to the installer through the portal to access the training tutorial . In response the installer provides the training tutorial to the client . As the user interacts with the training tutorial at the client tutorial data is generated and may be forwarded to the installer through the portal .

After the client hires the installer to implement a customizable software system a portal is established between the installer and the client step . The portal may be established as a web site that is accessible only to the client such that the client can communicate directly with the installer to facilitate management of the software configuration process. A project manager may be appointed to handle all incoming communications from the client to manage scheduling of configuration distribution implementation support and maintenance of the software. The portal allows both the installer and the client to assess the status of any specific task of the software implementation process.

The portal is used to provide a set up wizard to the client step . The set up wizard provides a series of prompts to the user to identify specific client needs regarding specifications of the software product to be implemented. The prompts may also illicit information from the user to identify the capabilities of the existing hardware system used by the client that is intended to support the software product. The set up wizard may also be used to establish specific contract terms regarding the configuration of the software.

The client receives the responses to the set up wizard prompts from the user step . The user may enter the information by any known data input technique. In some cases some responses to the prompts may be determined by scanning the hardware or memory on the client side such that a user is not required to physically enter any data in response to the prompt.

As data is collected in reply to the prompts from the set up wizard the collected data is provided from the client to the installer via the portal step . The installer may provide additional prompts at any time during the implementation process in order to illicit any additional information that may be necessary to continue configuring the software.

The data received from the client in response to the prompts from the set up wizard may identify that the client desires a communication link between the client and a third party entity. Accordingly the installer includes the communication link from the client to a third party entity via the portal step . The communication link allows the client to communicate directly with a desired third party entity without having to circumvent the portal established between the client and the installer. Examples of such third party entities may include a laboratory a specialist a general practitioner a hospital a pharmacy an insurance provider or a data storage facility.

The installer may provide a data migration wizard to the client via the portal step . The data migration wizard prompts the client to prompt the client to determine if the client approves the transfer of existing data to the installer or a third party and to identify which data is to be migrated. Data migration from client memory to the installer or a third party data storage facility would prevent the need to re enter existing data for access by the implemented software product. Also the data would be readily accessible from and managed by the installer or third party thereby easing the burden of data management at the client.

In response to client input to the data migration wizard the existing data may be migrated from the client to the installer or third party via the portal step . The data that is migrated may include any data stored at the client that may be required to be accessed by the implemented software product e.g. patient records medical history insurance information billing and accounting information etc. The data may be retrieved from memory at the client side and transferred to memory at the installer or third party via the portal.

The migrated data may not be in a format that is compatible with the re configured software system. Accordingly the migrated data may be converted to a format that is compatible with the software product configured by the installer step .

Once the software system is configured in accordance with client specifications and the data is accessible in a suitable format the software product is distributed to the client via the portal step . The installer may also provide software installation instructions to the client through the portal.

After the software is installed the installer may test the software via the portal by initiating a data exchange between the installer and the client step . In response to test results the installer may modify the software to overcome any errors. The modifications may be provided to the client via the portal.

A new user at the client may request installer support or training to become familiar with the newly configured system. In response the client submits the requested support information or a tutorial via the portal for access by the new user step . As the new user interacts with the support information tutorial data is exchanged between the client and the installer via the portal step .

As described above a portal is provided between a client and a software installer to facilitate a software configuration process. The portal improves information exchange between the client and the installer. The client may access a wizard and other tools via the portal to configure and implement a software system. The portal allows many repeatable steps in the configuration and installation processes to be automated because many software products include many of the same components.

Although the present invention is described with respect to software configuration in the healthcare field the invention is not so limited. That is it is contemplated that the invention may be used with any software that is implemented for any type of use in any field.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described herein with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as critical required or essential features or elements of any or all the claims or the invention. The scope of the invention is accordingly to be limited by nothing other than the appended claims. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the above described exemplary embodiments that are known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the present claims. Further no element described herein is required for the practice of the invention unless expressly described as essential or critical. 

It should be understood however that the detailed description and specific examples indicating exemplary embodiments of the invention are given for purposes of illustration only and not as limitations. Many changes and modifications within the scope of the instant invention may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and the invention includes all such modifications. Corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or acts for performing the functions in combination with other claim elements as specifically claimed. The scope of the invention should be determined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents rather than by the examples given above.

