---

title: Providing notice and receiving consent to obtain location information of a mobile device
abstract: A system for receiving user consent to obtaining location information of a mobile device includes a communications interface configured for communication with a mobile device, a validation logic configured to identify the mobile device at least in part by obtaining an identifier associated with the mobile device, and a notification logic configured to communicate a signal including data representing an automated voice message. The automated voice message provides a notice or the location of a notice including information indicating to the user of the mobile device that consenting to the obtaining of the location information of the mobile device would result in the location information of the mobile device being disclosed. The communications interface is configured to transmit the automated voice message to the mobile device, and to receive from the mobile device data indicating the user consent for obtaining the location information of the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08275358&OS=08275358&RS=08275358
owner: MacroPoint LLC
number: 08275358
owner_city: Cleveland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120301
---
The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for obtaining the location of an electronic device. More specifically the present disclosure relates to systems and methods for providing notification to and receiving consent from a user whose mobile device s location is to be obtained.

In one example application of the use of location information carriers shippers freight hauling services providers third party logistics service providers and courier services providers as well as other logistics and freight service providers freight hauling benefit from obtaining the location of vehicles in their fleets or under contract. Obtaining the location of vehicles helps improve efficiency because it allows for real time or near real time decision making when matching loads with vehicles. For example by obtaining the location of fleet vehicles a dispatcher may better understand which vehicle is the most appropriate e.g. geographically closest appropriate size etc. to send to a location for a load pickup. Conventional systems for obtaining vehicle location have relied on global positioning systems GPS to provide the vehicle s location. Some of these systems require the installation of dedicated equipment in the vehicles which may be an expensive proposition.

Similar and additional benefits may be obtained from the use of location information in applications other than freight hauling.

Alternative methods for obtaining location information include cellular triangulation or multilateration methods that are capable of locating mobile devices in a cellular network. These methods involve the measurement of radio signals strength between a mobile device and radio towers in the network. The technology originally intended by telecommunication companies to approximate the location of a mobile phone provides the location of the mobile phone and presumably the location of its user. In one example where the user of the mobile device is the driver of a freight vehicle this technology may be used to obtain the location of the vehicle.

The use of this location information technology however raises privacy issues. A user s privacy may be at risk if location information is misused or disclosed without the authorization or knowledge of the user. To address these privacy concerns various governmental and business organizations have developed rules and guidelines to protect user privacy. For example the International Association for the Wireless Telecommunications Industry CTIA has developed Best Practices and Guidelines for Location Based Services the CTIA Guidelines which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The Guidelines provide a framework based on two principles user notice and consent. Users must receive meaningful notice about how location information will be used disclosed and protected so that users can make informed decisions . . . and . . . have control over their location information. Users must also consent to the use or disclosure of location information and have the right to revoke consent . . . at any time. 

Although electronic methods have been developed that make use of web browsers and SMS texting capabilities of mobile devices to provide notification and consent some of these systems have proved inconvenient and may require advanced mobile devices or extensive user training.

In one embodiment of the present invention a method for receiving consent from a user to obtain location information of a mobile device includes participating in a telephone call with the mobile device identifying the mobile device at least in part by obtaining an identifier associated with the mobile device communicating to the user via an automated voice message transmitted to the mobile device at least one of a a notice including information indicating that consenting to the obtaining of the location information of the mobile device would result in the location information of the mobile device being disclosed and b a location at which to find the notice. The method further includes receiving from the mobile device a signal including data indicating user consent to obtain the location information of the mobile device.

In one embodiment a method for receiving from a user a revocation of consent to obtain location information of a mobile device includes participating in a telephone call with the mobile device identifying the mobile device at least in part by obtaining an identifier associated with the mobile device communicating to the user via an automated voice message transmitted to the mobile device information indicating that consent to obtain the location information is revocable via the mobile device and receiving from the mobile device a signal including data indicating revocation of the consent to obtain the location information of the mobile device.

In one embodiment a system for receiving user consent to obtain location information of a mobile device includes a communications interface configured for communication with a mobile device a validation logic configured to identify the mobile device at least in part by obtaining an identifier associated with the mobile device and a notification logic configured to communicate a signal including data representing an automated voice message including at least one of a a notice including information indicating to the user of the mobile device that consenting to the obtaining of the location information of the mobile device would result in the location information of the mobile device being disclosed and b a location at which to find the notice. The communications interface is configured to transmit the automated voice message to the mobile device and to receive from the mobile device data indicating the user consent to obtaining the location information of the mobile device.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the art to convey the substance of their work to others. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a sequence of operations that produce a result. The operations may include physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily the physical quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated in a logic and the like.

It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be borne in mind however that these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise it is appreciated that throughout the description terms like processing computing calculating determining displaying or the like refer to actions and processes of a computer system logic processor or similar electronic device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities.

In the present disclosure embodiments are described in the context of location information of freight hauling vehicles. It will be appreciated however that the exemplary context of freight hauling vehicles is not the only operational environment in which aspects of the disclosed systems and methods may be used. Therefore the techniques described in this disclosure may be applied to any type of appropriate electronic device whose location information may be of interest.

The system further includes a validation logic that is configured to identify the mobile device at least in part by obtaining an identifier associated with the mobile device . Obtaining the identifier associated with the mobile device ensures that the right party the user is notified that location information of the mobile device will be used and that the right party the user consents to the use of the location information. In one embodiment the identifier is a telephone number associated with the mobile device . In one embodiment where the communications interface is associated with a toll free number as discussed above the validation logic is configured to identify the mobile device at least in part by obtaining the telephone number associated with the mobile device via automatic number identification ANI . In other embodiments the identifier is an identifier other than a telephone number. For example the identifier may be a mobile identification number MIN an electronic serial number ESN an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI a Mobile Equipment Identifier MEID a Manufacturer s Serial Number MSN a Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Digital Network MSISDN number a Media Access Control MAC address combinations thereof and so on.

The system further includes a notification logic that is configured to communicate a signal including data representing an automated voice message. In one embodiment the automated voice message provides a notice to the user of the mobile device that includes information indicating to the user that consenting to the obtaining of the location information of the mobile device would result in the location information of the mobile device being disclosed. In another embodiment the automated voice message provides to the user of the mobile device a location web address etc. where the user can find the notice indicating to the user that consenting to the obtaining of the location information of the mobile device would result in the location information of the mobile device being disclosed. For example the automated voice message may indicate that the notice may be found at a web address and provide the web address to the user.

The communications interface is configured to receive the automated message signal communicated by the notification logic and transmit the automated voice message to the mobile device . The communications interface is further configured to receive from the mobile device data indicating the user consent for obtaining the location information of the mobile device .

In one embodiment the automated voice message communicates to the user that the user may indicate the user s consent to the obtaining of the location information of the mobile device by performing an action on the mobile device e.g. to indicate your consent to the obtaining of your telephone s location information please press 1. In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to receive data indicating that an action was performed on the mobile device which indicates the user s consent e.g. the user pressed 1 .

In another embodiment the automated voice message communicates to the user that the user may indicate the user s consent to the obtaining of the location information of the mobile device by speaking a particular word or phrase to be received by the mobile device e.g. to indicate your consent to the obtaining of your telephone s location information please say yes. In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to receive a voice command from the mobile device which indicates the user s consent e.g. the user said yes .

In one embodiment upon receiving the data indicating the user consent for obtaining the location information of the mobile device the communications interface transmits a request for the location information of the mobile device and receives the location information of the mobile device. The request for the location information of the mobile device includes the identifier associated with the mobile device .

In the illustrated embodiment upon receiving the data indicating the user consent for obtaining the location information of the mobile device the communications interface transmits a request for the location information of the mobile device to a location information provider and receives the location information of the mobile device from the location information provider . The location information provider is a party that has access to the mobile device s location information.

In one embodiment the location information provider is a wireless service provider. In another embodiment the location information provider is a third party that receives the location information from the wireless service provider. In yet another embodiment the location information provider is a party other than the wireless service provider or a third party. For example the party seeking to obtain the location information the obtaining party may have access to the location information. In another example the party operating the system may have access to the location information.

In one embodiment the communications interface is further configured to communicate the location information to the obtaining party . In an example involving freight hauling services providers or freight carriers the obtaining party may be a carrier who is interested in obtaining the location of its vehicles or vehicles under contract. In one embodiment multiple parties may be interested in obtaining the location of the same vehicles and so the communications interface is configured to communicate the location information to multiple parties.

In one embodiment the communications interface is configured to communicate the location information to the obtaining party by transmitting the location information of the mobile device to the obtaining party through computer communication. The location information may then be displayed in a user interface not shown . In another embodiment the communications interface is configured to communicate the location information to the obtaining party by exposing an application programming interface API through which the obtaining party can access the location information of the mobile device . The obtaining party can make use of the API to make the information available to its enterprise software e.g. SAP Oracle etc. 

The CTIA Guidelines further state that mobile device users must be allowed to revoke their prior consent to use or disclose location information. In one embodiment the notification logic is further configured to communicate a signal including data representing a second automated voice message indicating that consent to obtain the location information is revocable via the mobile device . In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to communicate to the mobile device the second automated voice message and to receive confirmation of consent or revocation of consent to obtain the location information of the mobile device from the user.

In one embodiment the second automated voice message communicates to the user that to indicate the user s confirmation of consent or the user s revocation of consent to the obtaining of the location information of the mobile device the user must perform an action on the mobile device e.g. to indicate that you wish to revoke consent to the obtaining of your telephone s location information please press 1. In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to receive data indicating that an action was performed on the mobile device which indicates the user s confirmation or revocation of consent e.g. the user pressed 1 .

In another embodiment the second automated voice message communicates to the user that to indicate the user s confirmation of consent or the user s revocation of consent to the obtaining of the location information of the mobile device the user must speak a particular word or phrase to be received by the mobile device e.g. to indicate your confirmation of consent to the obtaining of your telephone s location information please say confirmed. In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to receive a voice command from the mobile device which indicates the user s confirmation or revocation of consent e.g. the user said confirmed .

In one embodiment the user is given the option to temporarily revoke consent to the disclosure of location information. For example a driver may wish to make available his location to a carrier during certain hours during the work week but may not want the carrier to be able to obtain the driver s location during the weekend. The driver may operate the mobile device to indicate a date and time when the driver wishes for the sharing of his location information to end or resume. Or the driver may operate the mobile device to indicate an interval of time e.g. 2 hours during which the driver wishes to hide the driver s location. In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to receive data indicating a time until which consent to obtain the location information of the mobile device is granted or revoked or an interval of time during which consent to obtain the location information of the mobile device is granted or revoked.

In one embodiment the user is given the option to temporarily revoke consent to the disclosure of location information by texting e.g. SMS message the term hide using the mobile device . In one embodiment the user is given the option to indicate consent to the disclosure of location information by texting e.g. SMS message the term share using the mobile device . In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to receive the text message as sent by the mobile device which indicates the user s confirmation or revocation of consent. In another embodiment the user may speak the terms hide or share to temporarily revoke consent or to indicate consent to the disclosure of location information respectively. In this embodiment the communications interface is configured to receive a voice command from the mobile device which indicates the user s confirmation or revocation of consent.

In one embodiment when the location information of the mobile device is being disclosed the notification logic is further configured to periodically generate and the communications interface is further configured to periodically communicate a reminder notification message reminding the user that the location information of the mobile device is currently being disclosed. In one embodiment the system reminds the user every 30 days that the location information of the mobile device is currently being disclosed. In another embodiment the system reminds the user more or less often than every 30 days that the location information of the mobile device is currently being disclosed.

In one embodiment the communications interface reminds the user in an automated voice message that the location information of the mobile device is currently being disclosed. In another embodiment the communications interface reminds the user in an SMS message that the location information of the mobile device is currently being disclosed. In yet another embodiment the communications interface reminds the user via electronic communication other than an automated voice message and an SMS message that the location information of the mobile device is currently being disclosed.

Example methods may be better appreciated with reference to the flow diagrams of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the illustrated methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders or concurrently with other blocks from that shown or described. Moreover less than all the illustrated blocks may be required to implement an example methodology. Furthermore additional or alternative methodologies can employ additional not illustrated blocks.

In the flow diagrams blocks denote processing blocks that may be implemented with logic. The processing blocks may represent a method step or an apparatus element for performing the method step. A flow diagram does not depict syntax for any particular programming language methodology or style e.g. procedural object oriented . Rather a flow diagram illustrates functional information one skilled in the art may employ to develop logic to perform the illustrated processing. It will be appreciated that in some examples program elements like temporary variables routine loops and so on are not shown. It will be further appreciated that electronic and software applications may involve dynamic and flexible processes so that the illustrated blocks can be performed in other sequences that are different from those shown or that blocks may be combined or separated into multiple components. It will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented using various programming approaches like machine language procedural object oriented or artificial intelligence techniques.

In one example methodologies are implemented as processor executable instructions or operations provided on a computer readable medium. Thus in one example a computer readable medium may store processor executable instructions operable to perform the methods of .

While illustrate various actions occurring in serial it is to be appreciated that various actions illustrated in could occur substantially in parallel. While a number of processes are described it is to be appreciated that a greater or lesser number of processes could be employed and that lightweight processes regular processes threads and other approaches could be employed. It is to be appreciated that other example methods may in some cases also include actions that occur substantially in parallel.

In other embodiments the identifier is an identifier other than a telephone number. For example the identifier may be a mobile identification number MIN an electronic serial number ESN an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI a Mobile Equipment Identifier MEID a Manufacturer s Serial Number MSN a Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Digital Network MSISDN number a Media Access Control MAC address combinations thereof and so on.

At the method includes transmitting to the mobile device a signal including data representing an automated voice message. The automated voice message communicates to the user of the mobile device at least one of a a notice including information indicating that consenting to the obtaining of the location information of the mobile device would result in the location information of the mobile device being disclosed or b a location at which to find the notice. At the method includes receiving from the user via the mobile device consent for obtaining the location information of the mobile device.

In one embodiment the receiving from the mobile device consent for obtaining the location information of the mobile device includes receiving data indicating that the user of the mobile device has performed an action on the mobile device. For example the user may have pressed a key in the mobile device touched or swipe a particular portion of the device s screen shaken the mobile device combinations thereon and so on. In another embodiment the receiving from the mobile device consent for obtaining the location information of the mobile device includes receiving a voice command from the mobile device.

In one embodiment once consent has been obtained from the user of the mobile device the method includes periodically communicating to the user via the mobile device a notification message indicating that the location information of the mobile device is being disclosed.

In one embodiment after receiving from the user consent for obtaining the location information of the mobile device the method includes transmitting a request for the location information of the mobile device and receiving the location information of the mobile device.

In one embodiment after receiving the location information of the mobile device the method includes communicating the location information to an obtaining party. In one embodiment communicating the location information to the obtaining party includes a transmitting the location information of the mobile device to the obtaining party through computer communication or b exposing an application programming interface API from which the obtaining party can access the location information of the mobile device.

At the method includes communicating to the user via an automated voice message transmitted to the mobile device information indicating that consent to obtain the location information is revocable via the mobile device. At the method includes receiving from the mobile device revocation of the consent to obtain the location information of the mobile device.

In one embodiment the receiving from the mobile device revocation of consent for obtaining the location information of the mobile device includes receiving data indicating that the user of the mobile device has performed an action on the mobile device. For example the user may have pressed a key in the mobile device touched or swipe a particular portion of the device s screen shaken the mobile device combinations thereon and so on. In another embodiment the receiving from the mobile device revocation of consent for obtaining the location information of the mobile device includes receiving a voice command from the mobile device.

In one embodiment the revocation of consent is temporary and the receiving from the mobile device revocation of the consent to obtain the location information of the mobile device includes receiving data indicating a a time at which consent to obtain location information of the mobile device is revoked b a time until which the consent to obtain the location information of the mobile device is revoked or c an interval of time during which the consent to obtain the location information of the mobile device is revoked. Consent is revoked at the time indicated or at the beginning of the indicated interval of time. Consent is unrevoked at the indicated time until which the consent to obtain the location information of the mobile device is revoked or upon expiration of the indicated interval of time during which the consent to obtain the location information of the mobile device is revoked.

In one embodiment the user is given the option to temporarily revoke consent to the disclosure of location information by texting e.g. SMS message the term hide using the mobile device . In one embodiment the user is given the option to indicate consent to the disclosure of location information by texting e.g. SMS message the term share using the mobile device . In another embodiment the user may speak the terms hide or share to temporarily revoke consent or to indicate consent to the disclosure of location information respectively.

In the illustrated embodiment the user interface displays Start End Obtaining buttons operable by a user to end and start obtaining of the location information of a mobile device. The user interface further displays the Telephone Number corresponding to the mobile device to be obtained. The user interface further displays the Tracking Term which corresponds to the amount of time that the associated Telephone Number will be obtained. The user interface further displays the Tracking Interval which corresponds to how often the location information corresponding to the Telephone Number is updated. In the illustrated embodiment the user interface displays the Location Information as latitude and longitude coordinates. In another embodiment the user interface displays the Location Information in a format other than latitude and longitude coordinates. In one embodiment a user may click on the Location Information to display a map that includes a mark indicating the location of the mobile device associated with the Telephone Number on the map.

In the illustrated embodiment the user interface displays a Partner Code. The Partner Code field may display a code corresponding to a partner company or driver. For example a carrier A may subcontract with another carrier NAT to move freight from location 1 to location 2. The user interface displays the carrier NAT associated with the Telephone Number 555 555 5555.

The user interface further displays a Reference Number. In one embodiment the Reference Number field is a customizable field that carriers can use to identify a particular load a particular vehicle a particular order etc. In one embodiment the Reference Number appears in invoices and other documents to facilitate efficient system administration.

The user interface further displays the Status of the mobile device associated with the Telephone Number. For example the Status may indicate that the system is Tracking the mobile device. In another example the Status may display that the mobile device is Hidden to indicate that the user of the mobile device has temporarily revoked consent to disclosure of the mobile device s location information. Other possible Status indicators include a Ready to obtain which indicates that the obtaining of the location information is setup and the system is awaiting location information data b Expired which indicates that the Tracking Term has expired and c Denied which indicates that the user denied consent to obtaining of the location information.

In one embodiment the user interface is used to add mobile devices whose location is to be obtained. A user may use field to enter the Telephone Number of the mobile device whose location is to be obtained. In one embodiment not illustrated the user interface provides a pull down menu from which the user may chose a Telephone Number. The user may further enter the Tracking Term in field the Tracking Interval in field the Partner Code in field and the Reference Number in field . In one embodiment not illustrated the user interface provides each of these fields as pull down menus.

In some cases the obtaining party user may not know the Telephone Number of the mobile device or the user may know the Telephone Number but not have authorization to obtain the mobile device associated with the Telephone Number. In one embodiment not shown the user may enter a Partner Code that serves as verification that the user has obtained authorization from the partner to obtain location information of the mobile device associated with the Telephone Number. This feature may also serve to keep the user from learning the telephone number of the mobile device in cases where the mobile device user the partner or some other party desires not to reveal the telephone number to the obtaining party user.

In one embodiment the mobile device user may enter the Partner Code. For example the mobile device user may be an independent driver who wishes for the location information of his mobile device to be obtained by a carrier so that the carrier may assign freight for the driver to haul. However the carrier may not want every driver in the field to do this freely because of the potential costs associated with obtaining of the location information of a large number of drivers. The carrier may require the driver to enter a Partner Code obtained from the carrier that serves as verification that the driver has obtained authorization from the carrier for the location information of his mobile device to be obtained by the carrier.

Referring now to an application programming interface API is illustrated providing access to a system for communicating location information of a mobile device to an obtaining party. The API can be employed for example by a programmer or a process to gain access to processing performed by the system . For example a programmer can write a program to access the system e.g. invoke its operation obtain its operation set up its operation obtain location information where writing the program is facilitated by the presence of the API . Rather than programmer having to understand the internals of the system the programmer merely has to learn the interface to the system . This facilitates encapsulating the functionality of the system while exposing that functionality.

Similarly the API can be employed to provide data values to the system or retrieve data values from the system . For example a process that processes location information of a mobile device can provide a telephone number to the system via the API by for example using a call provided in the API . Thus in one example of the API a set of application programming interfaces can be stored on a computer readable medium. The interfaces can be employed by a programmer computer component logic and so on to gain access to a system for obtaining location information of a mobile device.

The processor can be a variety of various processors including dual microprocessor and other multi processor architectures. The memory can include volatile memory or non volatile memory. The non volatile memory can include but is not limited to ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM and the like. Volatile memory can include for example RAM synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM and direct RAM bus RAM DRRAM .

A disk may be operably connected to the computer via for example a communications interface e.g. card device and an I O Ports . The disk can include but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive a solid state disk drive a floppy disk drive a tape drive a Zip drive a flash memory card or a memory stick. Furthermore the disk can include optical drives like a CD ROM a CD recordable drive CD R drive a CD rewriteable drive CD RW drive or a digital video ROM drive DVD ROM . The memory can store processes or data for example. The disk or memory can store an operating system that controls and allocates resources of the computer .

The bus can be a single internal bus interconnect architecture or other bus or mesh architectures. While a single bus is illustrated it is to be appreciated that computer may communicate with various devices logics and peripherals using other busses that are not illustrated e.g. PCIE SATA Infiniband 1394 USB Ethernet . The bus can be of a variety of types including but not limited to a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus a crossbar switch or a local bus. The local bus can be of varieties including but not limited to an industrial standard architecture ISA bus a microchannel architecture MCA bus an extended ISA EISA bus a peripheral component interconnect PCI bus a universal serial USB bus and a small computer systems interface SCSI bus.

The computer may interact with input output devices via communications interface and I O Ports . Input output devices can include but are not limited to a keyboard a microphone a pointing and selection device cameras video cards displays disk network devices and the like. The I O Ports can include but are not limited to serial ports parallel ports and USB ports.

The computer can operate in a network environment and thus may be connected to network devices via the communications interface or the I O Ports . Through the network devices the computer may interact with a network. Through the network the computer may be logically connected to remote computers. The networks with which the computer may interact include but are not limited to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and other networks. The network devices can connect to LAN technologies including but not limited to fiber distributed data interface FDDI copper distributed data interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 token ring IEEE 802.5 wireless computer communication IEEE 802.11 Bluetooth IEEE 802.15.1 Zigbee IEEE 802.15.4 and the like. Similarly the network devices can connect to WAN technologies including but not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like integrated services digital networks ISDN packet switching networks LTE networks GSM networks GPRS networks CDMA networks and digital subscriber lines DSL . While individual network types are described it is to be appreciated that communications via over or through a network may include combinations and mixtures of communications.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples forms or both of components that fall within the scope of a term and that may be used for implementation. The examples are not intended to be limiting. Both singular and plural forms of terms may be within the definitions.

As used in this application the term computer component refers to a computer related entity either hardware firmware software a combination thereof or software in execution. For example a computer component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be computer components. One or more computer components can reside within a process or thread of execution and a computer component can be localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers.

 Computer communication as used herein refers to a communication between two or more computing devices e.g. computer personal digital assistant cellular telephone and can be for example a network transfer a file transfer an applet transfer an email a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP transfer and so on. A computer communication can occur across for example a wireless system e.g. IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.15 an Ethernet system e.g. IEEE 802.3 a token ring system e.g. IEEE 802.5 a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a point to point system a circuit switching system a packet switching system combinations thereof and so on.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that participates in directly or indirectly providing signals instructions or data. A computer readable medium may take forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media may include for example optical or magnetic disks and so on. Volatile media may include for example optical or magnetic disks dynamic memory and the like. Transmission media may include coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and the like. Transmission media can also take the form of electromagnetic radiation like that generated during radio wave and infra red data communications or take the form of one or more groups of signals. Common forms of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic media a CD ROM other optical media punch cards paper tape other physical media with patterns of holes a RAM a ROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM or other memory chip or card a memory stick a carrier wave pulse and other media from which a computer a processor or other electronic device can read. Signals used to propagate instructions or other software over a network like the Internet can be considered a computer readable medium. 

 Data store as used herein refers to a physical or logical entity that can store data. A data store may be for example a database a table a file a list a queue a heap a memory a register and so on. A data store may reside in one logical or physical entity or may be distributed between two or more logical or physical entities.

A logic as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s or to cause a function or action from another logic method or system. For example based on a desired application or needs a logic may include a software controlled microprocessor discrete logic like an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions or the like. A logic may include one or more gates combinations of gates or other circuit components. A logic may also be fully embodied as software. Where multiple logical logics are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple logical logics into one physical logic. Similarly where a single logical logic is described it may be possible to distribute that single logical logic between multiple physical logics.

An operable connection or a connection by which entities are operably connected is one in which signals physical communications or logical communications may be sent or received. Typically an operable connection includes a physical interface an electrical interface or a data interface but it is to be noted that an operable connection may include differing combinations of these or other types of connections sufficient to allow operable control. For example two entities can be operably connected by being able to communicate signals to each other directly or through one or more intermediate entities like a processor operating system a logic software or other entity. Logical or physical communication channels can be used to create an operable connection.

 Signal as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more electrical or optical signals analog or digital signals data one or more computer or processor instructions messages a bit or bit stream or other means that can be received transmitted or detected.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more computer or processor instructions that can be read interpreted compiled or executed and that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms like routines algorithms modules methods threads or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically or statically linked libraries. Software may also be implemented in a variety of executable or loadable forms including but not limited to a stand alone program a function call local or remote a servelet an applet instructions stored in a memory part of an operating system or other types of executable instructions. It will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the form of software may depend for example on requirements of a desired application the environment in which it runs or the desires of a designer programmer or the like. It will also be appreciated that computer readable or executable instructions can be located in one logic or distributed between two or more communicating co operating or parallel processing logics and thus can be loaded or executed in serial parallel massively parallel and other manners.

Suitable software for implementing the various components of the example systems and methods described herein may be produced using programming languages and tools like Java Java Script Java.NET ASP.NET VB.NET Cocoa Pascal C C C CGI Perl SQL APIs SDKs assembly firmware microcode or other languages and tools. Software whether an entire system or a component of a system may be embodied as an article of manufacture and maintained or provided as part of a computer readable medium as defined previously. Another form of the software may include signals that transmit program code of the software to a recipient over a network or other communication medium. Thus in one example a computer readable medium has a form of signals that represent the software firmware as it is downloaded from a web server to a user. In another example the computer readable medium has a form of the software firmware as it is maintained on the web server. Other forms may also be used.

 User as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more persons software computers or other devices or combinations of these.

To the extent that the term includes or including is employed in the detailed description or the claims it is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as that term is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim. Furthermore to the extent that the term or is employed in the detailed description or claims e.g. A or B it is intended to mean A or B or both . When the applicants intend to indicate only A or B but not both then the term only A or B but not both will be employed. Thus use of the term or herein is the inclusive and not the exclusive use. See Bryan A. Garner A Dictionary of Modern Legal Usage 624 2d. Ed. 1995 .

While example systems methods and so on have been illustrated by describing examples and while the examples have been described in considerable detail it is not the intention to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the appended claims to such detail. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the systems methods and so on described herein. Additional advantages and modifications will readily appear to those skilled in the art. Therefore the invention is not limited to the specific details and illustrative examples shown or described. Thus this application is intended to embrace alterations modifications and variations that fall within the scope of the appended claims. Furthermore the preceding description is not meant to limit the scope of the invention. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

