---

title: Self-adjusting mobile platform policy enforcement agent for controlling network access, mobility and efficient use of local and network resources
abstract: Presented is a method for controlling network access for the mobile device. The method includes analyzing a first plurality of network parameters, collected by the mobile device, based on one or more local network policies. The method further includes receiving an update for the one or more local network policies from a policy server based on a second plurality of network parameters received by the policy server from a plurality of mobile devices. The method also includes rerouting data traffic for the mobile device from a first wireless network configuration to a second wireless network configuration based on the analyzing of the second plurality of network parameters and the update from the policy server. Rerouting data traffic for the mobile device may include maintaining a constant IP address utilizing a virtual network adapter within the mobile device to provide split tunneling over two or more network connections of the second wireless network configuration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09173144&OS=09173144&RS=09173144
owner: Smith Micro Software, Inc.
number: 09173144
owner_city: Aliso Viejo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120925
---
This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 540 373 filed on Sep. 28 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As the capabilities of mobile devices continue to increase wireless carrier networks supporting the mobile devices are being pushed to their capacity. Because traffic over any given wireless network is heavily dependent on variables including but not limited to the time of day and location within the network periodic under utilization and bottlenecking at different locations and times within specific networks is common. In addition conventional networks do not allow for seamless transitions from one type of network to another. For example in a conventional wireless network switching from 3G to WiFi typically causes a new IP address to be assigned within the mobile device corresponding to the new wireless connection causing termination or disruption of the original communication session. Such termination can cause disruption of the users experience. In addition suboptimal and uncoordinated methods of controlling the types of networks over which data is communicated based on individual users settings and preferences do not adequately take into account network impacts and requirements on a macroscopic network wide scale.

The present disclosure is directed to a self adjusting mobile platform policy enforcement agent for controlling network access mobility and efficient use of local and network resources substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures and as set forth more completely in the claims.

The following description contains specific information pertaining to implementations in the present disclosure. The drawings in the present application and their accompanying detailed description are directed to merely exemplary implementations. Unless noted otherwise like or corresponding elements among the figures may be indicated by like or corresponding reference numerals. Moreover the drawings and illustrations in the present application are generally not to scale and are not intended to correspond to actual relative dimensions.

Current mobile device technologies are capable of supporting multiple wireless access technologies such as 2G 3G WiFi and WiMax LTE. As the volume of data being transferred wirelessly increases mobile device users may want to access resources via any type of network available at a particular time and location. However uncoordinated connectivity methods based on single mobile device user settings and preferences may cause network resource under utilization or pressure points. Because open platforms allow network applications to run unfettered once installed by the user multiple applications frequently generate unwanted traffic. Because this traffic is broadcast over cellular networks such as 2G 3G 4G networks for example provision of associated resources over non 2G 3G 4G networks is not easily attained. Consequently current mobile device technologies do not offer the means to efficiently manage network resources made accessible through other technologies such as WiFi for example. Therefore as traffic requirements of wireless networks continue to increase service providers struggle to maintain a seamless user experience to access carrier network resources and services on non 2G 3G 4G networks.

Current access technologies allow network based policy management and enforcement of policies based on IP packet analysis in the network. However in such network based policy management schemes traffic must traverse the wireless network into the network core or to the network side access gateway before deep packet inspection DPI is performed unnecessarily wasting wireless bandwidth over the network. Moreover current network analysis may suffer from blind spots due to the impact of unavailable or under performing networks on the IP traffic patterns being analyzed. Current access technologies may separately allow client based policy management according to user actions settings. However such management is affected without regard for network pressures or resources.

The present application presents an end to end solution for wireless service providers to extend self adjusting policy from a network core to all serviced mobile devices enabling a higher quality user experience while optimizing network resource utilization over a variety of wireless access technologies. Additionally seamless mobility and security for traffic between client applications and the services being delivered makes adjustments in network access completely transparent to the end user. Such self adjusting policy may be derived from network parameters such as but not limited to the time of day a current traffic load or bandwidth on a particular network link or network a received signal strength indication RSSI the number of mobile devices on a particular network link a particular quality of service QoS standard a cost of service a location or velocity of a particular mobile device a type of connected or available network a particular subscriber plan or an application identification ID .

The present application allows data that is constantly changing whether on the network or the client or both to be taken into account when renewing policy and enforcement rules. For example utilizing statistical analysis of real time as well as previously collected network parameters reported by a collection of mobile devices on the network may provide a real time macro level understanding of the state of an entire network and facilitate the creation of predictive patterns for network access management and utilization by the mobile devices.

Grouping of network connection policies for mobile devices on the network may be based on any number of criteria. Non limiting examples of such policy grouping criteria may include a mobile device make or model a particular geographical location a particular subscriber plan or entitlement custom created groups of subscribers or any combination of subscriber information consumption patterns service type application type or network type. In this way multiple network connection policies may be developed for different groupings of mobile devices within a particular network. Because multiple network connection policies may be developed multiple goals may be achieved accordingly. Non limiting examples of such goals may include a network provider or a mobile device user choosing to optimize a particular aspect of the user experience a minimum quality of service a cost of service for a particular mobile device user or a speed of data transmission over the network. The goal or goals for which network connection policies are focused may be changed at any time.

Mobile device may potentially connect to WiFi network link via connection 4G network link via connection or 3G network link via connection depending on which link is determined most desirable for a particular network wide state. Likewise mobile devices may communicate with 3G network link via connections respectively. Each of the mobile devices may be communicatively connected to Internet through any of the network links. However in the present example Internet is connected to WiFi network link via connection 4G network link via connection and 3G network link via connection .

System may additionally include policy server which may communicate with each mobile device to administrate network wide policy driven control and management of network access and mobility. Policy server may connect to WiFi network link via connection 4G network link via connection and 3G network link via connection . In cooperation policy server and each of mobile devices and may provide local as well as network wide policy driven control and management of network access and mobility by most efficiently rerouting reshaping and or throttling data traffic for a particular mobile device from a first network configuration to a second network configuration.

In operation system may include a dual feedback loop of network connectivity management and control. A first local feedback loop may correspond to local network connectivity policies based on user preferences or connectivity policy rules for a particular mobile device such as mobile device . A user may directly enter such preferences or connectivity policy rules into mobile device or alternatively access a web based interface to create or update such preferences or connectivity policy rules. For example a user may define a rule that a 3G connection should always be utilized before a WiFi or 4G connection where possible. Here if mobile device determines that WiFi network link 4G network link and 3G network link are each available the user defined local network connectivity policy may select 3G network link as the most desirable network connection.

The second network wide feedback loop corresponds to network wide connectivity policies based on real time and or previously collected local network parameters received from several mobile devices on the network. For example policy server may receive a collection of real time local network parameters from each of mobile devices such as the particular network link on which the mobile device is communicating the amount of data being communicated the amount of interference experienced by each mobile device or any other useful metric pertaining to the particular mobile device. Policy server may receive these local network parameters and evaluate them according to service provider controlled network wide connectivity policies. Where the network wide policy maintained by policy server conflicts with that of the local network connectivity policy of any mobile device the network wide connectivity policy may override the local connectivity policy of that mobile device for the benefit of the entire network. For example policy server may determine that 3G network link is very heavily loaded based on the network parameters received from mobile devices and that all devices on the network would experience a higher quality of service if mobile device connected to WiFi network link rather than 3G network link as determined by the first local feedback loop. Accordingly policy server may send a network connectivity policy update to mobile device to automatically establish a connection with WiFi network link instead of 3G network link . Policy server may additionally send updates to each of mobile devices notifying each that 3G network link is currently heavily loaded and additional connections may not be made at this time. Alternatively where a mobile device is having a negative impact on a particular network but has become unreachable for redirection to another available network several other mobile devices on that network may be redirected to less crowded networks in order to reduce stress on the particular network.

The above described connection process may be viewed as one or more pre connect policy evaluations. System may additionally be configured to perform one or more post connection validations against the above discussed dual policy control. For example once mobile device establishes the connection to WiFi Network link an evaluation of the quality of the connection with WiFi Network link may be made with respect to the local and network wide policies to ensure the desired outcome has been achieved. Non limiting examples of post connection validations may include speed tests or received signal strength indication RSSI tests on one or more network links within the new network configuration. Accordingly system may provide self adjusting mobile platform policy enforcement for controlling and managing network access and mobility while maximizing efficient use of local and network resources.

In operation mobile device may first be connected to WiFi network link providing access to desired content such as video from internet as well as access to Policy Server which may monitor and update network policies applied by mobile device substantially as discussed above regarding mobile device and policy server in . As mobile device moves to the position denoted by mobile device the connection quality of WiFi network link may decline for any number of reasons. However 3G network link may now be in range of mobile device . Mobile device may reference its local network policy rules and determine that a connection to 3G network link is allowed and desirable at this time. This determination may be communicated to Policy Server along with several local network parameters from mobile device where the determination may be validated against network wide policy based on several network parameters received from one or more other mobile devices in the network not shown . Connection with WiFi network link may be maintained as dotted line connection while connection with 3G Network link is automatically configured. Once connection is established connection may be dropped according to a make before break operation. 3G network link now provides connection between mobile device and both Policy Server and the content from Internet .

As the mobile device continues to the location denoted by mobile device WiFi network link may come into range. Mobile device may reference its network policy rules and determine that a connection to WiFi network link is allowed and desirable at this time. Again this determination may be communicated to Policy Server along with several local network parameters from mobile device where the determination may be validated against network wide policy. Connection with 3G network link may be maintained as dotted line connection while connection with WiFi Network link is automatically configured. Once connection is established connection may be dropped in a make before break operation. WiFi network link now provides connection between mobile device and both Policy Server and the video content for example from Internet . Thus as will be described in more detail regarding a mobile device may transition from one wireless network to another wireless network seamlessly such that data communication sessions between the mobile device and remote content sources are not interrupted or required to be reset after each transition.

Self adjusting mobile platform policy enforcement agent may include Policy Rules Engine which may be configured to receive information about the current network environment of the mobile device as well as periodic policy updates from a policy server and make real time decisions regarding connectivity with one or more available wireless network links.

Event Messaging Framework may be configured to communicate with various modules within self adjusting mobile platform policy enforcement agent may provide inter communication between the different modules according to the operations of self adjusting mobile platform policy enforcement agent and may allow communication of appropriate modules with the network via virtual adapter .

Policy Rules Engine and Event Messaging Framework may each communicate with Mobile Internet Protocol MIP Flow Manager and IPsec Security Manager . MIP Flow Manager may control and manage multiple streams of IP data from the mobile device to the TCP IP stack while IPsec Security Manager may control the application of security protocols to data requiring encryption or other security features on a packet by packet basis. Moreover separate concurrent data streams may be communicated to TCP IP Stack for IP packet assembly of both unsecured and secured data streams simultaneously utilizing dual tunneling. Where dual tunneling of both secured and unsecured data streams is carried out over more than one type of network connection link one or more secured data streams may be communicated over a first type of network link while one or more unsecured data streams may be communicated over a second type of network link.

TCP IP Stack may include Virtual Adapter . As will be discussed in further detail regarding Virtual Adapter may include one or more separate virtual adapters which may allow for seamless transitions between different network connection types without breaking session by maintaining constant IP addresses for communication sessions across each connected network.

Packet Policy Manager may receive input from Policy Rules Engine and control how information is grouped into IP packets. Control signals may then be communicated to Virtual Adapter for actual construction and deconstruction of sent and received data packets respectively.

Connectivity Manager may control which network link or links the mobile device is connected to as directed by Policy Rules Engine . Connectivity Manager may communicate with Network Interface APIs to carry out any transitions from one network link to another at the network interface level. In addition when a connection is transitioned from one network link or network link type to another Connectivity Manager may institute a make before break connection policy where the network connection being transitioned to is established before breaking connection with the network being transitioned from.

Analytics Agent may collect network parameters for use by self adjusting mobile platform policy enforcement agent and for transmission to a policy server for periodic updates of network connection policies. Non limiting examples of network parameters collected may include the time of day a current traffic load on a particular network link a received signal strength indication RSSI a number of mobile devices on a particular network link a particular quality of service QoS metric a cost of service a location or velocity of a particular mobile device a type of connected or available network a particular subscriber plan or an application identification ID Analytics Agent may communicate appropriate network parameters to the Policy Rules Engine for mobile device side determination of appropriate network connection policies. Analytics Agent may also transmit appropriate data to a policy server for aggregation of network data over one or more network links from multiple mobile devices via Network Interface Adapter . Policy server side utilization of this appropriate data will be discussed in further detail regarding .

Policy Agent may periodically receive updates to network policies from the policy server. This information may be processed by Policy Agent and communicated to Policy Rules Engine where the local mobile device rules and policies may be updated to reflect the latest or most appropriate network wide connectivity policies. Thus the present inventive concepts allow simultaneous local level and network wide level feedback loops for controlling network connection policies for each mobile device on one or more wireless network links.

Self adjusting mobile platform policy enforcement agent may further include Network Interface Application Programming Interfaces APIs which may include specifications for routines data structures object classes and or variables necessary for inter module communication with Network Interface Adapter . Network Interface APIs may include one or more APIs to support communication with each of the wireless interfaces of Network Interface Adapter .

Network Interface Adapter may be configured to control transmission and reception of wireless or wired signals in a plurality of formats. Thus Network Interface Adapter may include for example WiFi interface a WiMax interface a 2G interface a 3G interface and a 4G interface for example. However the present inventive concepts are not limited to the above wireless network interfaces and Network Interface Adapter may include an interface adapter for controlling any wireless communication format without limitation. Thus in one implementation self adjusting mobile platform policy enforcement agent may directly control each of the communications interfaces such that no data traffic may be transferred to or from the mobile device without the proper network policy in place. The function of virtual adapter will now be discussed in more detail regarding .

IPv4 and the newer IPv6 standard are at the core of standards based networking methods of the Internet. However information is packetized differently according to IPv 4 compared to IPv6. Thus for maximal compatibility with current and future trends in IP based communications a mobile device according to the present application may include means for seamless construction and deconstruction of both IPv4 and IPv6 packets.

IPv4 IPv6 Apps may include any applications on the mobile device designed to operate utilizing one or both of the IPv4 and or IPv6 communication standards. These devices may communicate with an IPv6 TCP IP Stack and or an IPv4 TCP IP Stack . IPv6 TCP IP Stack may include IPv6 Virtual Adapter while IPv4 TCP IP Stack may include IPv4 Virtual Adapter .

IPv4 Virtual Adapter and IPv6 Virtual Adapter within IPv4 TCP IP Stack and IPv6 TCP IP Stack respectively may each communicate with one or more network interface adapters for example Network Interface Adapters and . Thus packetized information may be transmitted and received simultaneously through one or more network links via one or more of the network interface adapters.

In operation IPv4 Virtual Adapter and IPv6 Virtual Adapter manage bindings to real adapters within the mobile device as per packet policy of both the mobile device and a policy server as previously discussed regarding . For example packet policy may be in the form of network address translation NAT rules source versus destination identification and routing application identification and routing sequencing of tunnel and MIP signaling flow control and simultaneous bindings and traffic shaping and throttling. Each virtual adapter maintains a constant local IP address visible to applications on the mobile device as well as remote content sources based on interoperation with the Mobile IP network infrastructure as a client based or network based MIP agent. Thus IP routing to particular routes through each virtual adapter always remains the same. Accordingly data communication sessions between the mobile device and one or more remote content sources may transition from one network to another network seamlessly without breaking the session because the local IP address seen by the applications within the mobile device is maintained by the respective Virtual adapter and is not dependent on the network interface adapter used. However it is important to note that the remote content source i.e. content server sees a single IP address for the mobile device irrespective of the wireless network to which it is connected only if the service provider network operating both wireless networks has a Mobile IP support enabled and operational as part of the core network that serves both wireless networks.

Virtual Adapters and accomplish IP flow control and flow switching through the above mentioned policy based address virtualization. For example a single MIP IPv4 home address and or a single MIP IPv6 home address may be maintained on a respective virtual adapter at all times. The mobile device may maintain multiple MIP bindings with an MIP Home Agent serving the mobile device in the network through multiple concurrent IP connections. In the alternative IPv4 Virtual Adapter and IPv6 Virtual Adapter may be individually dynamically enabled and disabled to regulate data flow by IP address type thus enabling regulation of specific IP binding types to particular applications.

In addition IPv4 Virtual Adapter and IPv6 Virtual Adapter may be communicatively coupled to one another to allow real time traffic conversion and switching between IPv4 and IPv6 protocols. For example a transmitting application may be designed to operate under IPv4 protocols while a receiving application on the network may be designed to operate under IPv6 protocols. In such a case the IPv4 application may communicate IPv4 data to IPv4 Virtual Adapter . The IPv4 data may be communicated to IPv6 Virtual Adapter and converted to an IPv6 format. The IPv6 Virtual Adapter may then transmit the IPv4 based data now in an IPv6 format to the receiving application over the network. In this manner the present inventive concepts allow for compatibility between mismatched IPv4 and IPv6 applications on the mobile device and within the network.

Policy Alert Component may generate one or more alerts as to why a certain policy is affecting service. For example if the account of a mobile user is unpaid or past due Policy Alert Component may generate an alert for delivery to the associated mobile device that a particular service is unavailable due to an unpaid account balance for example. In another example a particular mobile device may be associated with a particular subscriber plan. If the particular subscriber plan does not include certain premium options for example the ability to connect to a 4G network Policy Alert Component may generate an alert for delivery to the mobile device that 4G service is not available for the mobile device on its current subscriber plan. As will be described in more detail regarding compatible network subscription upgrades may be offered to the mobile device when one or more alerts are generated by Policy Alert Component .

Policy Flow Execution Component may be configured to handle the actual network side execution of policies regarding the flow of data as maintained and adjusted by the Mobile Device Policy Broker . Mobile Knowledge Analyzer may be configured to analyze the parameters received from the mobile devices on the network for example from an Analytics Agent of one or more mobile devices as discussed regarding .

Service Access Component may be configured to monitor and control access to particular services offered by the network provider to particular mobile devices or particular classes of mobile devices in accordance with one or more network based policies or associated service plans. Traffic Translation Component may be configured to control the translation of data traffic from one format to another as required. For example Traffic Translation Component may control the translation of IPv4 formatted data packets to an IPv6 format or vise versa within Policy Server . Policy Transport Component may be configured to control the timing and reception of policy based parameters or local policy decisions from multiple mobile devices serviced by the network as well as the timing and transmission of policy updates pushed to each of the mobile devices.

Communication with Policy Server may occur over communication network which may include any wireless or wired network link or links with which Policy Server is communicatively coupled. For example Policy Server may be in communication with a mobile device as previously discussed regarding any of . Remote Policy Agent may correspond to a portion or the entirety of the self adjusting mobile platform policy enforcement agent within the mobile device. Resources Services Delivery Gateway may correspond to any server responsible for controlling the delivery of services and or specific network resources to one or more mobile devices on the network. Finally Subscriber Management Server may correspond to any server responsible for managing or storing information about the service subscriptions of the mobile device users on the network. Policy Server may be in intermittent or continuous communication with each of Remote Policy Agent Resources Service Gateway and Subscriber Management Server as required in accordance with one or more implementations described in the present application.

Thus the implementation disclosed by may provide a policy server that supports dual i.e. local and network wide feedback loops for controlling network access in a plurality of mobile devices. Accordingly real time packet network and session analysis information may be fed back into each mobile device s network operating behavior. Additionally aggregated location network access volume and analytics based policy updates may be fed back to alter local network connectivity policies of a group of mobile devices.

Action of flowchart includes receiving an update for the one or more local network policies from a policy server based on a second plurality of network parameters received by the policy server from one or more other devices. For example as previously discussed regarding one or more mobile devices may transmit network parameters and or individual local network policy results to a policy server. Utilizing the real time and previously collected feedback from multiple mobile devices on the network the policy server may administrate network wide policy driven control and management of high quality network access for each mobile device on the network. For example once the policy server has received network parameters from several mobile devices on the network the policy server may deduce a state or condition of each network link within the network. The policy server may then make adjustments to local network policies from each of the mobile devices based on a particular goal and the current state of the network as a whole and send an update of those policies to the respective mobile devices.

Action of flowchart includes rerouting data traffic for the mobile device from a first wireless network configuration to a second wireless network configuration based on the analyzing of the first plurality of network parameters and the update from the policy server. Taking into consideration the mobile device s original locally determined network policy and the update to that policy received from the policy server one or more wireless network connections not a part of a currently connected wireless network configuration may be selected for configuration of a second wireless network configuration. Both the first and second wireless network configurations may include one or more of a WiFi a WiMax a 2G a 3G a 4G an LTE and any other known wireless network connection without limitation.

In one implementation the mobile device may perform one or more pre connection tests on the one or more network links that make up the second wireless network configuration. In this manner the mobile device may ensure connection with the contemplated network links of the second wireless network configuration will adequately support the accomplishment of a particular network goal determined by the service provider of the network or determined by the aggregation of local policies of the mobile devices on the network or in a particular mobile device group. The mobile device may also perform one or more post connection tests on the one or more links of the second wireless network configuration to ensure the anticipated conditions from the one or more pre connection tests exist once actual connection to those one or more links have been established.

In another implementation action may include one or more of network address translation NAT source versus destination identification and routing application traffic identification and routing tunnel and MIP sequencing data flow control and configuration of simultaneous bindings and traffic shaping and throttling based on the analyzing of the first plurality of network parameters and the update from the policy server.

In yet another implementation the mobile device may be configured to differentiate between a mobile and a stationary state of the mobile device and if the mobile device is stationary further track wireless networks at the most frequented locations for that particular mobile device. Such tracking may include comparing the network resources identified at the stationary location against previously stored network resources and determining if the current stationary location is a frequently visited stationary location. The tracking may be carried out directly by the mobile device or tracked by a policy server after the presence of such wireless networks in those frequented visited stationary locations have been transmitted to the policy server by the mobile device. Accordingly pre saved home work and or play network links for example may be made available to a user of the mobile device based on the frequency of their availability to the mobile device. As a non limiting example the mobile device may pre save a particular network as a home work and or play network link if it is found available more than 4 times in the past for a particular mobile device. However any other number of availabilities over any time period is also contemplated.

In such an implementation the mobile device may first notify a user of the mobile device of the presence of a wireless network configuration which is a home work and or play network link once it becomes available. The mobile device may then prompt the user to establish the wireless network configuration utilizing the home work and or play network link. Once the user has established a particular network link as a pre saved network link the mobile device may automatically connect to this network link whenever the mobile device comes into range and is determined to be stationary.

In order to be more efficient with utilization of on board memory of the mobile device an implementation may enable the mobile device to sense and report its location and optionally its velocity to the policy server. Based on the location of the mobile device and optionally the velocity of the mobile device a list of available base stations and associated network links within a predetermined radius of the location may be loaded from the policy server to the mobile device. In this manner determination of appropriate network links for a WiFi offload or wireless network reconfiguration may be faster than when a list of all available base stations at all distances are downloaded to the mobile device.

An implementation may further include offering a user of the mobile device additional network services or network subscription upgrades when one or more network parameters associated with the mobile device exceed or alternatively fall below a threshold. For example when a mobile device has exceeded its limit for an associated data plan on a 2G or 3G network link the mobile device may automatically perform a WiFi offload to a local WiFi network link such as a hotel s free WiFi connection. This may be performed seamlessly and without interrupting current communication sessions as described above regarding the virtual adapters of . In the alternative the mobile device may present a notification on its display that an affiliated WiFi provider subscription is available for a fee. The user may select such a network and the mobile device may automatically perform a WiFi offload as described above however to the selected affiliated WiFi provider. Alternatively the mobile device may present a notification on its display of available upgrades in the network provider s already existing subscription package which would allow the mobile device to resume data downloading. Non limiting examples may include an increase in a monthly data subscription over the original network link types or enablement of previously unavailable faster network link types such as 4G LTE or a previously unavailable combination of network link types.

Finally yet another implementation may allow for radio and battery consumption management in network policy making decisions. For example the mobile device may have a local policy that turns off WiFi and or 4G radios to conserve battery life. If the WiFi and or 4G connection has not been manually disabled by a user of the mobile device local policy from the mobile device and or from policy updates pushed to the mobile device may cause one or more disabled radios on the mobile device to be automatically turned on and the network links serviced by the one or more radios to be utilized in a new faster or more efficient wireless network configuration.

Thus the present application provides for controlling network access for a mobile device. A self adjusting mobile platform policy enforcement agent in mobile devices as well as in a central policy server may allow the extension of self adjusting network connectivity policy from a network core to each mobile device on the network to enable the best QoS while optimizing the allocation of network resource access. Accordingly concepts of the present application reduce network congestion in overloaded wireless networks without requiring an increase in absolute network capacity. Additionally concepts of the present application provide an intelligent carrier controlled policy driven connectivity solution which also includes subordinate user based policy control of network connectivity.

From the above description it is manifest that various techniques can be used for implementing the concepts described in the present application without departing from the scope of those concepts. Moreover while the concepts have been described with specific reference to certain implementations a person of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that changes can be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of those concepts. As such the described implementations are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. It should also be understood that the present application is not limited to the particular implementations described above but many rearrangements modifications and substitutions are possible without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

