---

title: Display of shaded objects on computing device
abstract: A computer-implemented method for displaying shadowing effects includes displaying, on a computing device, a visual object that has a first edge and a second edge that is different from the first edge; generating a shadow for the visual object using a first shadowing technique along the first edge; generating, along the second edge, shading for the visual object using a technique that differs from the first shadowing technique; and updating the shadow and the shading substantially simultaneously with movement of the visual object by a user of the computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08830238&OS=08830238&RS=08830238
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08830238
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120105
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 430 165 filed on Jan. 5 2011 and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 430 532 filed on Jan. 6 2011 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated by reference as if set forth fully herein.

This document relates to mechanisms for computer displays including displays of pages in electronic books.

Computing devices provide us ever greater features and types of applications. While early applications were very numbers based and centered around paper cards or punch tapes eventually they added video display monitors and text input via keyboard and output became a central tenet of computer operation. Eventually graphical user interfaces were developed that added color and other visual richness to computer applications and even allowed the development of applications that could visually replicate certain real world systems.

Computer applications also continue to advance in complexity and in the types user interfaces that are generated to improve the experience that a user has in interacting with the applications. For example electronic book reader applications can display text at different sizes that correspond to a reader s particular needs. In addition some applications provide a page turning experience that looks like an actual paper page being bent and turned and then laid flat again.

This document discusses systems and techniques for displaying graphical representations of items such as books and other documents. The techniques described here are directed to providing a visual impression on the screen of a computing device that a user is interacting with an actual book. And in certain implementations the content of the book may have been scanned from a physical book so that adding chrome in the form of rendered covers and bindings for a book makes the experience all the more real.

Thus for example when a user turns a page of a book or magazine or other similar document techniques described below make provide a representation that appears as if the page has been grabbed by the user e.g. at a location over the page on a touchscreen display where the user made contact and started to drag in the direction of pulling the page to turn it . At the same time the system may generate a shadow on the top of the neighboring page around the free end of the moving page to create an effect as if the moving page is casting a shadow. A shading may be applied and moved along the attached edge of the page at the simulated binding where the shading move inward or outward on the page to indicate that the page at that location is starting to tip toward the other side of the book. Simultaneously a shading that was near the binding before the page turning action began may be removed gradually in favor of the page turning shading. Once the page has flipped so that the previously back side of the page is visible the shading and shadow may be reversed so that a shadow is cast on the other side of the moving page and shading is applied at the other side also. When the page is fully turned and is dropped into position on the other side of the representation of the book the shadow may be removed fully and the at rest shading near the binding may be return though on the other side of the page at which it started and similar shading at the binding may be provided on the newly exposed page . Such actions may occur in an opposite direction for turning backward in a book as opposed to forward in it and the operations may be repeated for each page turn.

Additional features are discussed below to address situation in which a user is zoomed in on an imaged page e.g. a page whose content portion was captured by scanning a real book and the user express an intent to turn to the next or previous page. In such a situation the system may zoom out momentarily so that the user is shown all or substantially all of the open book or of the current page may turn the page if turning of the rendered page is needed e.g. if the user is on the right hand page of an opened book and seeks to move forward in the book and then may automatically zoom in on the new page at the same zoom level it was at before the page turn operation. Such operations may maintain a zoom level at which the reader was comfortable but may move the reader forward or backward in the book with a view of the context in which the change was made. As such the techniques may provide an intuitive and visually pleasing user experience in moving about in a representation of an imaged book.

The techniques of the prior paragraphs may also be combined. For example if a user is zoomed in on a page and shows an intent to turn to another page the display may zoom out to show the laid open book the page may be turned with the shading and shadowing techniques above and the view may be zoomed back in to the original zoom level automatically in the manners discussed above. Also if a user begins motions to turn a page but does not complete them e.g. begins swiping laterally on a touchscreen but does not go far enough to complete a page turn and instead swipes back toward the original positions the system may go back to where it started i.e. it may allow the page to fall back to its original position with shading and shadows following it and the zoom level and position may return to the level and position from before the user began indicating an intent to turn the page.

The techniques discussed here may in certain implementations provide one or more advantages. For example a user of a portable electronic device may be shown scanned imaged pages with chrome around the pages so that they appear to be in the context of a real book. That context may be maintained and enhanced when the user turns a page by providing a realistic rendering of the turning page with shading and shadows. Moreover because the page is an imaged page rather than a page that is constructed from bare text zooming on the page maintains the original layout and context of the page but prevents a user from seeing other portions of the page so that the zooming techniques described here may help the user maintain their zoom level while also maintaining their context within a book.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

A horizontal lines is also shown at the bottom of the screen along which the dot slides and gaps are shown in the line to indicate where in the document there are chapter breaks and the like. As a result if a use wants to jump forward two chapters quickly she may press on the dot and drag it to the right across two gaps that are shown in the line.

Although the document is shown as lying flat there is a small divider between the left page and the right page in . the divider may simply be a thick vertical line of a particular color or may be shaded darker toward the middle of the book to provide a visual impression of the paper pinching downward away from the viewer and into a binding.

In the image of a page is shown being turned with shading provided along the bound end of the page and on the next page which is visually below the page being turned so as to provide the visual effect of an actual book page being turned and casting a shadow on the lower page and immediately adjacent the loose edge of the turning page . Specifically shading and shadowing occurs near two edges of the page 1 shadowing off the right end of the page to show depth between the end of the page and the next page shown below it and 2 shading along a curve on the left side of the page to show that the paper is being bent as the page is turned. However at times here shading may be used to encompass both operations. Shading and shadowing may also occur between two adjacent pages as a vertical shadow that represents where the two adjacent pages meet in the book binding of an actual book. The opacity of such shading or shadowing may be affected when a page is being turned.

The shading may be reversed if a page is being turned in the opposite direction or after the page reaches the halfway point in a turn. In particular when the loose edge of the page is to the left of the center of the book a shadow may be cast onto the page that is shown in as being shadow and shade free except perhaps very close to the binding and shading may be applied to the opposite side of the page that is being turned though still at the attached edge of the page. Although the page turning here is straight in that the loose edge of the page is vertical the page turning may also be at an angle so that the edge is at a diagonal. In such a situation the shadow may still be thrown on the page below but it may be at an angle.

In this example the types of shading for each side of the page are different. The right edge uses texturing such as by a statically defined texture at a position indicated by a current position of the page as it is being turned where each form of shading is updated as the page is moved back and forth by a user .

The left edge uses standard lighting techniques such as Phong or Blinn shading and by computing light from a synthetic light source falling on particular pixels of the page including by using dot products between angles of incident light and angles from which the user is perceived to be viewing the page.

The impression of the page being turned is further emphasized by rendering the page using perspective projection. In particular portions of the page that are determined in the rendering process to be further from the viewer are also rendered as smaller or closer together. As a result the free end of the turning page is smaller than its middle portion and the text on the page is also pinched more together at the free end than in the middle. Again the free end is vertically oriented though it could also be angled slightly as the page is turned and the shading and shadows may be provided along with such motion.

Referring now more specifically to the elements of consider a system having six slots and a user who is looking at page 6 of a book in landscape so that a pair of pages is open to the user and is turning the page forward. Each of the pages is indicated by a relative number with page 6 being 0 page 7 being 1 page 5 being 1 and page 4 being 2 and facing downward and away from the viewer in . By default the turned page would be at slot 0 and would be displayed on the right side of the book in landscape. Page 5 would be in slot 1 and would appear on the left. Page 7 which is under page 6 on the opposite side of the page and not visible would be in slot 1 because it had already been rendered. Page 8 is also not visible because page 6 is blocking it and would be in slot 2 because it has already been rendered. Slots 3 and 4 would be marked as empty and contain no data. The index for tracking the main page would be set at 0 but would be incremented by two once a page change was completed. A module for caching pages would also then request the pre rendering of pages 9 and 10 of the book.

Referring to various conceptual diagrams illustrate zooming while page turning in a document. In FIG. A a a conceptual representation of an imaged document is shown. A portable computing device is shown over the imaged document . The position of the computing device represents the portion of the imaged document on which the computing device is zoomed in. For example in FIG. A a the computing device is displaying the imaged document and has zoomed in on the bottom half of the left page. A user is show left swiping on the display of the computing device as indicated by a left pointing arrow.

In FIG. A b the computing device is shown displaying a zoomed out version of the imaged document . In this mode of display both pages of the imaged document are shown. For example if the imaged document is taken from a hardcover book or softcover as shown in the zoomed out version of the imaged document shows both pages of a book lying open on a table while a zoomed in version provides only a partial display of one or both pages as illustrated by FIG. A a . FIG. A b also displays additional features representative of a physical document as if it were lying on a table. For example in the example where the imaged document is a hardcover book FIG. A b shows a representation of pages of the book along the edges of the book thereby presenting a physical representation of a reading a book. These additional features may be referred to as the chrome . This physical display therefore provides a more real feel to reading a book or other document on a computing device .

FIG. A c shows another conceptual representation of the imaged document on the computing device . In this representation the computing device is zoomed in on the top of the right page of the zoomed out version of the imaged document .

In some embodiments a left swipe by a user on the display of the computing device as shown in FIG. A a causes the computing device to go to the next page or to effectively turn the page of the document. For example if the computing device is zoomed in on the bottom of the left page of the imaged document as in FIG. A a a left swipe may cause the computing device to display the portion of the imaged document shown on the computing device in FIG. A c that is the portion of the document on the next page at the top of the page. In such an embodiment the left swipe causes the computing device to go from a zoomed in display of a representation of the bottom of a first page to a zoomed in display of the top of a representation of the top of the next page in an imaged document . In some embodiments the left swipe further causes an animation to occur while transitioning the display of the imaged document . For instance where the imaged document is zoomed in the left swipe by a user may first cause the computing device to zoom out from the display shown in FIG. A a and then zoom back in to the display shown in FIG. A c .

In other embodiments a left swipe by a user on the display of a computing device does not result in a zoomed in display of an imaged document . For example a left swipe as shown in FIG. A a may cause the computing device to effectively turn the page of the imaged document . That is if the computing device were previously displaying pages 8 and 9 of an imaged document as in FIG. A b for example and had zoomed in on page 8 as in FIG. A a for example a left swipe may cause the computing device to turn the page to display pages 10 and 11. As a result of a left swipe by a user the computing device may display both pages 10 and 11 as in FIG. A b for example or a zoomed in display of page 10 as in FIG. A a for example . In some embodiments a zoomed in display of the next page may be zoomed in on the top of the next page.

In an example where a page turn is animated as would be the case in going from a display of pages 8 and 9 to pages 10 and 11 of a physical book a computing device displaying a zoomed in portion of an imaged document as in FIG. A a may first provide an animation of the imaged document zooming out. Then the computing device may provide an animation of the imaged document turning a page showing an animation of a physical page being turned. In this embodiment the chrome would animate to display a page of a book appearing to turn. After displaying an animation of the physical page being turned the computing device may then display the next page or pages e.g. both pages 10 and 11 of the imaged document . In some embodiments the computing device further shows an animation zooming into the next page of the imaged document .

Referring to another conceptual diagram of zooming while page turning in a document is shown. In this example the imaged document is displayed as continuous pages as represented in FIGS. B a and c . In FIG. B a the portable computing device is shown as zoomed in on the bottom right corner of page 1 of the imaged document . FIG. B b illustrates the computing device displaying a zoomed out version of the imaged document in a hardcover book mode of display where the chrome is shown around the edges of the imaged document .

Referring now more specifically to components of the system shown in the device is arranged to communicate through a wireless network and then the network such as the Internet with various hosted services. In this example the hosted service that is being used is an image service provided by book image server . Interaction between computing devices and an image server system is well known and may include the receipt of image files by the device where the file may include a header that identifies meta data and a body of the file defines data for generating the image on a display. In some examples the images may be of scanned digital images of pages of actual physical books and may be accessed for display on the device .

The device has been loaded with a media player application for playing media files such as books on the device and also for displaying pages of the books on a display of the device. Other applications on the device may require rendering services for other purposes and the media player application is discussed here for purposes of illustration only. The display on the device shows a book opened flat similar to the displays in .

Particular components shown in schematic form as executing on the device may affect the manner in which the application is displayed on the device . For example a display controller may control the manner in which different applications access the display of device and the manner in which their content is displayed on that display. For example the display controller may identify which application is currently the focus of the device and may display content from that application in preference to content from other applications. The display controller may also identify which user interface elements such as elements generated by particular activities of an application are to be displayed at a current time on the display of device .

An input controller may interact with the display controller and may identify various inputs received on the device . Such input for example may include touch based inputs on a touch sensitive portion of the display on device . The location of a particular touch input as sent by the input controller may be coordinated with locations of items in the user interface displayed by the display controller so that a user intention for a touch input may be discerned. For example a user dragging on the pages of a book make cause those pages to be smoothly turned in an animated sequence in coordination with a user input.

An book interaction module is also provided on the device and may interact with the display controller and a GPU to render pages as they are turned both with shading and shadows and for zooming into close views of the book thus implementing techniques like those described above with

A wireless interface may be used to receive image data and send such data back and forth to the image server through the network . The media player application may be programmed according to an application programming interface to access information that is passing through the wireless interface . For example the media player application may register with an operating system that is executing on the device to be notified when images are received from the image server and to be provided with data from such messages so that they can be displayed on the device in a quickly updated manner e.g. if the user is accessing a book from the cloud . An images database may also be the source of images to be displayed on the device . The database may store images persistently or may cache images obtained from image server .

The process begins at where a rendering of a book is displayed with flat pages. Flat pages means that none of the pages is being turned but there may still be shading on the pages to simulate the look of an open book that bulges upward somewhat on each side of the binding in the middle of the open book.

At the process receives user input to turn a page. Such input may involve pressing a user selectable control or swiping across a touchscreen display in a direction of turning. The remaining steps may begin occurring while such input is being received and before a user s input indicates an intent to complete a page turn. Also the remaining steps may occur in coordination with zooming out and back in when the user was zoomed in on a portion of an imaged page before starting the input see e.g. .

At the process generates a shadow at the free edge of the page onto the representation of the underlying page and at the process simultaneously generates shading at a connected edge of the page. The process may also update any shading that was originally shown where the page entered the binding. Such updating may be gradual in that the original shading may be removed in amounts that are a function of the degree to which the page turning is complete i.e. the angle of the page through its path of turning . Also such shading can be updated as a user moves the page backward and forward and .

Finally at a point the process determines that the user wants to complete the change to a new page or abort the action and return to the original page. In such a situation the turning page may be animated to its final position with updating of the shading and shadows as it moves. When the page is settled various meta data may be updated around the page such as a numeric indicator that shows what page of the book the user is on.

Referring to a flow chart of an exemplary method for zooming while turning a page on a computing device is shown. At in the method a computing device launches a reader application and displays an imaged document. In some embodiments the displayed imaged document may be a scanned representation of a book or magazine. In such an embodiment the displayed document appears as the physical book or magazine represented would appear in person. Features such as page numbers and in some instances creases on the edges of pages or writing on the margins of a page may appear in the imaged document. Other such features that may appear as the result of physical scanning are possible.

If a user viewing the imaged document of FIG. B a down swipes the computing device responds by displaying the next page. In some embodiments the down swipe causes the computing device to advance and show a zoomed in version of the top of the next page as in FIG. B c . The computing device may in some instances show an animation of the imaged document advancing from page 1 in FIG. B a to page 2 in FIG. B c . For instance the computing device may first zoom out to display all of page 1 and in some instances at least part of previous or next pages and then zoom in to display the top right corner of page 2. In some embodiments the computing device zooms out of the display of page 1 but does not zoom in on page 2 instead displaying a zoomed out version of all of page 2. In other embodiments the computing device does not zoom out of the display of page 1 as in FIG. B a and animates to scroll down to the top of page 2 as in FIG. B c .

The reader application may further display features of a physical book or magazine that a user would recognize if he were reading the physical book or document in person. Such displayed features may include the pages that are under the displayed pages when a book or magazine lies flat on a table. These features known on the device as the chrome may be displayed along the edges of the imaged document as the edges of a plurality of layered pages. In some embodiments the chrome may be capable of animating to represent the turning of a page.

At the computing device tracks the zoom level and location on document pages. A user reading a document in the reader application may select to zoom in or out of the imaged document. While the user zooms in and out of the document the reader application keeps track of the level at which the user zooms. The reader application further keeps track of which page or pages are being displayed on the computing device at any given time. The reader may further keep track of the location on the document where a user is zoomed in such as the top right corner or bottom left corner.

At the computing device receives the beginning of a user input determined to indicate an intent to turn a page. In some embodiments the user input that indicates an intent to turn a page starts with the user touching the display of the computing device and starting to drag his finger on the display. If the user intends to turn to the next page the user input may be a left swipe which consists of the user touching the display screen and dragging his finger from right to left. If the user intends to turn to the previous screen the user input may be a right screen which consists of the user touching the display screen and dragging his finger from left to right. In some embodiments where the document is scrolled up and down and the user reads it an up swipe touching the display screen and dragging from bottom to top or down swipe touching the display screen and dragging from bottom to top may be used to advance the page or go back in the document.

In response to receiving the beginning of the user input determined to indicate an intent to turn the page at the device then temporarily zooms out of the page currently being displayed at . At the device determines whether the user input to turn the page was completed. In some embodiments the device makes a determination based on the whether the input received at was fully completed. For example a user may touch the screen and begin to slowly drag his finger on the screen to the left. If the user does not however continue this dragging motion to the left and quickly release the device may determine that the user did not intent to perform a left swipe and turn the page or after starting to turn the page changed his mind. The device may use various parameters to determine whether the user completed the page turn input. For example the duration of the input or swipe may be analyzed. In other instances the length of the swipe must be a threshold length in order to complete the page turning motion. In other instances the device determines that the user flicked the screen to determine that the user input to turn the page was complete. In some embodiments if the device determines that the user input to turn the page was complete the device may show an animation of a page being turned. In such an embodiment the chrome around the edges of the imaged document may animate showing a page lifting up turning and then lying flat.

At the device displays the next or previous page at the zoom level from the prior page. The determination of whether the next page is shown or the previous page is shown depends on the user input. For instance a left swipe or an up swipe may result in the next page being shown while a right swipe or a down swipe may result in the previous page being shown. In some embodiments the device further uses the previously tracked zoom level of the previous page to determine the zoom level at which to display the next page. In some embodiments the next page is not zoomed in regardless of the zoom level of the previous page.

The device may also use the previously tracked location of the previous page to determine where on the next page to zoom in. For example if the previous page was zoomed in on the bottom of the page the next page may be shown as zoomed in at the top of the page as the device determines that the user has completed reading the previous page and most likely would prefer to start at the top of the following page. In another embodiment the device uses the same page location on the previous page to display the corresponding location on the next page.

At is shown a result if the user does not complete the motion for a page turn such as if the user chose to abort a page turn after starting it. For example a user can begin swiping to turn the page but before they swipe for a distance that the system will use to determine that the swipe is complete they may backtrack toward the side of the display where they started and then lift their finger. In response to such a motion the page will be animated to drop back to its initial position from before the user started to turn the page.

Referring now to a conceptual diagram of a system that may be used to implement the systems and methods described in this document is illustrated. In the system a computing device can wirelessly communicate with base station which can provide the mobile computing device with wireless access to numerous hosted services through a network .

In this illustration the mobile computing device is depicted as a tablet device that includes a touchscreen display for presenting content to a user of the mobile computing device and receiving touch based user inputs. Other visual auditory and tactile output components may also be provided e.g. LED lights a speaker for providing tonal voice generated or recorded output or vibrating mechanisms for tactile output as may various different input components e.g. keyboard physical buttons trackballs accelerometers gyroscopes and magnetometers .

Example visual output mechanism in the form of display device may take the form of an LED or AMOLED display with resistive or capacitive touch capabilities for displaying video graphics images and text and coordinating user touch inputs locationally with the displayed information so that user contact above a displayed item may be associated with the item by the device . The mobile computing device may take alternative forms also including as a laptop computer a mobile telephone a slate computer a personal digital assistant an embedded system e.g. a car navigation system a desktop personal computer or a computerized workstation.

An example mechanism for receiving user input includes a virtual keyboard displayed on the touchscreen display or a physical keyboard not shown which may be a full qwerty keyboard or a traditional keypad that includes keys for the digits 0 9 and . The keyboard receives input when a user physically contacts or depresses a keyboard key. User manipulation of a trackball or interaction with a trackpad enables the user to supply directional and rate of rotation information to the device e.g. to manipulate a position of a cursor on the display device .

The device may be able to determine a position of physical contact with the touchscreen display device e.g. a position of contact by a finger or a stylus . Using the touchscreen various virtual input mechanisms may be produced where a user interacts with a graphical user interface element depicted on the touchscreen by contacting the graphical user interface element. An example of a virtual input mechanism is a software keyboard where a keyboard is displayed on the touchscreen and a user selects keys by pressing a region of the touchscreen that corresponds to each key.

The mobile computing device may include mechanical or touch sensitive physical buttons not shown . Additionally the mobile computing device may include buttons for adjusting volume output by the one or more speakers not shown and a button for turning the mobile computing device on or off. A microphone allows the device to convert audible sounds into an electrical signal that may be digitally encoded and stored in computer readable memory or transmitted to another computing device. The device may also include a digital compass an accelerometer proximity sensors and ambient light sensors.

An operating system may provide an interface between the mobile computing device s hardware e.g. the input output mechanisms and a processor executing instructions retrieved from computer readable medium and software. Example operating systems include the ANDROID mobile device platform APPLE IPHONE MAC OS X operating systems MICROSOFT WINDOWS 7 WINDOWS MOBILE operating systems SYMBIAN operating system RIM BLACKBERRY operating system PALM WEB operating system a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computerized devices. The operating system may provide a platform for the execution of application programs that facilitate interaction between the computing device and a user.

The mobile computing device may present a graphical user interface with the touchscreen . A graphical user interface is a collection of one or more graphical interface elements and may be static e.g. the display appears to remain the same over a period of time or may be dynamic e.g. the graphical user interface includes graphical interface elements that animate without user input .

A graphical interface element may be text lines shapes images or combinations thereof. For example a graphical interface element may be an icon that is displayed on the desktop and the icon s associated text. In some examples a graphical interface element is selectable with user input. For example a user may select a graphical interface element by pressing a region of the touchscreen that corresponds to a display of the graphical interface element. In some examples the user may manipulate a trackball to highlight a single graphical interface element as having focus. User selection of a graphical interface element may invoke a pre defined action by the mobile computing device. In some examples selectable graphical interface elements further or alternatively correspond to a button on the keyboard. User selection of the button may invoke the pre defined action.

In some examples the operating system provides a desktop user interface that is displayed upon turning on the computing device activating the device from a sleep mode upon unlocking the mobile computing device or upon receiving user selection of a physical button on the computing device . The desktop graphical interface may display several icons that when selected with user input invoke corresponding application programs. An invoked application program may present a graphical interface that replaces the desktop graphical interface until the application program terminates or is hidden from view.

User input may manipulate a sequence of mobile computing device operations. For example a single action user input e.g. a single tap of the touchscreen swipe across the touchscreen contact with a button or combination of these at a same time may invoke an operation that changes a display of the user interface. Without the user input the user interface may not have changed at a particular time. For example a multi touch user input with the touchscreen may invoke a mapping application to zoom in on a location even though the mapping application may have by default zoomed in after several seconds.

The desktop graphical interface can also display widgets. A widget is one or more graphical interface elements that are associated with an application program that has been executed and that display on the desktop content controlled by the executing application program. A widget s application program may start with the mobile telephone. Further a widget may not take focus of the full display. Instead a widget may only own a small portion of the desktop displaying content and receiving touchscreen user input within the portion of the desktop.

The computing device may include one or more location identification mechanisms. A location identification mechanism may include a collection of hardware and software that provides the operating system and application programs an estimate of the mobile telephone s geographical position. A location identification mechanism may employ satellite based positioning techniques base station transmitting antenna identification multiple base station triangulation internet access point IP location determinations inferential identification of a user s position based on search engine queries and user supplied identification of location e.g. by checking in to a location .

The computing device may include other application modules and hardware. Where the computing device is a mobile telephone a call handling unit may receive an indication of an incoming telephone call and provide a user capabilities to answer the incoming telephone call. A media player may allow a user to listen to music or play movies that are stored in local memory of the computing device . The device may include a digital camera sensor and corresponding image and video capture and editing software. An internet browser may enable the user to view content from a web page by typing in an addresses corresponding to the web page or selecting a link to the web page.

The computing device may include an antenna to wirelessly communicate information with the base station . The base station may be one of many base stations in a collection of base stations e.g. a mobile telephone cellular network that enables the computing device to maintain communication with a network as the computing device is geographically moved. The computing device may alternatively or additionally communicate with the network through a Wi Fi router or a wired connection e.g. Ethernet USB or FIREWIRE . The computing device may also wirelessly communicate with other computing devices using BLUETOOTH protocols or may employ an ad hoc wireless network.

A service provider that operates the network of base stations may connect the mobile computing device to the network to enable communication between the mobile computing device and other computerized devices that provide services . Although the services may be provided over different networks e.g. the service provider s internal network the Public Switched Telephone Network and the Internet network is illustrated as a single network. The service provider may operate a server system that routes information packets and voice data between the computing device and computing devices associated with the services .

The network may connect the computing device to the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN in order to establish voice or fax communication between the mobile computing device and another computing device. For example the service provider server system may receive an indication from the PSTN of an incoming call for the computing device . Conversely the computing device may send a communication to the service provider server system initiating a telephone call with a telephone number that is associated with a device accessible through the PSTN .

The network may connect the computing device with a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP service that routes voice communications over an IP network as opposed to the PSTN. For example a user of the computing device may invoke a VoIP application and initiate a call using the program. The service provider server system may forward voice data from the call to a VoIP service which may route the call over the internet to a corresponding computing device potentially using the PSTN for a final leg of the connection.

An application store may provide a user of the computing device the ability to browse a list of remotely stored application programs that the user may download over the network and install on the computing device . The application store may serve as a repository of applications developed by third party application developers. An application program that is installed on the computing device may be able to communicate over the network with server systems that are designated for the application program. For example a VoIP application program may be downloaded from the Application Store enabling the user to communicate with the VoIP service .

The computing device may access content on the internet through network . For example a user of the computing device may invoke a web browser application that requests data from remote computing devices that are accessible at designated universal resource locations. In various examples some of the services are accessible over the internet.

The computing device may communicate with a personal computer . For example the personal computer may be the home computer for a user of the computing device . Thus the user may be able to stream media from his personal computer . The user may also view the file structure of his personal computer and transmit selected documents between the computerized devices.

A voice recognition service may receive voice communication data recorded with the computing device s microphone not shown and translate the voice communication into corresponding textual data. In some examples the translated text is provided to a search engine as a web query and responsive search engine search results are transmitted to the computing device .

The computing device may communicate with a social network . The social network may include numerous members some of which have agreed to be related as acquaintances. Application programs on the computing device may access the social network to retrieve information based on the acquaintances of the user of the mobile computing device. For example an address book application program may retrieve telephone numbers for the user s acquaintances. In various examples content may be delivered to the computing device based on social network distances from the user to other members. For example advertisement and news article content may be selected for the user based on a level of interaction with such content by members that are close to the user e.g. members that are friends or friends of friends .

The computing device may access a personal set of contacts through network . Each contact may identify an individual and include information about that individual e.g. a phone number an email address and a birthday . Because the set of contacts is hosted remotely to the computing device the user may access and maintain the contacts across several devices as a common set of contacts.

The computing device may access cloud based application programs . Cloud computing provides application programs e.g. a word processor or an email program that are hosted remotely from the computing device and may be accessed by the device using a web browser or a dedicated program. Example cloud based application programs include GOOGLE DOCS word processor and spreadsheet service GOOGLE GMAIL webmail service and PICASA picture manager.

Mapping service can provide the computing device with street maps route planning information and satellite images. An example mapping service is GOOGLE MAPS. The mapping service may also receive queries and return location specific results. For example the computing device may send an estimated location of the mobile computing device and a user entered query for pizza places to the mapping service . The mapping service may return a street map with markers superimposed on the map that identify geographical locations of nearby pizza places. 

Turn by turn service may provide the computing device with turn by turn directions to a user supplied destination. For example the turn by turn service may stream to device a street level view of an estimated location of the device along with data for providing audio commands and superimposing arrows that direct a user of the device to the destination.

Various forms of streaming media may be requested by the computing device . For example computing device may request a stream for a pre recorded video file a live television program or a live radio program. Example services that provide streaming media include YOUTUBE and PANDORA.

A micro blogging service may receive from the computing device a user input post that does not identify recipients of the post. The micro blogging service may disseminate the post to other members of the micro blogging service that agreed to subscribe to the user.

A search engine may receive user entered textual or verbal queries from the computing device determine a set of internet accessible documents that are responsive to the query and provide to the device information to display a list of search results for the responsive documents. In examples where a verbal query is received the voice recognition service may translate the received audio into a textual query that is sent to the search engine.

These and other services may be implemented in a server system . A server system may be a combination of hardware and software that provides a service or a set of services. For example a set of physically separate and networked computerized devices may operate together as a logical server system unit to handle the operations necessary to offer a service to hundreds of individual computing devices.

In various implementations operations that are performed in response to another operation e.g. a determination or an identification are not performed if the prior operation is unsuccessful e.g. if the determination was not performed . Features in this document that are described with conditional language may describe implementations that are optional. In some examples transmitting from a first device to a second device includes the first device placing data into a network for receipt by the second device but may not include the second device receiving the data. Conversely receiving from a first device may include receiving the data from a network but may not include the first device transmitting the data.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. The device may be provided with a subscriber identity module SIM card that stores a key for identifying a subscriber with a telecommunications carrier to enable communication through the carrier. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant tablet device or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

