---

title: Radial flow pulse jet mixer
abstract: The disclosure provides a pulse jet mixing vessel for mixing a plurality of solid particles. The pulse jet mixing vessel is comprised of a sludge basin, a flow surface surrounding the sludge basin, and a downcoming flow annulus between the flow surface and an inner shroud. The pulse jet mixing vessel is additionally comprised of an upper vessel pressurization volume in fluid communication with the downcoming flow annulus, and an inner shroud surge volume separated from the downcoming flow annulus by the inner shroud. When the solid particles are resting on the sludge basin and a fluid such as water is atop the particles and extending into the downcoming flow annulus and the inner shroud surge volume, mixing occurs by pressurization of the upper vessel pressurization volume, generating an inward radial flow over the flow surface and an upwash jet at the center of the sludge basin.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08469583&OS=08469583&RS=08469583
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08469583
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120213
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

The disclosure relates to a pulse jet mixing vessel for mixing a plurality of solid particles. The pulse jet mixing vessel is comprised of a sludge basin a flow surface surrounding the sludge basin a downcoming flow annulus between the flow surface and an inner shroud. The pulse jet mixing vessel is additionally comprised of an upper vessel pressurization volume in fluid communication with the downcoming flow annulus and an inner shroud surge volume separated from the downcoming flow annulus by the inner shroud. When the solid particles are resting on the sludge basin and a fluid such as water is atop the particles and extending into the downcoming flow annulus and the inner shroud surge volume mixing may occur by pressurization of the upper vessel pressurization volume generating an inward radial flow over the flow surface and an upwash jet at the center of the sludge basin.

Mixing processes are widely employed in unit operations intended to make heterogeneous physical systems more homogenous. A typical approach is the use of axial or radial impellors in agitated tanks for the mixing of fluids or slurries. These tanks utilize shear imparted to the fluid or slurry by the impellor to generate circulating flows within the tank. Typically the fluids or slurries mixed are non hazardous materials and draining and opening the tank to correct various issues arising with any moving parts inside the vessel is an acceptable method of repair.

When the mixing tanks are intended for the storage of relatively hazardous materials such as radioactive waste awaiting remediation draining and opening the tank becomes a significantly more complicated undertaking. However mixing of the waste during storage remains a significant operational requirement because typically the radioactive waste is made up of solid particles and liquids and particles with high concentrations of fissile materials such as uranium or plutonium are dense rapidly settling particles. In the absence of adequate mixing during storage the rapidly settling particles can settle preferentially and accumulate creating a potential for inadvertent criticality in the sediment. Additionally the sediment layers can retain significant quantities of flammable gas generated from radiolysis which without adequate mixing may be released suddenly through a spontaneous buoyant displacement gas release event and potentially exceed the lower flammability limit in the mixing vessel headspace.

Due to the requirement for periodic mixing combined with the logistical difficulties of opening a radioactive waste tank for repair it is generally desired that radioactive storage tanks provide a mixing capability with an absence of any moving parts within the tank itself. To meet these requirements fluidic pulse jet mixers PJM are commonly employed. PJM s employ pulse jets formed by alternating pressure and suction on fluid in pulse tubes coupled to jet nozzles creating a pulsating flow. The nozzle end of the tube is immersed in the tank while periodic pressure vacuum and venting are supplied to the opposite end. A suction phase draws process liquid into the PJM from the vessel and a drive phase subsequently pressurizes the PJM with compressed air. This pressurization discharges the PJM liquid at high velocity into the vessel causing mixing to occur. The drive phase is followed by a vent phase which allows for depressurization of the PJM. These three phases suction drive and vent make up the mixing cycle. Such a system is intended to provide a motive mixing force within the tank without reliance on moving parts within the tank environment.

Pulse jet mixers as described are commonly used however certain undesired characteristics remain. Generally speaking during the drive phase flow from the jet moves radially away from the jet into the waste sediment the flow velocity decreases and the drag force per particle decreases with the increasing radius. This entrains new particles however the slowing particles subject to the decreasing flow velocity are not removed from the flow and the particles bunch together so that multiple particles form large masses of particles. These large masses effectively act as a very large particle. The time constant for the large masses is long and clumping and cratering within the waste sediment results. In the limiting case acceleration of mass goes to zero and PJM energy is totally dissipated by the formation of stable crater walls. These dead zones are an undesired situation with regard to radioactive wastes for the reasons discussed above. PJMs typically expend significant energy ensuring that limiting cases are avoided.

Particle clumping is a natural consequence of decelerating multiphase flows where fluid motion is relatively fast particles are pushed and the resulting particle motion is relatively slow. It would be advantageous to provide a pulse jet mixing vessel where mixing of solids could occur within the vessel without attendant moving parts and where the mixing could occur through an accelerating radial inward flow over a bed of particles. Such a flow would tend to pull particles into a central upwash jet and into the body of the fluid greatly mitigating or eliminating the formation of sediment craters and any associated dead zones. It would be particularly advantageous if the pulse jet mixing vessel produced the inward radial flow in a manner which eliminates dissipative and unnecessary secondary flows so that acceleration of inward radial flow over the leading edge and the bulk of the sediment would reduce fluid solid shear transport mechanisms greatly reduce the production of turbulent dissipation enhance wake formation at the trailing edge and enhance the transport mechanism of the central upwash fountain.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The disclosure provides a pulse jet mixing vessel designed to promote the mixing of solid particles contained in a sludge basin. In operation a liquid such as water is additionally held by the sludge basin with a water level above and permeating through the particle bed. The pulse jet mixing vessel achieves particle mixing by periodically generating an inward radial flow from around the outer periphery of the sludge basin and radially inwards toward the center of the sludge basin.

During the inward radial flow radial stream lines converge inwardly across the sludge basin outer periphery accelerating as the center is approached and forming an upwash jet. As the flow moves across the trailing edge of the sludge pile and into the upwash jet turbulent diffusion is greatly enhanced and particles in the particle bed generally around the mixing vessel axis are pulled from the bed into the upwash jet. Concurrently shear forces between the inward radial flow and the particles bed shift remaining particles toward the mixing vessel axis. When the inward radial flow ceases the particles settle by gravity back onto the sludge basin.

The pulse jet mixing vessel is comprised of a sludge basin having a sludge basin surface intersected by a longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. In operation longitudinal mixing vessel axis L is substantially parallel to a gravity vector and the particles are held against the sludge basin surface by gravity. The pulse jet mixing vessel is further comprised of a flow surface in contact with the sludge basin surface around a sludge basin outer periphery and in contact with an upper vessel surface around an upper vessel periphery. The sludge basin outer periphery and the upper vessel periphery are closed curves residing in a plane perpendicular to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. Preferably the closed curves are elliptical or circular. The pulse jet mixing vessel is further comprised of a flow shroud having a concavity toward the sludge basin.

The pulse jet mixing vessel is further comprised of a downcoming flow annulus bounded in part by the flow surface and an outer surface of the flow shroud. The downcoming flow annulus is in fluid communication with an upper vessel pressurization volume bounded in part by the upper vessel surface. An inner shroud surge volume is bounded in part by the inner surface of the flow shroud. The flow shroud is spatially arranged to such that a straight line between any point in the upper vessel pressurization volume and any point in the inner shroud surge volume passes through the flow shroud.

An upper vessel gas conduit is in fluid communication with the upper vessel pressurization volume and an inner shroud gas conduit is in fluid communication with the inner shroud surge volume. In operation the pulse jet mixing vessel contains a liquid such as water body covering and permeating a particle bed on the sludge basin and extending into the downcoming flow annulus and the inner shroud surge volume. During a mixing cycle the upper vessel pressurization volume is pressurized by some means such as the upper vessel gas conduit expelling water from the downcoming flow annulus and driving water into the inner shroud surge volume. The water expelled from the downcoming flow annulus generates an inward radial flow over the particle bed and turns into an upwash jet generally along longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. Following pressurization particles lifted into the liquid volume of the water body settle by gravity back to the sludge basin surface.

Embodiments of the pulse jet mixing vessel and the necessary spatial relationships between components are further demonstrated and described in the following description.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein to provide a pulse jet mixing vessel having a sludge basin where the pulse jet mixing vessel generates an inward radial flow and a central upwash jet over the sludge basin providing for the mixing of a plurality of solid particles with an absence of moving parts within the vessel. The pulse jet mixing vessel disclosed has particular applicability to the mixing of heavy particulates in a fluid such as nuclear waste material existing as solid particulate matter and contained in large water filled vessels.

The pulse jet mixing vessel disclosed is designed to promote the mixing of solid particles contained in a sludge basin. The sludge basin preferably has an elliptical more preferably circular outer periphery centered around a mixing vessel axis and in the absence of a mixing flow the solid particles form a bed resting in the sludge basin. In operation a liquid such as water is additionally held by the sludge basin with a water level above and permeating through the particle bed. In operation the pulse jet mixing vessel achieves particle mixing by periodically generating an inward radial flow from around the outer periphery of the sludge basin and radially inwards toward the center of the sludge basin.

During the inward radial flow radial stream lines converge inwardly across the sludge basin outer periphery. The radial stream lines flow over the top of the particle bed and toward the center of the sludge basin accelerating as the center is approached. The inward radial streamlines subsequently converge at the center of the sludge basin and turn into an upwash jet flowing generally upward along the mixing vessel axis. As the flow turns turbulent diffusion is greatly enhanced at the trailing edge of the sludge pile and particles in the particle bed generally around the mixing vessel axis are pulled from the bed into the upwash jet. Concurrently shear forces between the inward radial flow and the particles bed shift remaining particles toward the mixing vessel axis. In this manner particles in the particle bed are pulled into the upwash jet and carried into the water covering the particle bed and evolved gases in the particle bed are liberated. When the inward radial flow ceases the particles settle by gravity back onto the sludge basin and the evolved gases may separate due to buoyancy. This mixing cycle greatly mitigates any particle agglomeration or the buildup of any gases evolved in the particle bed.

A basic embodiment of the pulse jet mixing vessel indicated generally at is illustrated at . Pulse jet mixing vessel has a longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and represents a cross section of pulse jet mixing vessel based on a cutting plane co planer with longitudinal mixing vessel axis L.

Pulse jet mixing vessel is comprised of sludge basin having sludge basin surface and in operation contains particle bed comprised of a plurality of solid particles such as particle . In the embodiment shown longitudinal mixing vessel axis L is substantially parallel to a gravity vector and the particle bed is held against sludge basin surface by gravity. Pulse jet mixing vessel is further comprised of a flow surface upper vessel surface and flow shroud . Flow surface is in contact with sludge basin surface around a sludge basin outer periphery and in contact with upper vessel surface around an upper vessel periphery where the sludge basin outer periphery and the upper vessel periphery are closed curves residing in a plane perpendicular to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. Flow shroud is comprised of inner shroud surface and outer shroud surface as illustrated.

Pulse jet mixing vessel is further comprised of downcoming flow annulus upper vessel pressurization volume and inner shroud surge volume . Downcoming flow annulus is bounded in part by flow surface and outer shroud surface . Upper vessel pressurization volume is bounded in part by upper vessel surface and outer shroud surface . Inner shroud surge volume is bounded in part inner shroud surface . The inner and outer surfaces of flow shroud are spatially arranged such that a straight line between any point in upper vessel pressurization volume and any point in inner shroud surge volume passes through flow shroud as discussed infra. Additionally upper vessel gas conduit is in fluid communication with upper vessel pressurization volume through an upper vessel flow opening and inner shroud gas conduit is in fluid communication with inner shroud surge volume through an outer shroud flow opening and an inner shroud flow opening.

In operation pulse jet mixing vessel contains a liquid such as water body covering and permeating particle bed and extending into downcoming flow annulus and inner shroud surge volume as illustrated at . At water body is in equilibrium and water surface in downcoming flow annulus is level with water surface inside inner shroud surge volume . During a mixing cycle pulse jet mixing vessel disrupts the equilibrium and generates an inward radial flow around the outer periphery of sludge basin by pressurizing upper vessel pressurization volume through upper vessel gas conduit while venting inner shroud surge volume through inner shroud gas conduit . Alternatively pulse jet mixing vessel generates the inward radial flow with an initial suction phase through application of a vacuum to upper vessel pressurization volume in order to draw water surface toward upper vessel pressurization volume in downcoming flow annulus followed by vacuum relaxation and an inward radial flow resulting from a positive head differential between water surface and water surface .

The generated flows result in a situation where the radial flow Fgenerates reduced turbulent diffusion in the flow as compared to the turning upwash jet flow F. As a result particles in particle bed and subject to the radial flow Fexperience reduced hydrodynamic forces as compared to particles subject to the turning upwash jet flow F and particles subject to the upwash jet flow Fare significantly more likely to be pulled into the flow. As a result particles in the vicinity of the upwash jet such as particle are pulled from particle bed and transported into the liquid volume of water body . Concurrently particles subject to radial flow F while significantly less likely to be pulled from particle bed into the flow experience shear forces with radial flow Fand are driven toward longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and toward the vicinity of the upwash jet. With sufficient pressurization of upper vessel pressurization volume sufficient water inventory and sufficient capacity of inner shroud surge volume among other factors radial flow Fand the expanding upwash jet flow Fmay lift substantially all the particles comprising particle bed into the liquid volume of water body .

It is understood that the inward radial flow Frepresents a flow velocity from the sludge basin outer periphery toward the longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. As a result the inward radial flow Fmay arise as a component of a flow having swirl in a plane perpendicular to the longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. Guidevanes may be implemented in downcoming flow annulus sludge basin surface or other components in contact with water body in order to either encourage or counter the swirl.

Following pressurization upper vessel pressurization volume and inner shroud surge volume may be vented through upper vessel gas conduit and inner shroud gas conduit respectively to restore water surfaces and to equilibrium levels. Similarly particles lifted into the liquid volume of water body are expected to settle by gravity back to sludge basin surface and reform particle bed . Periodic re suspension and settling in this manner significantly mitigates any tendencies toward particle agglomeration and gas trapping which might occur in an unmixed particle bed. Further pulse jet mixing vessel accomplishes this mixing through the mechanical relationship of static internal components greatly reducing any requirements to open the vessel over an operating period. The latter advantage may be particularly significant when periodic mixing of hazardous particles is required. For example when periodic mixing of nuclear waste material of significantly varying particle size and weight is desired.

The spatial relationships between selected components comprising the pulse jet mixing vessel of this disclosure is described with the aid of geometric entities. Within this disclosure the term geometric when applied to a line plane and the like is intended to signify that the line or plane has idealized geometric properties following the Euclidean definitions. Further the term line means a straight line. See e.g. M. Solomonovich. . New York iUniverse 2010 among others. Correspondingly a geometric line geometric plane and the like means the line or plane is not a physical component of the pulse jet mixing apparatus but rather is invoked merely to define spatial and other relationships between the physical components. Further the term curve as used herein means a two dimensional plane curve having spatial properties such that when a plane passes through three points of the curve it passes through all the other points of the curve and includes curves which may be substantially described as a straight line or a series of straight lines or which may be comprised of straight lines.

The relationship between selected components comprising the pulse jet mixing vessel further described with reference to a cross section of the pulse jet mixing vessel generated by a cutting plane Cbounded by longitudinal mixing vessel axis L where longitudinal mixing vessel axis L is a geometric line. The cutting plane Cis a geometric two dimensional closed half plane having the longitudinal mixing vessel axis L as its single defined boundary and consists of all coplanar points on one side of longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and all points intersected by longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and no other points. Additionally within this disclosure an x y z coordinate system is utilized where the origin of the coordinate system is at a first point discussed infra and where the y axis of the x y z coordinate system is collinear with longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. The cutting plane Cis co planer with the x y plane of the x y z coordinate system defined. Within this disclosure the x y z coordinate system may be established in any orientation with respect to the pulse jet mixing vessel provided that the origin of the x y z coordinate system is at the first point and provided that the y axis of the x y z coordinate system is collinear with the longitudinal mixing vessel axis L.

As an example illustrates an upper and lower view of an embodiment of the pulse jet mixing vessel where the upper view is delineated as UV and the lower view is delineated as LV . Upper view UV and lower view LV are rotated 90 degrees with respect to each other as indicated by the associated coordinate directions shown. Additionally the viewpoints are external to the pulse jet mixing vessel however for reference the lower view LV also illustrates hidden lines within this embodiment showing sludge basin surface flow surface upper vessel surface and flow shroud . Longitudinal mixing vessel axis L is a geometric line in the lower view LV and correspondingly illustrated as a point in the upper view UV .

At an x axis a y axis and a z axis originate at an origin O. The origin O corresponds to a first point where the first point is a specific point on sludge basin surface as will be discussed infra. The x axis the y axis and the z axis form a right hand coordinate system where the y axis is collinear with longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and cutting plane Cis a geometric two dimensional closed half plane having the longitudinal mixing vessel axis L as its single defined boundary and co planer with the x y plane as earlier defined. Correspondingly the cutting plane Cis illustrated in the upper view UV as a geometric ray coincident with the x axis and extending from longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. Additionally some spatial relationships are described with reference to a second cutting plane C where the second cutting plane Cis an open half plane in the x y plane and having longitudinal mixing vessel axis L as a boundary and which is displaced from cutting plane Cby an angle of 180 180 degrees in the x z plane as illustrated.

The relationship between selected components comprising the pulse jet mixing vessel is further described with reference to . represents a cross section of pulse jet mixing vessel based on a cutting plane C not shown as earlier defined. Additionally as earlier defined a first point defines an origin for an x axis and a y axis where the y axis is collinear with longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. The x axis and y axis are not shown at however for reference an x y z directional axis is indicated. As earlier defined the cutting plane Cis co planer with the x z plane.

At pulse jet mixing vessel is comprised of sludge basin surface similarly represented by the cross section resulting from cutting plane C. Sludge basin surface has spatial properties such that an intersection between sludge basin surface and the cutting plane Cgenerates a sludge basin plane curve in the cutting plane C where the sludge basin curve originates at the first point located on longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and extends to a second point on the sludge basin outer periphery. First point additionally defines a first point perpendicular where first point perpendicular is a geometric line perpendicular to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and passing through first point . Second point additionally defines a second point perpendicular and a second point parallel where second point perpendicular is a geometric line perpendicular to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and passing through second point and where second point parallel is a geometric line parallel to mixing vessel axis L and passing through second point .

In an embodiment the sludge basin curve resulting from the intersection between sludge basin surface and cutting plane Ccan be substantially described by a first mathematical function from first point to second point where the first mathematical function may be a piece wise mathematical function. The first mathematical function has a variable x and a variable y where the variable x describes points on the x axis and where the variable y describes points on the y axis and where the first mathematical function treats the variable x as an independent variable and the variable y as a dependent variable such that the first mathematical function assigns one dependent variable y to each independent variable x. In an embodiment the first mathematical function has a defined first derivative of the variable x with respect to the variable y from first point to second point . In another embodiment the first mathematical function does not have a point of inflection from first point to second point .

Within this disclosure the terms substantially described substantially describes and the like when applied to a mathematical function describing a generated curve formed by the intersection between a given surface and the cutting plane C is intended to mean that the mathematical function describes the generated curve as an intended article of manufacture and that the mathematical function is not invalidated by the presence of incidental surface variations incurred as an unintended result of a manufacturing process. For example if a sludge basin curve is substantially described by a first mathematical function assigning one dependent first variable y to each independent first variable x as an intended article of manufacture and the subsequently fabricated sludge basin generates a fabricated sludge basin curve which includes incidental surface variations that arise as a result of casting polishing grinding or another fabrication processes and one or more of the incidental surface variations results in the fabricated sludge basin curve departing from the strict mathematical definition of the first mathematical function a first mathematical function which substantially describes the sludge basin curve includes those incidental departures present in the fabricated sludge basin curve.

It is understood that the sludge basin surface as described may be penetrated by operational flow conduits or openings in fluid or other communication with the interior of the pulse jet mixing vessel in order to satisfy additional operational necessities. For example the sludge basin surface or other surface may be comprised of a sludge inlet outlet flow conduit in fluid communication with the interior of the pulse jet mixing vessel in order to provide a pathway through which sludge and sediment may be inserted into or extracted from the pulse jet mixing vessel. As a result when the cutting plane Chas an orientation with respect to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L such that cutting plane Cpasses through a region where an operational flow conduit or opening penetrates the sludge basin surface a portion of the resulting sludge basin curve will be comprised of a flow section. For example at a sludge basin surface is penetrated by an operational flow conduit intended to serve as a sludge inlet outlet flow conduit. A cutting plane C not shown in the x y plane has an orientation such the cutting plane Cpasses through operational flow conduit . As before a sludge basin curve originates at first point on longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and extends to second point . However the sludge basin curve from first point to second point consists of a first section from first point to contact point P a flow section from contact point Pto contact point P and a third section from contact point Pto second point . The contact points Pand Pare points on sludge basin surface in contact with operational flow conduit where operational flow conduit penetrates sludge basin surface . The sludge basin curve from first point to second point is thus comprised of flow section where flow section is a geometric line segment between contact points Pand Pand having Pand Pas endpoints.

Within this disclosure a flow section means a geometric line segment from a first contact point to a second contact point and having the first contact point and the second contact point as endpoints where the first contact point and the second contact points are points on a surface and in contact with an operational flow conduit or opening penetrating the surface and where the first contact point and the second contact point are intersected by a cutting plane C where the cutting plane Cfurther and necessarily intersects the operational flow conduit or opening. Within this disclosure when a surface such as the sludge basin surface is penetrated by an operational flow conduit or opening and a cutting plane Chas an orientation such that the cutting plane Cintersects the operational flow opening or conduit such that first and second contact points arise as defined and such that a flow section exists as defined then the resulting curve generated by an intersection between the cutting plane Cand the surface is comprised of the flow section.

As is understood flow sections arising from a given operational flow conduit or opening penetrating a surface of the pulse jet mixing vessel may be parameterized and integrated to give a flow opening surface area. Typically the flow opening surface area will be significantly less than the total surface area of the penetrated surface. For example in an embodiment the total of all flow opening surface areas in the sludge basin surface is less than about 10 of the total surface area of the sludge basin surface.

In an embodiment longitudinal mixing vessel axis L is a line of symmetry with respect to the sludge basin curve except for cutting plane Corientations where the cutting plane Cintersects a penetrating operational flow conduit or opening and the resulting flow sections are not reflected across the longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. When the longitudinal mixing vessel axis L is a line of symmetry and second cutting plane Cintersects the sludge basin surface where second cutting plane Cis as earlier defined the intersection of the second cutting plane Cand the sludge basin surface is substantially described by a reflected first mathematical function in the second cutting plane C. The reflected first mathematical function thus substantially describes a second sludge basin curve in the second cutting plane C where the second sludge basin curve is a mirror image of the sludge basin curve with respect to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. For example depicts a cross section view of a sludge basin generated by the cutting plane C not shown defined earlier where a sludge basin curve extends from first point to second point and results from the intersection of sludge basin surface and cutting plane C. At longitudinal mixing vessel axis L is a line of symmetry and the second cutting plane C not shown intersects sludge basin surface and generates the second sludge basin curve extending from first point to mirror point . The reflected first mathematical function from first point to mirror point is a reflection of the first mathematical function from first point to second point with respect to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and the second sludge basin curve in the second cutting plane Cis substantially a mirror image of the sludge basin curve in the cutting plane C.

In a further embodiment the first mathematical function substantially describes a generatrix of sludge basin surface for all cutting plane Corientations except those orientations where cutting plane Cintersects a penetrating operational flow conduit or opening and sludge basin surface is a surface of revolution about longitudinal mixing vessel axis L for all areas of the sludge basin surface except those areas where the sludge basin curve includes a flow section. In another embodiment the sludge basin surface and the annulus may be baffled to assist in directing an inward radial flow toward longitudinal mixing vessel axis L or a similar reason.

Pulse jet mixing vessel is further comprised of flow surface similarly represented by the cross section resulting from cutting plane C. Flow surface has spatial properties such that an intersection between flow surface and the cutting plane Cgenerates a flow surface curve in the cutting plane C where the flow surface curve originates at the second point and extends to a third point on the upper vessel periphery. Third point additionally defines a third point perpendicular and a third point parallel where third point perpendicular is a geometric line perpendicular to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and passing through third point and where third point parallel is a geometric line parallel to mixing vessel axis L and passing through third point . Third point is located such that second point parallel is between third point parallel and mixing vessel axis L and further located such that either second point perpendicular is located between third point perpendicular and first point perpendicular or first point perpendicular is located between third point perpendicular and second point perpendicular .

In an embodiment the flow surface curve resulting from the intersection between flow surface and cutting plane Ccan be substantially described by a second mathematical function from second point to third point where the second mathematical function may be a piece wise mathematical function. The second mathematical function has the variable x and the variable y and the second mathematical function treats the variable y as an independent variable and the variable x as a dependent variable such that the second mathematical function assigns one dependent variable x to each independent variable y. In an embodiment all values of the dependent variable x generated by the second mathematical function are greater than or equal to a value of x where the second point parallel intersects the x axis. In another embodiment the second mathematical function has a defined first derivative of the variable y with respect to the variable x from second point to third point . In another embodiment the second mathematical function does not have a point of inflection from second point to third point .

Similar to the sludge basin surface the flow surface may be penetrated by operational flow conduits or openings in fluid or other communication with the interior of the pulse jet mixing vessel. When a cutting plane Chas an orientation with respect to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L such that the cutting plane Cpasses through a region where an operational flow conduit or opening penetrates the flow surface a portion of the resulting flow surface curve will be comprised of a flow section extended between two contact points where the contact points are intersected by the cutting plane Cand where the cutting plane Cfurther and necessarily intersects the operational flow conduit or opening as earlier discussed. Typically the flow opening surface area of all operational flow conduits or openings penetrating the flow surface will be significantly less than the total surface area of the flow surface. In an embodiment the flow opening surface area of all operational flow conduits or openings penetrating the flow surface is less than about 10 of the total surface area of the flow surface.

In an embodiment longitudinal mixing vessel axis L is a line of symmetry with respect to the flow surface sludge basin curve except for cutting plane Corientations where the cutting plane Cintersects a penetrating operational flow conduit or opening and the resulting flow sections are not reflected across the longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. In this embodiment a second flow surface curve generated by an intersection between the flow surface and the second cutting plane Cdefined earlier is substantially described by a reflected second mathematical function in the second cutting plane C such that the reflected second mathematical function is a reflection of the second mathematical function with respect to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. In a further embodiment the second mathematical function substantially describes a generatrix of flow surface for all cutting plane Corientations except those orientations where cutting plane Cintersects a penetrating operational flow conduit or opening and flow surface is a surface of revolution about longitudinal mixing vessel axis L for all areas of flow surface except those areas where the flow surface curve includes a flow section.

Pulse jet mixing vessel is further comprised of upper vessel surface similarly represented by the cross section resulting from cutting plane C. Upper vessel surface has spatial properties such that an intersection between upper vessel surface and the cutting plane Cgenerates an upper vessel curve in the cutting plane C where the upper vessel curve originates at the third point and extends to a fourth point on longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. Fourth point additionally defines a fourth point perpendicular where fourth point perpendicular is a geometric line perpendicular to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and passing through fourth point . Fourth point is located such that third point perpendicular is between fourth point perpendicular and second point perpendicular . Additionally the upper vessel curve does not intersect longitudinal mixing vessel axis L between third point and fourth point .

Similar to the sludge basin curve when a cutting plane Chas an orientation with respect to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L such that the cutting plane Cpasses through an operational flow conduit or opening penetrating the upper vessel surface a portion of the resulting upper vessel curve will be comprised of a flow section extended between two contact points as earlier discussed. As will be explained the upper vessel surface is penetrated by at least an upper vessel flow opening where the upper vessel flow opening is an operational flow conduit or opening in fluid communication with an upper vessel gas conduit. Typically the flow opening surface area of all operational flow conduits or openings penetrating the upper vessel surface will be significantly less than the total surface area of the upper vessel surface. In an embodiment the flow opening surface area of all operational flow conduits or openings penetrating the upper vessel surface is less than 5 of the total surface area of the upper vessel surface.

Pulse jet mixing vessel is further comprised of flow shroud which is comprised of inner shroud surface and outer shroud surface . Flow shroud inner shroud surface and outer shroud surface are similarly represented by the cross section resulting from cutting plane C. Inner shroud surface has spatial properties such that an intersection between inner shroud surface and the cutting plane Cgenerates an inner shroud curve in the cutting plane C where the inner shroud curve originates at a fifth point and extends to a sixth point where the fifth point is on longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. Fifth point additionally defines a fifth point perpendicular where fifth point perpendicular is a geometric line perpendicular to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and passing through fifth point . Fifth point is located such that fifth point perpendicular is between fourth point perpendicular and third point perpendicular . Additionally the inner shroud curve does not intersect longitudinal mixing vessel axis L at any points with the exception of fifth point . Further sixth point is located between third point perpendicular and second point perpendicular and between third point parallel and longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. Additionally the inner shroud curve does not intersect the upper vessel curve at any points.

Similar to the sludge basin curve when a cutting plane Chas an orientation with respect to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L such that the cutting plane Cpasses through an operational flow conduit or opening penetrating the inner shroud surface a portion of the resulting inner shroud curve will be comprised of a flow section extended between two contact points as earlier discussed. In an embodiment and similar to the upper vessel surface the inner shroud surface is penetrated by at least an inner shroud flow opening as will be discussed and may be penetrated by additional operational flow conduits or openings. In an embodiment the flow opening surface area of all operational flow conduits or openings penetrating the inner shroud surface is less than 5 of the total surface area of the inner shroud surface.

In an embodiment longitudinal mixing vessel axis L is a line of symmetry with respect to the inner shroud curve except for cutting plane Corientations where the cutting plane Cintersects a penetrating operational flow conduit or opening and the resulting flow sections are not reflected across the longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. In this embodiment a second inner shroud curve generated by an intersection between inner shroud surface and the second cutting plane Cdefined earlier is substantially a mirror image of the inner shroud curve. In a further embodiment the inner shroud curve is a generatrix of inner shroud surface for all cutting plane Corientations except those orientations where cutting plane Cintersects a penetrating operational flow conduit or opening and inner shroud surface is a surface of revolution about mixing vessel axis L for all areas of inner shroud surface except those areas where the inner shroud curve includes a flow section. In another embodiment the inner shroud curve can be substantially described by a third mathematical function from fifth point to sixth point where the third mathematical function may be a piece wise mathematical function and where the third mathematical function has the variable x and the variable y and where the third mathematical function treats the variable y as an independent variable and the variable x as a dependent variable.

Outer shroud surface has spatial properties such that an intersection between outer shroud surface and the cutting plane Cgenerates an outer shroud curve in the cutting plane C. The outer shroud curve is between the inner shroud curve and the upper vessel curve originates at a point on longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and extends to a point between third point perpendicular and second point perpendicular and between third point parallel and longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. The outer shroud curve does intersect the upper vessel curve or the inner shroud curve at any points.

Similar to the inner shroud curve when a cutting plane Chas an orientation with respect to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L such that the cutting plane Cpasses through an operational flow conduit or opening penetrating the outer shroud surface a portion of the resulting outer shroud curve will be comprised of a flow section extended between two contact points as earlier discussed. In an embodiment and similar to the inner shroud surface the outer shroud surface is penetrated by at least an outer shroud flow opening as will be discussed and may be penetrated by additional operational flow conduits or openings. In an embodiment the flow opening surface area of all operational flow conduits or openings penetrating the outer shroud surface is less than 5 of the total surface area of the outer shroud surface.

In an embodiment longitudinal mixing vessel axis L is a line of symmetry with respect to the outer shroud curve except for cutting plane Corientations where the cutting plane Cintersects a penetrating operational flow conduit or opening and the resulting flow sections are not reflected across the longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. In this embodiment a second outer shroud curve generated by an intersection between outer shroud surface and the second cutting plane Cdefined earlier is substantially a mirror image of the outer shroud curve. In a further embodiment the outer shroud curve is a generatrix of outer shroud surface for all cutting plane Corientations except those orientations where cutting plane Cintersects a penetrating operational flow conduit or opening and outer shroud surface is a surface of revolution about mixing vessel axis L for all areas of outer shroud surface except those areas where the outer shroud curve includes a flow section. In another embodiment the outer shroud curve can be substantially described by a fourth mathematical function where the fourth mathematical function may be a piece wise mathematical function and where the fourth mathematical function has the variable x and the variable y and where the fourth mathematical function treats the variable y as an independent variable and the variable x as a dependent variable.

The pulse jet mixing vessel is further comprised of a downcoming flow annulus upper vessel pressurization volume and inner shroud surge volume . Downcoming flow annulus upper vessel pressurization volume and inner shroud surge volume are similarly represented by the cross section resulting from cutting plane C.

Downcoming flow annulus is between at least a portion of flow surface and at least a portion of outer shroud surface where the portion of outer shroud surface is between third point perpendicular and second point perpendicular . Downcoming flow annulus has spatial properties such that an intersection between downcoming flow annulus and the cutting plane Cgenerates a line segment from flow surface to outer shroud surface where the line segment is parallel to third point perpendicular . As discussed outer shroud surface extends to a point between third point perpendicular and second point perpendicular .

In an embodiment a single horizontal geometric plane perpendicular to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L passes through all flow surface curves and all outer shroud curves. Here all flow surface curves means any flow surface curve generated by an intersection of flow surface with the cutting plane Cwhen cutting plane Chas any orientation provided the longitudinal mixing vessel axis L is parallel to or coincident with the y coordinate axis shown as earlier discussed. Similarly all outer shroud curves means any outer shroud curve generated by an intersection of outer shroud surface with the cutting plane Cwhen cutting plane Chas any orientation provided the longitudinal mixing vessel axis L is parallel to or coincident with the y coordinate axis shown as earlier discussed. In this embodiment downcoming flow annulus is comprised of the area between flow surface and outer shroud surface and coplanar with the single horizontal geometric plane.

In another embodiment the at least a portion of flow surface and or the at least a portion of outer shroud surface bounding downcoming flow annulus is comprised of vanes or baffles to impart a swirl in the x z plane to water expelled from downcoming flow annulus .

As discussed upper vessel pressurization volume is bounded in part by upper vessel surface and outer shroud surface . Upper vessel pressurization volume is in fluid communication with the upper vessel flow opening as discussed and further in fluid communication with downcoming flow annulus by virtue of the placement of outer shroud surface between inner shroud surface and upper vessel surface . As a result when longitudinal mixing vessel L is aligned with a gravity vector and a body of fluid extends from sludge basin surface into downcoming flow annulus a pressure applied through the upper vessel flow opening to upper vessel pressurization volume may act to expel at least a portion of the fluid from downcoming flow annulus toward sludge basin surface subsequently generating an inward radial flow and upwash jet over sludge basin surface .

Additionally as discussed inner shroud surge volume is bounded in part by inner shroud surface such that a straight line between any point in upper vessel pressurization volume and any point in inner shroud surge volume passes through flow shroud . As a result when longitudinal mixing vessel L is aligned with a gravity vector and a body of fluid extends from sludge basin surface into downcoming flow annulus and into a portion of inner shroud surge volume and when a pressure is applied to upper vessel pressurization volume flow shroud isolates inner shroud surge volume from direct pressurization by upper vessel pressurization volume and fluid expelled from downcoming flow annulus generates a fluid surge into inner shroud surge volume .

In a particular embodiment flow surface outer shroud surface and inner shroud surface form an elliptical preferably circular closed curve at the intersection of each respective surface with a geometrical plane perpendicular to longitudinal mixing vessel axis L with the exception of intersections occurring at points on the longitudinal mixing vessel axis L. Such surface geometries can be beneficial in the creation of an inward radial flow and subsequent upwash jet over sludge basin surface . In a further embodiment the flow surface curve of flow surface the outer shroud curve of outer shroud surface and the inner shroud curve of inner shroud surface are each a generatrix of the respective surfaces such that the respective surfaces are surfaces of revolution about longitudinal mixing vessel axis L.

In order to allow pressurization and venting of the upper vessel pressurization volume and as earlier referenced the upper vessel surface is comprised of an upper vessel flow opening in fluid communication with the upper vessel pressurization volume and further in fluid communication with an upper vessel gas conduit. This is illustrated at showing upper vessel gas conduit penetrating upper vessel surface and illustrating an upper vessel curve from third point to fourth point generated by the intersection of a cutting plane C not shown an upper vessel surface where the cutting plane Cadditionally passes through upper vessel gas conduit . This orientation of cutting plane Cgenerates upper vessel flow opening where upper vessel opening is shown as a flow section as earlier defined and where upper vessel opening is in fluid communication with upper vessel pressurization volume and further in fluid communication with upper vessel gas conduit . Similarly in order to allow venting of the inner shroud surge volume in an embodiment the inner shroud surface is comprised of an inner shroud flow opening in fluid communication with the inner shroud surge volume and further in fluid communication with an outer shroud flow opening where the outer shroud flow opening is in fluid communication with an inner shroud gas conduit. As illustrated at inner shroud gas conduit penetrates inner shroud surface and outer shroud surface with an inner shroud curve from fifth point to sixth point and an outer shroud curve between the inner shroud curve and the upper vessel curve. The inner and outer shroud curves are generated by the intersection of a cutting plane C not shown with the respective inner and outer shroud surfaces and the cutting plane Cadditionally passes through inner shroud gas conduit . This orientation of cutting plane Cgenerates inner shroud flow opening and outer shroud flow opening where inner shroud flow opening and outer shroud flow opening are shown as flow sections as earlier defined. As described inner shroud flow opening is in fluid communication with inner shroud surge volume and further in fluid communication with outer shroud flow opening and outer shroud flow opening is in fluid communication with inner shroud gas conduit .

In another embodiment the sludge basin surface is comprised of a central cusp generally in the center of the sludge basin surface in order to turn an inward radial flow converging toward the center and expand the flow in an upwash jet. Such an embodiment is depicted at where depicts a cross section view of a sludge basin generated by the cutting plane C not shown defined earlier. As earlier defined an x axis originates at first point and is collinear with first point perpendicular and a y axis originates at first point and is collinear with longitudinal mixing vessel axis L with the directions of increasingly positive axes values as illustrated. A sludge basin curve extends from first point to second point and results from the intersection between sludge basin surface and cutting plane C. At the sludge basin curve crosses first point perpendicular and is comprised of points having a coordinate on the y axis more negative than both the point of intersection between longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and first point perpendicular and the point of intersection between longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and second point perpendicular based on an origin at the intersection of longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and first point perpendicular as earlier defined. In such cases the sludge basin curve generates sludge basin surface having a central cusp surrounded by a trough like region. Such a central cusp region may be beneficial in turning and expanding the inward radial flow into the upwash jet as well as mitigating the solids hold up that is often observed in radial and axial impellor stirring tanks. In a further embodiment illustrated at and depicting sludge basin sludge basin surface longitudinal mixing vessel axis L first point second point first point perpendicular and second point perpendicular and based on the origin at first point as earlier defined a point of intersection between longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and second point perpendicular describes a negative y coordinate and the sludge basin curve is comprised of points having a coordinate on the y axis more negative than both the point of intersection between longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and first point perpendicular and the point of intersection between longitudinal mixing vessel axis L and second point perpendicular such that the central cusp region extends above the sludge basin outer periphery.

In a further embodiment depicted at the upper vessel gas conduit of mixing vessel is in fluid communication with upper pressurization volume through the upper vessel flow opening not shown and further in fluid communication with a first pressure line comprised of a first pressure valve . A flowpath through the first pressure line to the upper vessel gas conduit exists when the first pressure valve is open. Upper vessel gas conduit of mixing vessel is further in fluid communication with a first vent line comprised of a first vent valve and a flowpath through the first vent line to the upper vessel gas conduit exists when the first pressure valve is open. Additionally inner shroud gas conduit is in fluid communication with inner shroud surge volume through the upper shroud flow opening and the inner shroud flow opening not shown and further in fluid communication with second vent line comprised of second vent valve such that a flowpath through second vent line to the inner shroud gas conduit exists when second vent valve is open.

In a particular embodiment first pressure valve first vent valve and second vent valve are automatically operated valves and mixing vessel is further comprised of a valve control system . Valve control system is in signal communication with first pressure valve first vent valve and second vent valve where the signal communication is electric electronic fluid mechanical or some other means by which valve control system may direct valve positioning. In this embodiment valve control system has an upper vessel pressurization mode which maintains first pressure valve and the second vent valve open while the first vent valve is shut and valve control system has an upper vessel depressurization mode which maintains first vent valve and second vent valve open while first pressure valve is shut. In operation when the longitudinal mixing vessel axis L of mixing vessel is aligned with a gravity vector and a body of water extends from sludge basin surface and into downcoming flow annulus and inner shroud surge volume the upper vessel pressurization mode valve control system may be employed to pressurize upper vessel pressurization volume through first pressure valve while venting inner shroud surge volume through first vent valve thereby expelling water from downcoming flow annulus generating an inward radial flow and upwash jet over sludge basin surface and generating inflow into inner shroud surge volume . Subsequently gaseous pressures in upper vessel pressurization volume and inner shroud surge volume may be equalized and water levels returned to equilibrium values using the upper vessel depressurization mode of valve control system .

Pressurization of upper pressurization volume may be accomplished through the application of either a gaseous or liquid medium under pressure through first pressure line . Similarly venting of inner shroud gas conduit may be accomplished through the issue of either a gaseous or liquid medium through second vent line . Use of incompressible liquid mediums through both first pressure line and second vent line may dictate operations where first pressure line and second vent line are simultaneously open to avoid over pressurization of mixing vessel .

Thus provided here a pulse jet mixing vessel designed to promote the mixing of solid particles contained in a sludge basin. In operation a liquid such as water is additionally held by the sludge basin and the pulse jet mixing vessel achieves particle mixing by periodically generating an inward radial flow from around the outer periphery of the sludge basin and radially inwards toward the center of the sludge basin. The pulse jet mixing vessel is described such that radial stream lines converge inwardly and accelerate as the center of the sludge basin is approached and subsequently expand in an upwash jet. The vessel achieves the inward radial flow from pressurization of an upper vessel pressurization space which expels liquid from a downcoming flow annulus and over a flow surface around the sludge basin surface. The expelled water is accommodated by an inner shroud surge volume. Periodic re suspension and settling in this manner significantly mitigates any tendencies toward particle agglomeration and gas trapping which might occur in an unmixed particle bed. Additionally the pulse jet mixing vessel accomplishes the mixing through the mechanical relationship of static internal components. The latter advantage is particularly significant when periodic mixing of hazardous particles is required such as periodic mixing of nuclear waste material of significantly varying particle size and weight.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

