---

title: Reporting and managing incidents
abstract: Various embodiments of systems and methods for reporting and managing incidents are described herein. In one aspect, the method includes identifying a user logged into an incident reporting and alerting portal. A category for the logged-in user is identified. The category includes one of a reporter, a volunteer, and a responder. An incident report is received from the reporter. It is determined whether a comment is received on the incident report from the responder. When the comment is received, the comment is notified to the reporter. It is determined whether a reply to the comment is received from the reporter. When the reply to the comment is received, the reply is notified to the responder who commented on the incident report.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08786433&OS=08786433&RS=08786433
owner: SAP AG
number: 08786433
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120628
---
Incidents posing a level of threat to life health property or environment should be reported. Incidents include for example a riot a fire in a factory a flood an earthquake etc. Now a days people can report incidents using the internet on social media websites such as Twitter Facebook etc. Various social media sites are dedicated for gathering information on specific type of incidents. For example Twitter Earthquake Detector TED site is dedicated for gathering information on earthquake. Typically TED can help people monitor the probability of occurrence of earthquake in a particular region. People can also discuss or inquire about incidents using the social media sites. Discussions on social media sites may be open ended wherein relevant information may not be channelized to the right people who may execute actions to prevent damages caused by the incidents 

Embodiments of techniques for reporting and managing incidents arc described herein. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one of the one or more embodiments. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

The following terminology is used while disclosing embodiments. One skilled in the art will recognize that these terms and examples they are used in are merely illustrative.

A participant or a user is a person who uses an incident reporting and alerting portal IRAP or other social media sites such as Twitter Facebook etc. for reporting incidents or exchanging information on incidents.

A reporter is a participant who reports about an incident. For example the reporter may share photographs and or news related to any disaster or incident. In one embodiment the reporter generates and submits an incident report related to the incident.

A volunteer is a participant who is typically may not exclusively associated with an emergency management organization like firefighters rescue services etc. The volunteer may be trained or may have profound knowledge in a particular emergency management domain. In one embodiment the volunteer rates edits or spreads information provided by the reporter.

A responder is a participant who may actively work to prevent or mitigate a disaster or an emergency. In one embodiment the responder may be the volunteer who works actively to mitigate or prevent the emergency.

The reporter usually generates an incident report related to an incident. The generated incident report is submitted by the reporter. The submitted incident report is received at step . In one embodiment the submitted incident reports are stored in a list which may be rendered on the IRAP. The user sends a request for displaying the incident report at step . In one embodiment the request may be sent by selecting the incident report front the list. The selected incident report is rendered on a user interface UI at step . In one embodiment the responder may inquire about the incident report. It is determined whether the comment or inquiry is received related to the incident report at step . If the comment is received step YES the comment is notified to the reporter who submitted the incident report at step . In one embodiment the reporter submits a reply to the comment. It is determined whether the reply to the comment is submitted at step . If the reply to the comment is submitted step YES the reply is notified to the responder who commented on the incident report at step . In one embodiment the reply is also notified to one or more users interested in the incident.

The users registered under various categories are provided various widgets. For example the users registered as the reporter are provided widgets such as email tool a mobile tool and a browser extension tool to report the incidents. In one embodiment the reporter can report the incident by sending an email to a registered email ID. In one embodiment when the reporter selects the email tool an email window with To field of the email window automatically populated with a registered email ID e.g. emergency incrpt.com is generated. In one embodiment the email window is generated from the reporter personal email tools available on the reporter computer systems e.g. Microsoft Outlook. The reporter can compose the email including various details about the incident e.g. data of the incident location of the incident and description of the incident. The composed email is sent on the registered email ID. The volunteer can read the emails received on the registered email ID.

In one embodiment the mobile tool enables the reporter to report the incidents from any mobile device e.g. a cell phone. In one embodiment the reporter can report incident via a short messaging services SMS . The reporter can send the SMS to a registered cell phone for reporting incidents. In one embodiment when the mobile tool is selected the SMS may be composed and send to the registered cell phone. In one embodiment the volunteer can read the SMS received on the registered cell phone. In another embodiment the volunteer composes the incident report based upon the email or the SMS received from the reporter

In one embodiment the reporter generates the incident report e.g. I by using the browser extension tool . In one embodiment the browser extension tool is a reporting icon which may be selected by the reporter . Once the reporting icon is selected an incident report window is generated. The report incident window enables the reporter to report the incident. The report incident window includes various fields e.g. date field for mentioning the date of the incident location field for mentioning location of the incident a description field for mentioning details of the incident like what happened and an attachment field for uploading or attaching at least one of an image an audio and a video related to the incident. The report incident window also includes a reporting button . Once the details of the incident are completed by the reporter the reporting button may be triggered or selected. Upon selecting the reporting button the incident report I is submitted on the IRAP . The submitted reports are stored in a database. In one embodiment a confirmation message is sent to the reporter who submitted the incident report I.

In one embodiment the reporter creates their own website or a browser for reporting incidents or submitting the incident reports. The reporter website may include a reporter home page and contact information of the reporter. In one embodiment the volunteer is provided a widgets e.g. a report incident icon which the volunteer can place on the reporter browser to encourage the reporter for reporting incidents or submitting incident reports e.g. I.

The volunteers can place the widget like report incident icon on any website to enable anyone to report incidents and become the reporter . Alternately the volunteer encourages the users to report incidents. For example the volunteer can place the report incident icon on any social media sites such as Twitter Facebook etc. to encourage the users of those websites to report incidents. In one embodiment the volunteer is required to seek permission from an owner or manager of the websites to place the widgets like report incident icon upon their websites. In one embodiment the volunteer . creates their portal or website to enable reporters to report incidents. The website includes a volunteer home page and a report incident button to encourage the participants or the users to report the incident.

In one embodiment once the report incident button is selected multiple steps e.g. step and step may be displayed in a new window for reporting incident or submitting the incident report. In one embodiment in step the reporter can enter various information related to the incident e.g. location of the incident the date and time of the incident description of the incident and in step various attachments e.g. the image the audio or the video related to the incident may be uploaded. Once the information related to the incident is completed the incident report may be submitted.

Once the incident report is submitted the volunteer may peruse the incident report. In one embodiment the volunteer may peruse the incident report to check whether the incident report is genuine. In one embodiment the volunteer may edit the incident report to further add information or to improve the quality of the incident report. In one embodiment the volunteer classifies the incident reports I IN. In another embodiment the volunteer rates the incident reports I IN. The incident reports I IN are rated based upon their usefulness i.e. whether the incident report is useful or not.

In one embodiment all the submitted incident reports I IN is displayed in a list . In one embodiment the user selects an icon e.g. a list icon to display the list . The list may be filtered based upon various parameters related to the incident. In one embodiment the parameters may include at least one of a geographical area or location of the incident a time of the incident and a category or type of the incident. The user can select an incident report I of their choice from the list . The selected incident report I is displayed in a window stacked over the list . In another embodiment the selected incident report I is displayed in a window generated as a separate web page not shown .

The incident report I may be read by anyone. For example the responder can read the incident report. Upon reading the incident report I if the responder has any query related to the incident report I the responder can inquire about it. In one embodiment the responder can inquire about the incident report by writing or embedding a comment bold font inside the incident report I. In one embodiment the responder is provided an inquiry tool for inquiring about the incident. In one embodiment when the responder selects the inquiry tool an inquiry window not shown may be generated. The inquiry window may include a submit inquiry button. The responder can compose the inquiry within the inquiry window. Once the inquiry is composed the responder can click the submit inquiry button to submit the composed inquiry. In one embodiment the submitted inquiry may be read by the volunteer . In another embodiment the submitted inquiry may be read by the reporter .

The comment or inquiry is notified to the reporter who submitted the incident report I. The reporter may reply back to the comment or inquiry. The reply is notified to the responder who commented on the incident report I. In one embodiment the reply is sent to the responder on their registered mobile phone via SMS or to their registered email ID. In another embodiment the reply is also notified to one or more users interested in the incident.

In one embodiment the volunteer is also provided a watch list widget . Using the watch list widget the volunteer can create various keywords or tags related to the incidents. In one embodiment the tag may be a hash tag i.e. the tag prefixed with a hash or symbol used on Twitter . Once the watch list widget is selected a watch list window is displayed. The volunteer can create or compose several tags related to the incident. For example as shown in the volunteer can create the hash tags namely ABC earthquake and emergency. The tags are then linked to the required social networking site containing information on those tags. For example the hash tags earthquake and emergency are linked to Twitter Once the hash tags are linked to the required social media website the information on the hash tags may be retrieved from that social media website. For example once the hash tag e.g. earthquake is linked to the Twitter all the tweets related to the hash tag earthquake are retrieved from the Twitter . Typically once the hash tag earthquake is selected the IRAP connects to Twitter and all the tweets related to the selected hash tag are downloaded and displayed. In one embodiment the watch list window also includes trending topics illustrating current topics of discussion. The watch list window also includes a search topics tool to enable the volunteer to search the topics of their interest.

Embodiments described above provide a single platform for all participants including reporters volunteers and responders to participate for reporting and handling incidents. Categorization of participants into reporters volunteers and responders provides a well structured platform wherein the roles of participants are clearly defined to efficiently handle the incidents. Volunteers are the central entity that encourage monitor and guide other participants for reporting and handling incidents. The platform also encourages everyone to contribute to the incidents as the contribution of the participants are published e.g. displayed to their friends. Various widgets and tools are provided to the participants to enable them to perform their task efficiently. The participants have flexibility to select the tools or widgets of their choice to perform their respective tasks. The platform is connectable to other social networking sites e.g. Twitter Facebook etc. and therefore the participants can easily report incidents from the social networking sites they use every day. Consequently the system is efficient and user friendly which saves resource time and effort that might be wasted in gathering and channelizing the information to appropriate people. Additionally the platform is extensible and new tools or widgets can be easily plugged in into the platform.

Some embodiments may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components maybe implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic indicator devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment may be implemented using Java or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open Database Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. an ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the one or more embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in details.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the one or more embodiments. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the embodiment are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the embodiments as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made to the embodiments in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope of the one or more embodiments are to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

