---

title: Customizable media auto-reply systems and methods
abstract: An auto-reply service provides to callers event-specific audiovisual media messages that were custom recorded on the callee's mobile-telephony device. The auto-reply service selects the media messages at least in part based on an event schedule associated with the callee.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08666375&OS=08666375&RS=08666375
owner: RealNetworks, Inc.
number: 08666375
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121214
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 570 770 titled CUSTOMIZABLE MEDIA AUTO REPLY SYSTEMS AND METHODS filed Nov. 22 2011 and naming inventors Jun Lee and Robert D. Glaser. The above cited application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The present disclosure relates to the field of mobile communications and more particularly to providing customizable media auto reply messages to callers of mobile users.

People may not answer calls to their mobile phones for a variety of reasons. For example they may be attending an important meeting driving a car or traveling. Typically the caller reaches the callee s voicemail which prompts the caller to leave a message or to try calling back later. However the generic greetings of a voicemail typically do not inform the caller of the reason for the callee s failure to answer the call during that particular event. Consequently the callee may feel anxious or ignored. On the other hand the phone calls may disrupt a meeting distract a driver or otherwise put undue pressure on the callee to return the calls.

In accordance with various embodiments an auto reply service may provide customizable media messages to callers of the mobile users during user specified time periods when the mobile users are unavailable to answer the calls.

The detailed description that follows is represented largely in terms of processes and symbolic representations of operations by conventional computer components including a processor memory storage devices for the processor connected display devices and input devices. Furthermore these processes and operations may utilize conventional computer components in a heterogeneous distributed computing environment including remote file servers computer servers and or memory storage devices. Each of these conventional distributed computing components is accessible by the processor via a communication network.

The phrases in one embodiment in various embodiments in some embodiments and the like are used repeatedly. Such phrases do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment. The terms comprising having and including are synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

Reference is now made in detail to the description of the embodiments as illustrated in the drawings. While embodiments are described in connection with the drawings and related descriptions there is no intent to limit the scope to the embodiments disclosed herein. On the contrary the intent is to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents. In alternate embodiments additional devices or combinations of illustrated devices may be added to or combined without limiting the scope to the embodiments disclosed herein.

Auto reply server is also in communication with database . In some embodiments auto reply server may communicate with database via data network a storage area network SAN a high speed serial bus and or via the other suitable communication technology.

In various embodiments auto reply server and or database may comprise one or more physical and or logical devices that collectively provide the functionalities described herein. In some embodiments auto reply server and or database may comprise one or more replicated and or distributed physical or logical devices. In some embodiments auto reply server may provide the functionalities of an interactive voice response IVR server and or ringback tone server not shown . In other embodiments auto reply server may communicate with an IVR server and or ringback tone server. An IVR server typically provides automated interactions between a caller using a touch tone telephone e.g. using dual tone multi frequency signaling or DTMF and a computer. Examples of IVR applications include telephone banking telephone voting credit card services and the like.

In some embodiments auto reply server may comprise one or more computing services provisioned from a cloud computing provider for example Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud Amazon EC2 provided by Amazon.com Inc. of Seattle Wash. Sun Cloud Compute Utility provided by Sun Microsystems Inc. of Santa Clara Calif. Windows Azure provided by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. and the like. In some embodiments database may comprise one or more storage services provisioned from a cloud storage provider for example Amazon Simple Storage Service Amazon S3 provided by Amazon.com Inc. of Seattle Wash. Google Cloud Storage provided by Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. and the like.

In various embodiments data network may include the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a cellular data network and or other data network.

In various embodiments content publisher may provide data content to web sites blogs microblogs social networks and the like. For example content publisher may include Facebook provided by Facebook Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. Twitter provided by Twitter Inc. of San Francisco Calif. and the like. In some embodiments auto reply server may provide features similar to those provided by a content publisher .

As used herein the term caller refers to the party making a phone call or similar telephonic communication. The terms callee and callee user are used interchangeably to refer to the party being called by a caller.

In various embodiments caller device and callee device may include landline telephones mobile phones satellite phones tablets laptops desktop PCs or other mobile telephony devices that allow users to make and receive telephonic communications.

In various embodiments calls between caller device and callee device are connected via voice network which transmits voice communications. Voice network may include a public switched telephone network PSTN a cellular network a packet switched network such as the Internet and the like.

In some embodiments voice network includes a PSTN that supports the Signaling System No. 7 SS7 protocols defined by International Telecommunication Union Telecommunication Standardization Sector ITU T . In particular the voice network may support the ISDN User Part ISUP protocol of the SS7 protocols which allows a switch in a PSTN to signal call related information e.g. called calling party number redirecting number etc. to the next switch in the PSTN.

In various embodiments voice network is operated by a carrier which is a provider of telecommunication services to its subscribers. Examples of carrier services may include Verizon Wireless provided mainly by Verizon Communications Inc. of Basking Ridge N.J. AT T Mobility provided by AT T Inc. of DeKalb County Ga. Sprint provided by Sprint Nextel Corporation of Overland Park Kans. T Mobile provided by Deutsche Telecom AG of Bonn Germany and the like.

In various embodiments carrier server is operated by a carrier and connected to voice network . In some embodiments carrier server may comprise one or more replicated and or distributed physical or logical devices. Carrier server may also be connected to data network such as the Internet.

In some embodiments caller device and callee device may be connected to data network via carrier server . In other embodiments caller device and callee device may also be connected to data network directly for example via a Wi Fi connection.

For illustrative purpose carrier server includes devices that handle incoming and outgoing calls for callee device . Thus a call from caller device to callee device goes through carrier server and vice versa.

Call forwarding typically refers to the redirection or forwarding of incoming calls for a callee to a third party. Call forwarding is typically performed by the carrier. In the following discussion the phrases initiating enabling and turning on call forwarding are used interchangeably to refer to the action of causing the carrier to start forwarding incoming calls or other telephonic communications to a third party. And the phrase terminating disabling and turning off call forwarding are similarly used interchangeably to refer to the action of stopping the carrier from forwarding incoming calls or other telephonic communications to a third party.

For illustrative purpose carrier server includes devices that handle requests to turn on and off call forwarding for a subscriber. In some embodiments carrier server may provide an application programming interface API to turn on and off call forwarding for a subscriber. In other embodiments carrier server may provide a dial tone interface to turn on and off call forwarding for a subscriber such as in accordance with the Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD protocol supported by GSM compliant devices via an IVR interface provided by carrier server or the like.

Auto reply server also includes a processing unit a memory and an optional display all interconnected along with the network interface via a bus . The memory generally comprises a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and a permanent mass storage device such as a disk drive. The memory stores program code for an auto reply on off routine see discussed below and a call processing routine see discussed below . In addition the memory also stores an operating system . These software components may be loaded into memory of auto reply server using a drive mechanism not shown associated with a non transient computer readable storage medium such as a floppy disc tape DVD CD ROM drive memory card or the like. In some embodiments software components may alternately be loaded via the network interface rather than via a non transient computer readable storage medium .

In some embodiments a portion of the memory may be used as a cache not shown which temporarily stores data so that future requests for the data can be served faster.

Auto reply server also communicates via bus with database see . In various embodiments bus may comprise a storage area network SAN a high speed serial bus and or via other suitable communication technology. In some embodiments auto reply server may communicate with database via network interface . In other embodiments database may be integrated as part of auto reply server .

Callee device also includes a processing unit a memory one or more audiovisual media sensors e.g. one or more mocrophones cameras or the like and a display interface all interconnected along with the network interface via a bus . The memory generally comprises a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and a permanent mass storage device such as a disk drive flash device or the like. The memory stores program code for an auto reply on off application . In addition the memory also stores an operating system . These software components may be loaded from a computer readable storage medium into memory of the mobile application device using a read mechanism not shown associated with a non transient computer readable storage medium such as a floppy disc tape DVD CD ROM drive memory card or the like. In some embodiments software components may also be loaded via the network interface rather than via a computer readable storage medium .

Beginning the illustrated sequence of operations callee device obtains auto reply data from the callee user. In various embodiments auto reply data includes data associated with one or more auto reply event periods. As used herein an auto reply event period refers to a period of time during which the auto reply service is on. In various embodiments an auto reply event period may have an associated event type such as meeting driving traveling or gym and or an associated time period such as 6 pm 7 pm on Nov. 28 2011.

In some embodiments an auto reply event period may be created by the user of callee device . In some other embodiments an auto reply event period may be pre loaded onto callee device . In yet some other embodiments a user may be able to download an auto reply event period onto callee device e.g. from the Internet. For example a user may download a company meeting event period with pre defined time period.

In some embodiments the user may specify the time period associated with an auto reply event period by setting the start and or end time associated with the auto reply event period. In some other embodiments the system may provide default time settings for an auto reply event period. In yet some other embodiments an auto reply event period may be set to be recurrent. For example one may set up an auto reply event period driving to occur daily between 8 am and 9 am.

In various embodiments each auto reply event period is associated with an auto reply media message. As used herein the term auto reply media message refers to an audio or video recording that is played back to a caller after the callee user activates the associated auto reply event period. In various embodiments an auto reply media message may include an audio or video clip recorded by the user a pre loaded media file on callee device a media file downloaded from the Internet such as a media file in .wav .mp3 .mp4 or .avi format and the like. For example the auto reply media message may include the following message recorded by the callee user.

Still referring to callee device sends a request to auto reply server to initiate the auto reply service. In various embodiments the request to initiate auto reply service may include some or all of the auto reply data obtained at . In particular request to initiate auto reply service may include an indication of the current auto reply event period. The indication of the current auto reply event period may include the current auto reply event type a number or the like. For example the request to initiate auto reply service may include data such as the following.

In another embodiment the request to initiate auto reply service may include data such as the following.

In some embodiments callee device may send auto reply data to auto reply server before sending request to initiate auto reply service for subsequent use by auto reply server .

In some embodiments an auto reply event period may start due to the occurrence of some pre defined events such as the reaching of the start time associated with the current auto reply event. In other embodiments an auto reply event period may start in response to some user actions such as a user activating a control e.g. an Activate auto reply button link or similar control the changing of the geographic location of the user and the like.

Upon receiving request to initiate auto reply service auto reply server updates the auto reply data associated with the callee user. In some embodiments the auto reply data may be stored in a storage device e.g. memory or database that is connected to auto reply server locally or remotely. In other embodiments the auto reply data may be stored by a cloud storage service provider.

In various embodiments updating auto reply data may include updating the current auto reply event period associated with the callee user updating the time period associated with the current auto reply event period storing additional auto reply event periods associated with the callee user and the like.

CALLEE ID and CURRENT EVT TYPE may be used to look up information e.g. media message end time about the current event period associated with a callee in the auto reply event periods table. An auto reply event periods table e.g. and stores auto reply event period data associated with a user. The EVT TYPE MESSAGE START TIME and END TIME columns store the event type name or path to media message start time and end time associated with an auto reply event period. For example tables and illustrate the auto reply event period data associated with the callee users with callee IDs 111 111 1111 and 222 222 2222 respectively.

In some embodiments auto reply users table and auto reply event periods tables and may be part of the same table. In other embodiments there may be more tables than what is illustrated. In some embodiments there may be more or fewer columns in the tables than what is illustrated.

Referring back to auto reply server sends a request to initiate call forwarding to carrier server . In some embodiments auto reply server may use an API provided by carrier server to initiate call forwarding. In other embodiments auto reply server may use a dial tone interface provided by carrier server to initiate call forwarding such as via an IVR interface provided by carrier server .

In various embodiments request to initiate call forwarding includes the phone number of the callee user and the forwarding phone number i.e. the phone number to redirect the incoming calls to . The forwarding phone number is typically associated with auto reply server and or with an IVR feature not shown associated with auto reply server .

In response to the request to initiate call forwarding carrier server initiates call forwarding for callee such that subsequent calls to the callee user are forwarded to auto reply server . For example when a caller makes a call to the callee user carrier server forwards the call to auto reply server .

Auto reply server obtains the auto reply media message associated with the current auto reply event period for the callee user for example by querying database with the callee user s telephone number. Auto reply server then provides the auto reply media message to the caller. See discussion of for more details.

Subsequently auto reply server determines that the current auto reply event period has expired. In some embodiments an auto reply event period may expire due to the occurrence of a pre defined event such as the reaching of the end time associated with the current auto reply event. In other embodiments an auto reply event period may expire in response to a user actions such as a user activating a control e.g. an End auto reply button link or similar control the changing of the geographic location of the user and the like.

After determining the expiration of the current auto reply event period auto reply server sends a request to terminate call forwarding to carrier server . In some embodiments auto reply server may use an API provided by carrier server to terminate call forwarding. In other embodiments auto reply server may use a dial tone interface provided by carrier server to terminate call forwarding such as in accordance with the USSD protocol or via an IVR interface provided by carrier server . In various embodiments request to terminate call forwarding includes the phone number of the callee user.

In response to request to terminate call forwarding carrier server turns off call forwarding for the callee user such that subsequent calls to the callee user such as are routed directly to the callee user.

Screenshot B shows a user interface of the application after the user selects an auto reply event type e.g. Meeting allowing the user to specify the time period associated with the event type. For example the user may set a timer . The user interface may allow the user to set additional settings associated with the auto reply event period such as whether to have a time limit associated with the auto reply event whether to use a default time setting for the auto reply event period and the like.

Screenshot C shows a user interface of the application displaying the currently selected auto reply event period e.g. Meeting . Referring back to in block routine obtains the auto reply media message associated with the current auto reply event period. Typically auto reply server obtains auto reply data including the auto reply media message associated with the current auto reply event period from callee device .

Referring back to in block routine updates the auto reply data associated with the callee user. As discussed above updating auto reply data may include updating the current auto reply event period updating the time period associated with the current auto reply event period storing additional auto reply event periods associated with the callee user and the like. In some embodiments routine may skip block and proceed directly to block .

In block routine initiates call forwarding for the callee user. In some embodiments routine may sent a request to initiate call forwarding for the callee user via an API provided by carrier server . In other embodiments routine may sent a request to initiate call forwarding for the callee user via a dial tone interface provided by carrier server such as the USSD protocol or an IVR interface. In various embodiments routine provides carrier server with the callee user s phone number and the phone number assigned to auto reply server .

In some embodiments routine may send a request to initiate call forwarding for the callee user due to the occurrence of some pre defined event such as the reaching of the start time associated with the current auto reply event. In other embodiments routine may sent a request to initiate call forwarding for the callee user in response to a request sent from callee device such as a request to initiate auto reply an indication of the changing of the geographic location of the user and the like.

In block routine determines whether to publish a media message such as a voice status . In various embodiments auto reply server may allow users to post media messages to web sites blogs social networks and the like. For example a user may post an audio or video clip to his her Facebook or Twitter account as an indication of his her current status or mood. If not then routine skips to block .

However if routine determines that a media message should be published then in block routine provides the media message for publication. In some embodiments the media message may be an existing auto reply media message. In some other embodiments the media message may be a media message other than an auto reply media message. In various embodiments auto reply server may allow users to post other information e.g. texts and photos along with the media message.

In various embodiments auto reply server may obtain data related to media message publication from callee device including the user s preference e.g. what websites to post to as well as the information to publish e.g. media message text photos . In various embodiments auto reply server may provide the data to one or more content publishers such as Facebook Twitter and the like.

In various embodiments auto reply server may allow a user to follow the posted media messages such as the voice status recordings of selected people. For example the user may follow the posted media messages of other auto reply service users including Facebook Twitter friends celebrities and the like.

Screenshot B shows a user interface of the application allowing the user to select the source of people to add. For example the user interface may allow the user to select other auto reply service users from the user s contact list phone book . The application may display only those contacts who are also auto reply service users for example by looking up their phone numbers at auto reply server .

The user interface may also allow the user to select Facebook friends and or Twitter friends who are also auto reply service users. In various embodiments a user provides Facebook Twitter account information to auto reply server for example when he she posts media messages to Facebook Twitter or when he she signs up for the auto reply service. Auto reply server may then retrieve the Facebook Twitter friends lists with the provided account information and display only those friends on the lists who are also auto reply service users. In various embodiments auto reply server may determine that a Facebook Twitter friend is also an auto reply service user by comparing the Facebook Twitter account information of that friend e.g. email address phone number Facebook Twitter user name with the auto reply service users information.

The user interface may also allow the user to search for names of or suggest other auto reply service users to the user. Screenshot C shows a user interface of the application displaying the user s Facebook friends. The user interface allows the user to select a person to follow by checking a checkbox next to the person s name e.g. John Doe . The user interface may also display an indication such as Following tag next to the name of a person who is already being followed by the user. Screenshot D shows a user interface of the application displaying the newly added person to follow.

In some embodiments auto reply server may push a user s media message to the followers of that user. For example auto reply server may send updates e.g. latest voice status to the devices of the followers of the user. In other embodiments an application running on a follower s device may pull updates e.g. latest voice statuses of the people that the user follows from auto reply server . Such pushing or pulling may be performed in real time or on a periodic basis.

Referring back to in block routine determines that auto reply event period has expired. As described above routine may determine expiration of an auto reply event period in response to the occurrence of a pre defined event such as the reaching of the end time associated with the current auto reply event in response to a user action such as a user activating a control e.g. an End auto reply button link or similar control or the like.

In block routine terminates call forwarding for the callee user. In some embodiments routine may sent a request to terminate call forwarding for the callee user in accordance with an API provided by carrier server . In other embodiments routine may sent a request to terminate call forwarding for the callee user in accordance with a dial tone interface provided by carrier server such as in accordance with the USSD protocol or via an IVR interface. In various embodiments routine provides carrier server with the callee user s phone number.

In block routine obtains the current auto reply event period for the callee user. In some embodiments routine may look up a data structure similar to auto reply users table of to find the current auto reply event period associated with the callee ID.

In block routine obtains the auto reply media message associated with the current auto reply event period for the callee user. In some embodiments routine may look up a data structure similar auto reply event periods table of to obtain the name or path of the associated media message. Routine may then retrieve the media message file using the name or path which may be stored in a compressed format e.g. a .zip file .

Using as an example suppose auto reply server receives a forwarded call for a callee with the phone number 111 111 1111. Routine would obtain the current auto reply event type for the callee user Meeting by looking up auto reply users table . Then routine would obtain the name or path of the media message Meeting msg1.wav associated with auto reply event period by looking up the auto reply event periods table . Finally routine may retrieve the actual media message file by following the path to the media message. In some embodiments media messages may be stored in a storage device e.g. memory or database that is connected to auto reply server locally or remotely. In other embodiments they may be stored by a cloud storage service provider.

Referring back to in block routine provides the auto reply media message associated with the current auto reply event period to the caller. In some embodiments routine plays back the media message to the caller. In some other embodiments routine may process the auto reply media message prior to providing it to the caller. For example routine may decompress a compressed auto reply media message.

As another example routine may generate a synthesized media message based on a set of parameters such as the user s location the auto reply event type the auto reply time period and or a user recorded media message. For example user may provide a media message with placeholders such as the following.

An auto reply media message may be generated by filling the first blank based on the auto reply event type e.g. meeting associated with the auto reply event period and the second blank based on the end time of the associated auto reply time period e.g. 7 pm . The resulting auto reply media message that is played back to the caller may be the following.

Routine ends in block . In some embodiments auto reply server may allow a caller to leave a message for a callee user. Further auto reply server may provide the callee user with a list of missed calls and messages when the auto reply service is on.

In some embodiments auto reply server may allow the callee user to specify a list of phone numbers such that the caller gets notified e.g. via text message when a caller with a listed phone number calls when the auto reply service is on.

Beginning the illustrated sequence of operations callee device obtains auto reply data from the callee user. shows screenshots of user interfaces that may be used by an exemplary application running on callee device obtaining auto reply data from the user. The auto reply data obtained is similar to that obtained at of .

Subsequently callee device provides auto rely data to auto reply server . Upon receiving the auto reply data auto reply server may update the auto reply data associated with the callee user for example by updating the current auto reply event period adding additional auto reply event periods and the like.

An application running on callee device initiates auto reply by sending a request to initiate call forwarding to carrier server . In some embodiments the application may use an API provided by carrier server to initiate call forwarding. In other embodiments the application may use a dial tone interface provided by carrier server to initiate call forwarding such as in accordance with the USSD protocol or via an IVR interface.

In various embodiments request to initiate call forwarding includes the phone number of the callee user and the forwarding phone number i.e. the phone number to redirect the incoming calls to . The forwarding phone number is typically associated with auto reply server and or with an IVR feature not shown associated with auto reply server . For example a user with a GSM compliant device e.g. an AT T user may dial the USSD code 218001112222 to turn on call forwarding to the phone number 8001112222. As another example a user with a non GSM device e.g. a Verizon user may dial 728001112222 to turn on call forwarding to the same phone number via an IVR interface provided by the carrier.

In various embodiments an application running on callee device automatically sends request to initiate call forwarding to carrier server . For example the application may automatically dial the USSD code or IVR code for turning on call forwarding.

In various embodiments an application running on callee device may send request to initiate call forwarding to carrier server in response to a user action e.g. the user s activating an Activate auto reply button link or similar control a notification sent by auto reply server the occurrence of a pre defined event e.g. the reaching of the start time of an auto reply event period or the like.

Upon receiving request to initiate call forwarding carrier server initiates call forwarding for callee such that subsequent calls to the callee user are forwarded to auto reply server . For example when a caller makes a call to the callee user carrier server forwards the call to auto reply server .

When auto reply server receives forwarded call to callee it obtain the auto reply media message associated with the current auto reply event period for the callee user and provides the auto reply media message to the caller in a manner similar to that described in .

In some embodiments an application may determine that the current auto reply event period has expired due to the occurrence of a pre defined event such as the reaching of the end time associated with the current auto reply event. In some other embodiments the application may determine that the current auto reply event period has expired in response to a user action e.g. the user s activating a control e.g. an End auto reply button link or similar control the user s changing his geographic location or the like. In yet some other embodiments the application may determine that the current auto reply event period has expired in response to a notification sent by auto reply server another device or the like.

In various embodiments an application running on callee device terminates auto reply by sending a request to terminate call forwarding to carrier server . In some embodiments the application may use an API provided by carrier server to terminate call forwarding. In other embodiments the application may use a dial tone interface provided by carrier server to terminate call forwarding such as in accordance with the USSD protocol or via an IVR interface. For example a user with a GSM compliant device e.g. an AT T user may dial the USSD code 21 to turn off call forwarding. As another example a user with a non GSM device e.g. a Verizon user may dial 720 to turn off call forwarding via an IVR interface provided by the carrier.

In various embodiments an application running on callee device automatically sends request to terminate call forwarding to carrier server . For example the application may automatically dial the USSD code or IVR code for turning off call forwarding.

In various embodiments an application running on callee device may send request to terminate call forwarding to carrier server in response to a user action e.g. the user s activating an End auto reply button link or similar control a notification sent by auto reply server the occurrence of a pre defined event e.g. the reaching of the end time of an auto reply event period or the like.

In response to the request to terminate call forwarding carrier server may turn off call forwarding for the callee user such that subsequent calls to the callee user such as are routed directly to the callee user.

If callee device is powered off or out of range when the current auto reply event period expires callee device may be unable to terminate call forwarding and callers may continue to hear an auto reply media message when they call the callee user. To reduce the risk of such errors callee device may implement an application to determine after callee device is powered up or regains reception whether any auto reply event period has expired during that time. If so the application sends a request to carrier server to turn off call forwarding for the callee user.

In block routine obtains the auto reply media message associated with current auto reply event period. illustrates screenshots showing user interfaces that may be used by an exemplary application allowing a user to record an audio recording and associate it with an auto reply event period in accordance with one embodiment. illustrates screenshots showing user interfaces that may be used by an exemplary application allowing a user to shop for a media message and associate it with an auto reply event period in accordance with one embodiment.

In block routine provides the auto reply data associated with the callee user to auto reply server . In block routine initiates call forwarding for the callee user. As described in routine may initiate call forwarding by relying on an API or a dial tone interface such as in accordance with the USSD protocol via an IVR interface provided by carrier server .

In block routine determines whether to publish a media message such as a voice status to web sites blogs social networks and the like. If not then routine skips to block .

If routine determines that a media message should be published then in block routine provides the media message for publication. In various embodiments routine obtains data including the user s preference e.g. where to post the information to post publish e.g. media message text photos etc. and the like. See discussion of block of and .

Routine may push media messages onto client device or client device may pull media messages from auto reply server see discussion of block of .

In block routine determines that the current auto reply event period has expired see discussed of item of . In block routine terminates call forwarding for the callee user. As described in routine may terminate call forwarding by relying on an API or a dial tone interface such as in accordance with the USSD protocol or via an IVR interface provided by carrier server .

As described above to reduce the risk of missing turning off call forwarding while powered off or out of range routine may determine after callee device is powered up or regains reception whether any auto reply event period has expired during that time. If so routine may send a request to carrier server to turn off call forwarding for the callee user.

Routine ends in block . Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that alternate and or equivalent implementations may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein.

Beginning the illustrated series of communications callee device receives an indication from its operator to enable an event specific custom recorded auto reply service provided by auto reply server .

In response to the indication callee device sends to carrier server a request to enable conditional call forwarding such that telephonic communications placed to callee device will be forwarded to auto reply server when a forwarding condition e.g. no answer busy on another call user declines call is met. In some embodiments callee device may enable conditional call forwarding by automatically or manually using a dial tone interface in accordance with the Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD protocol supported by GSM compliant devices.

For example in one embodiment callee device may dial a USSD number such as 718001112222 where 8001112222 is used herein to represent an identifier of auto reply server to enable conditional call forwarding when a no answer condition is met. In another embodiment callee device may dial a USSD number such as 288001112222 to enable conditional call forwarding when a busy or no answer condition is met. In other embodiments callee device may dial a USSD number such as 004 8001112222 to enable conditional call forwarding when a busy no answer or out of reach condition is met.

Carrier server then enables conditional call forwarding as requested. Also in response to the indication callee device sends to auto reply server a request to provide event specific audiovisual media messages to callers whose pending calls are forwarded to auto reply server . As the term is used herein an audiovisual media message refers to an audio message and or a video message.

Upon receiving request auto reply server enables the requested event schedule based auto reply messaging service. Callee device obtains metadata from the user. For example in one embodiment callee device may obtain calendar data event and or event type start and stop dates and or times or other similar metadata describing specific events and or types of event during which the operator wishes to have event specific custom recorded audiovisual media messages played to callers.

Callee device also records a plurality of event specific custom recorded audiovisual media message or microphone or other suitable audiovisual media sensor. Callee device sends to auto reply server the metadata and event specific custom recorded audiovisual media messages that it obtained as described above. Auto reply server stores metadata and event specific custom recorded audiovisual media messages for subsequent use as described below.

At some point after the above described communications have taken place caller device places a pending telephonic communication to callee device sending through carrier server a request to initiate communications with callee device .

A software process typically provided as part of the auto reply service executing on callee device detects the pending telephonic communication request and determines whether at least one of the specific events and or types of event is currently active e.g. by comparing the current date and or time with metadata . In the illustrated exemplary scenario callee device determines that the current date and or time corresponds to at least one of the specific events and or types of event which causes the software process to automatically ignore the pending incoming call. For example in one embodiment the software process may prevent callee device from ringing buzzing or otherwise notifying the operator that request was received.

Having prevented callee device from notifying its operator of the incoming telephonic communication the software process sends to carrier server an indication that a conditional call forwarding condition is satisfied. For example in one embodiment callee device may indicate to carrier server that callee device is busy on another call notwithstanding that callee device may not actually be on another call that the user has declined the call notwithstanding that the user was not notified of the incoming telephonic communication or the like.

Having received indication indicating that a conditional call forwarding condition is satisfied carrier server identifies auto reply server as the forwarding destination for calls placed to callee device and sends to auto reply server a request to handle a forwarded call from caller device that was originally destined for callee device .

Using metadata auto reply server determines whether at least one of the specific events and or types of event is currently active e.g. by comparing the current date and or time with metadata . In the illustrated exemplary scenario auto reply server determines that the current date and or time corresponds to at least one of the specific events and or types of event which causes auto reply server to select a currently appropriate one of the event specific custom recorded audiovisual media messages as having been custom recorded for the currently active specific event and or type of event which corresponds to the current date and or time .

Auto reply server accepts the communication request from caller device sending suitable messages to and or through carrier server and or caller device in order to establish telephonic communication with caller device . Having established the telephonic communication auto reply server sends to caller device the selected currently appropriate audiovisual media message.

Beginning the illustrated series of communications callee device receives an indication from its operator to enable an event specific custom recorded auto reply service provided by auto reply server .

In response to the indication callee device sends to carrier server a request that ringback tones for telephonic communications placed to callee device will be provided by auto reply server .

Carrier server then registers auto reply server as the ringback tone provider for callee device . Also in response to the indication callee device sends to auto reply server a request to provide event specific audiovisual media messages to callers as ringback tones.

Upon receiving request auto reply server enables the requested event schedule based auto reply ringback tone messaging service. Callee device obtains metadata from the user. For example in one embodiment callee device may obtain calendar data event and or event type start and stop dates and or times or other similar metadata describing specific events and or types of event during which the operator wishes to have event specific custom recorded audiovisual media messages played to callers.

Callee device also records a plurality of event specific custom recorded audiovisual media message or microphone or other suitable audiovisual media sensor. Callee device sends to auto reply server the metadata and event specific custom recorded audiovisual media messages that it obtained as described above. Auto reply server stores metadata and event specific custom recorded audiovisual media messages for subsequent use as described below.

At some point after the above described communications have taken place caller device places a pending telephonic communication to callee device sending through carrier server a request to initiate communications with callee device .

Carrier server identifies auto reply server as being the ringback tone provider for telephonic communications placed to callee device . Carrier server therefore sends to auto reply server a request to provide a ringback tone for a call placed by caller device to callee device .

Using metadata auto reply server determines whether at least one of the specific events and or types of event is currently active e.g. by comparing the current date and or time with metadata . In the illustrated exemplary scenario auto reply server determines that the current date and or time corresponds to at least one of the specific events and or types of event which causes auto reply server to select a currently appropriate one of the event specific custom recorded audiovisual media messages as having been custom recorded for the currently active specific event and or type of event which corresponds to the current date and or time .

Auto reply server sends to caller device the selected currently appropriate audiovisual media message to be played as a ringback tone on caller device .

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that alternate and or equivalent implementations may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example in some embodiments in addition to being selected based on an event schedule event specific custom recorded audiovisual media messages may also be provided based on the identity of the caller. For example in one embodiment one or more custom recorded audiovisual media messages may be associated not only with a specific event and or type of event but also with a set including one or more particular callers such that two different callers who call during the same specific event and or type of event period may receive different event specific custom recorded audiovisual media messages. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein.

