---

title: Keyword filter
abstract: A system and method for filtering keywords. The method may include receiving a first set of keywords. The method may include determining a first set of numbers associated with a first metric relating to the first set of keywords and a second set of numbers associated with a second metric relating to the first set of keywords. The method may include receiving at least one metric rule relating to the first and the second metric. The method may include determining a respective combination number for each keyword in the first set of keywords based on the first set of numbers, the second set of numbers, and the metric rule. The method may include filtering the first set of keywords based on the respective combination numbers to produce a second set of keywords.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583681&OS=08583681&RS=08583681
owner: Conductor, Inc.
number: 08583681
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120719
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 12 956 410 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 239 405 filed Nov. 30 2010 entitled KEYWORD FILTER the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Referring to the World Wide Web WWW is a distributed database including literally trillions of pages accessible through the Internet. Searching and indexing these pages to produce useful results in response to user queries is constantly a challenge. A search engine is typically used to search the WWW.

A typical prior art search engine is shown in . Pages from the Internet or other source are accessed through the use of a crawler . Crawler aggregates pages from source to ensure that these pages are searchable. Many algorithms exist for crawlers and in most cases these crawlers follow links in known hypertext documents to obtain other documents. The pages retrieved by crawler are stored in a database . Thereafter these pages are indexed by an indexer . Indexer builds a searchable index of the pages in a database . For example each web page may be broken down into words and respective locations of each word on the page. The pages are then indexed by the words and their respective locations.

In use a user uses a processor to send a search query to a dispatcher . Dispatcher compiles a list of search nodes in cluster to execute the query and forwards the query to those selected search nodes. The search nodes in search node cluster search respective parts of the index and return search results along with a document identifier to dispatcher . Dispatcher merges the received results to produce a final result set displayed to user sorted by ranking scores based on a ranking function. This disclosure describes an improvement over these prior art technologies.

One embodiment of the invention is a method for filtering keywords. The method may include receiving by a processor a first set of keywords and determining by the processor a first set of numbers associated with a first metric relating to the first set of keywords. The method may include determining by the processor a second set of numbers associated with a second metric relating to the first set of keywords and receiving by the processor at least one metric rule relating to the first and the second metric. The method may include determining by the processor a respective combination number for each keyword in the first set of keywords based on the first set of numbers the second set of numbers and the metric rule and filtering by the processor the first set of keywords based on the respective combination numbers to produce a second set of keywords.

Another embodiment of the invention is a system for filtering keywords. The system may include a memory and a processor in communication with the memory. The processor may be effective to receive a first set of keywords and determine a first set of numbers associated with a first metric relating to the first set of keywords. The processor may be effective to determine a second set of numbers associated with a second metric relating to the first set of keywords and receive at least one metric rule relating to the first and the second metric. The processor may be effective to determine a respective combination number for each keyword in the first set of keywords based on the first set of numbers the second set of numbers and the metric rule and filter the first set of keywords based on the respective combination numbers to produce a second set of keywords.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method for filtering keywords. The method may include sending by a first processor a first set of keywords over a network and receiving by a second processor the first set of keywords. The method may include determining by the second processor a first set of numbers associated with a first metric relating to the first set of keywords and determining by the second processor a second set of numbers associated with a second metric relating to the first set of keywords. The method may include sending the first and second set of numbers and the first set of keywords from the second processor to the first processor and sending from the first processor to the second processor at least one metric rule including respective weights assigned to the first and the second metric. The method may include receiving by the second processor the at least one metric rule and determining by the second processor a respective combination number for each keyword in the first set of keywords based on the first set of numbers the second set of numbers and the metric rule. The method may include sending from the first processor to the second processor a filter request wherein the filter request relates to filtering the first set of keywords based on the numbers associated with the metrics and filtering by the second processor the first set of keywords based on the respective combination numbers and the filter request to produce a second set of keywords. The method may include sending the second set of keywords from the second processor to the first processor.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part thereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context indicates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and as illustrated in the accompanying figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and or designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

Referring to there is shown a system in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. As shown a user may use a processor to send a set of keywords and or a URL uniform resource locator to a processor . Each keyword could be for example one or more characters symbols operators and or words. User may also send metric rules to processor as is explained in more detail below. Processor receives set of keywords and or URL and generates a filtered set of keywords . Filtered set of keywords may include keywords that user may wish to track for his business. Filtered set of keywords may be displayed to user on a display . Processor may be in communication with user and display over a network such as the Internet network. Processor may further be in communication with a memory including instructions .

Set of keywords could include for example keywords relevant to a business and or web site owned by user . URL may include a URL relating to a web site owned by user and or a URL relating to a web site owned by a competitor of user . For example processor may scrape a web site located at an address corresponding to URL to generate expanded set of keywords . For example the scraping could include looking at tags content keyword density etc.

Processor may receive set of keywords and or URL and determine an expanded set of keywords . Processor may also send set of keywords and or URL over network to another processor in communication with a database to determine expanded set of keywords . Processor may be for example a processor associated with GOOGLE ADWORDS COREMETRICS OMNITURE or another service effective to receive set of keywords and generate additional keywords for expanded set of keywords . For example processor may look at query logs perform query term expansion to include modifiers perform synonym expansion content extraction etc. Similarly processor could be a processor associated with a service like SPYFU or another related service effective to receive URL and generate additional keywords for expanded set of keywords . Expanded set of keywords may be a combination of set of keywords and additional keywords generated by processor and or processor .

Processor may send a query with expanded set of keywords to one or more additional processors in communication with a database . The one or more additional processor s may be able to determine metric data relating to expanded set of keywords . For example processor may be controlled by user in situations where user provides metric data . User may for example be able to provide data relating to a metric volume for keywords in expanded set of keywords .

For example metric data may include numbers associated with metrics relating to set of keywords . For example the metrics may include volume such as a monthly search volume for a keyword value such as a value attributed to the keyword by GOOGLE ADWORDS or based on other analytics metrics or rank such as a rank of URL in a result set for each keyword in expanded set of keywords across one or more search engines . The metrics in metric data could include popularity such as the popularity of a keyword in social media like FACEBOOK or TWITTER. For example the metrics could include hot trends in TWITTER indicative of an aggregate volume of a trend in TWITTER trend analysis on a tweet stream a lexicon in FACEBOOK relating to terms on wall posts etc. In an example additional processor could include a GOOGLE application programming interface API relating to monthly search volume. In the example metric data determined by processor may include the monthly search volume for each keyword in expanded set of keywords .

Expanded set of keywords may be sorted by processor based on metrics relating to expanded set of keywords to produce sorted expanded set of keywords . Sorted expanded set of keywords may also be sent to display over network and may include metric data . For example sorted expanded set of keywords may be displayed on display in columns corresponding to metric data such as in an EXCEL spreadsheet as shown in the example below. In each column keywords may be sorted based on the particular metric such as sorted by numbers associated with the metrics value rank volume etc. In this way user can easily see a keyword or keywords in sorted expanded set of keywords that has the highest number associated with any particular metric. For example user can easily see which keyword has the highest number associated with the metric value or volume . In the example below keyword Abc had the highest number associated with the metric value and with the metric rank .

User may use processor to send metric rules to processor . Processor may use metric rules to generate a combination number associated with a combined metric for each keyword in expanded set keywords based on metric data . Similarly processor may generate and assign metric rules for particular types of users as is explained in more detail below.

User may use metric rules to generate a user defined combination metric including metrics important to user . For example user may use metric rules to filter sorted expanded set of keywords based on metrics important to user . User may assign a weight or percentage value to at least some of the metrics whose data is included in metric data . For example user may indicate in metric rules that the metric value should be assigned a 50 weight the metric volume should be assigned a 25 weight and the metric rank should be assigned a 25 weight. User may provide this information through a user interface such as a slider where user can slide among discrete values from 0 to 100 reflecting weights of 0 to 100 .

Processor may assign scores for keywords based on the numbers associated with the respective metrics in metric data . In an example of sorted expanded keywords keywords Abc Xyz Jfk etc. along with metrics value rank volume and a user defined combination metric are shown below. In the example keyword Abc has the highest number associated with the metric value and so processor may assign keyword Abc the highest score for metric value in this example a score of 10 is the highest score assigned. Keyword Xyz has the second highest number associated with the metric value and so keyword Xyz is assigned a score of 9 for the metric value . Similarly keyword Xyz has the highest number associated with the metric volume and so keyword Xyz is assigned the highest score for the metric volume . In an example each keyword may each be assigned a distinct score. In another example groups of keywords may be assigned the same score. For example the 3 keywords with the highest number associated with a metric may all receive a score of 10 the 3 keywords with the next highest numbers associated with a metric may all receive a score of 9 etc.

Metric rules allow user and or processor to define weights to be applied to the scores to produce a user defined combination metric relating to the keywords. In the example referenced above user may select weights indicating 50 for the value metric 25 for the rank metric and 25 for the volume metric in metric rules . In the example the user defined combination metric for each keyword would be the result of weighing the score for the value metric by 50 plus weighing the score for the rank metric by 25 plus weighing the score of the volume metric by 25 . In the example the number associated with the user defined combination metric for the keyword Abc may be 0.5 10 0.25 10 0.25 9 . The user defined combination metric in sorted expanded keywords may sort all of the keywords in expanded set of keywords based on numbers associated with the user defined combination metric. Sorted expanded set of keywords allows user to easily see which keywords have the highest number associated with weighted metrics defined by user and or processor . After user or processor defines metric rules when the data underlying each of the metrics changes e.g. a rank for a keyword changes metric data and the user defined combination metric for each keyword may similarly change. Sorted expanded set of keywords may be updated accordingly.

In some examples if user wishes to select a metric rule for a metric for which system has not received data processor may make the applicable user interface for that metric unavailable. For example if user wishes to select a weight for the metric volume and no metric data is available for volume processor may make unavailable or gray out a slider relating to volume . Alternatively if user wishes to select a metric rule for a metric for which system has not received data processor may assign an arbitrary score such as a lowest score for the metric for the related keyword.

Metric rules may include a set of demographics of customers for user . For example user may desire to know keywords that are important to his particular customers. In these examples processor may include a service like COMSCORE where keywords relating to the demographics in metric rules may be generated and added to set of keywords to produce expanded set of keywords . Additionally processor may provide a weight for expanded set keywords relating to input demographics. For example certain keywords that are more relevant to a target demographic may receive a higher weight. In an example the term auto may receive a higher weight than the term automobile for a demographic of males between 35 and 50 years old.

Processor may define preset weights for metric rules . For example processor may define a retailer composite metric and associated weights or percentages for each metric relating to a retailer . For example a retailer composite metric may include a 50 weight for the metric value a 25 weight for the rank metric etc. User can similarly define certain custom preset composite metrics with associated weights. For example user may define a Preset with a set of defined weights for metrics and a Preset with a distinct set of defined weights for the metrics.

User may request that processor filter sorted expanded set of keywords based on a filter request . For example filter request may indicate that user would like to see keywords in sorted expanded set of keywords where the metric value is above a defined number or where the user defined combination metric is above a defined number. In response to filter request processor generates and sends narrowed set of keywords to display . Filter request may be processed by processor at desired intervals so that filtered set of keywords may be periodically updated.

User can thus easily monitor metrics relating to keywords and switch among distinct marketing strategies and campaigns in response to numbers associated with the metrics. Metric rules allow user to define a combination metric reflecting weights of metrics that are important to the user. In this way user may receive filtered set of keywords effectively identifying keywords that may be more important to user than other keywords in set of keywords . Filtered set of keywords may be updated at desired intervals by processor as metric data changes.

Among other benefits using a system in accordance with this disclosure a user can more easily identify which keywords should receive marketing research focus. The user can create a customized scoring model to filter a set of keywords. Prior art techniques tend to be more suited to generating increasing numbers of keywords to monitor. Such voluminous keywords frequently totaling over 10 000 in number are very difficult to monitor and manage.

Referring to there is shown a process which could be performed in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The process could be performed using for example system discussed above.

As show at step S a processor may receive a first set of keywords. The first set of keywords could be a list of keywords of interest to a user and may include a URL. At step S the processor may determine a first set of numbers associated with a first metric relating to the first set of keywords. For example the processor may determine numbers associated with metrics for each of the keywords in the first set of keywords. Similarly at step S the processor may determine a second set of numbers associated with a second metric relating to the first set of keywords.

At step S the processor may receive at least one metric rule relating to the first and the second metric. For example the metric rule may be a set of weights assigned by a user for each of the metrics indicating which of the metrics are more of interest to the user. At step S the processor may determine a respective combination number for each keyword in the first set of keywords based on the first set of numbers the second set of numbers and the metric rule. For example the processor may determine a combination number for each keywords based on the numbers associated with the metrics and the weights assigned by the user. At step S the processor may filter the first set of keywords based on the respective combination numbers to produce a second set of keywords.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

