---

title: Method and system for tracking RFID tags for use in advertising and marketing
abstract: The current invention is a method and system for tracking an RFID tag within a defined 3D space and can be used to identify objects within a live performance and create hotspots with respect to the objects, which allows viewers the ability to select objects that are associated with one of the hotspots, and transmits their interest in the selected object to one or more users. Preferably, the system operates such that hotspots can be created for previously created video, newly created video media, as well as live broadcasts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08952791&OS=08952791&RS=08952791
owner: 
number: 08952791
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120228
---
The present application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application having Ser. No. 61 464 126 filed Feb. 28 2011 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and U.S. patent application having Ser. No. 13 136 423 filed Aug. 1 2011 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to a method and system for tracking RFID tags and more particularly to a method and system for tracking RFID tags in three dimensional 3D space such as for use in advertising and marketing.

Video advertising and marketing systems using video media that provide a collaborative process in which users such as advertisers can incorporate material such as advertisements information documents and other such items hereinafter referred collectively as information can be placed in various video media preferably digital video media and whereby viewers can communicate with users concerning the information are known.

Audiences today are often confronted with a daily surplus of social information that competes for an individual s attention in almost every aspect of their work recreation and social lives. A popular form of advertising on large private or public networks such as the Internet is through the use of video files that provide short digital video transmissions known as streaming. Individuals also generally frequently view web sites to obtain information such as news weather information entertainment information broadcast information much of which is communicated using digital video files. Such individuals also utilize other various video media for obtaining information and communicating with other viewers. Thus because such media provides access to a large population businesses seek and use such media to advertise their products and services.

Use of advertising in such video media has increased significantly in recent years with the advent of new telecommunication means including cell phones texting TWITTER and the Internet. Such telecommunication means have been successful in connecting large numbers of people through various means that include online bulletin boards Email Tweeting and online instant messaging. Accordingly a single video media is often shared among a great number of people.

An assortment of such video media that is frequently viewed or downloaded contain hotspots certain defined clickable areas in a digital video media that have been embedded or incorporated within the video media. Such hotspots include defined areas that are typically associated with an image shown in the video media such that when the viewer clicks on an area incorporating the hotspot a certain action results. This action may include establishing communication with a user such as an advertiser by use of a hyperlink to an advertiser s web site or may present information directly on the viewing display relating to the image. One problem with use of conventional hotspots is that each hotspot corresponding to an object must be placed within the video media prior to viewing by the public. Further an object traveling through a defined three dimensional 3D space such as in a live broadcast must be tracked in order to attach a hotspot to such an object. Accordingly current systems incorporating hotspots in video media typically cannot be used to incorporate or embed hotspots in live video broadcasts such as a live television or sports broadcast.

One system that has been developed for tracking objects is by use of RFID Radio Frequency Identification tag systems. Such systems are typically described as being passive such that they operate without a battery or other such power source but instead draw power from the electric field emitted from RFID receivers or transmitter readers being active such that they operate using power such as by way of a battery or being battery assisted passive BAP such that the tag has a small battery on board that is activated when in the presence of a RFID reader. Since passive RFID tags do not have their own power source when they are not within the effective range of the transmitter and reader reader they are nonfunctional. When they come within the effective range of the reader they are able to transmit their unique ID to the reader. However the reader typically has no ability to determine the distance or orientation that the RFID tag is from the reader. Unfortunately active tags are generally significantly more expensive than passive tags and are undesirable or cost prohibited for use in many application.

Objects having RFID tags either passive BAP or active tags have been tracked using antenna arrays. Such arrays typically have a plurality of orthogonally oriented antennas electronically coupled to an RFID reader and are operated such that readings from each antenna are read separately. Such systems ensure that an RFID tag can be read no matter what orientation the tag may be in and can confirm that an object is within a 3D space. However such systems are unable to determine the particular position or location of the object within the 3D space and cannot tack the object with the RFID tag in real time as the object travels within the 3D space. Accordingly such systems cannot be effectively used for creating hot spots for objects used in live performances or for objects traveling through a defined 3D space.

Accordingly what is needed is an interactive advertising and marketing system for video media that provides a system and method in which users such as advertisers can identify objects within a 3D space such as during a live broadcast and track the movement of the object within the 3D space thereby allowing users to create hotspots for objects within the video media and which allows viewers to select such hotspots for communicating with and interacting with users.

Preferably the method and system allows users such as advertisers to place RFID tags of various objects located within a 3D space and allows such RFID tags to be tracked in real time as the object travels within the 3D space. Users can assign to the object to be tracked an RFID tag that operates to identify the object such as through the use of hotspots as well as allowing the object to be tracked as it travels through the 3D space. Such created hotspots allow information such as through a video media to be communicated to viewers such as potential customers.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the video media includes television broadcasts and clips DVD s and BLU RAY optical discs movies and movie clips music videos video files streaming videos over Internet and other such video media hereinafter referred collectively as video media . Consumers or viewers collectively referred to herein as Viewers can then select objects within such video media and utilize the advertisement and marketing system to communicate and interact with users and other viewers.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention the system operates to provide users with an opportunity to create hotspots of objects within a 3D space which can be incorporated into a video media. Such hotspots allow viewers the ability to select objects within the video media that are associated with one of the hotspots and transmit their interest in the selected object to one or more users.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the system comprises at least one directional antenna for receiving transmission from an RFID tag.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention the system comprises at least one directional antenna mounted to a two axis gimbal effective for panning and tilting to cover a defined space.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the system comprises means for automatically moving the direction of the antenna to cover the defined 3D space.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention the system includes a plurality of antennas placed circumferentially around a defined space and operates by determining signal time and strength of an RFID signal to calculate the location of the object within a defined space.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the method and system for tracking RFID tags in three dimensional 3D space use in advertising and marketing provides users with means for receiving information such as specific business information concerning the viewer s demographics and other information concerning the effectiveness of the advertising.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention the method and system for tracking RFID tags in three dimensional 3D space for use in advertising and marketing allows advertising to be incorporated into video media whereby viewers can select click objects and interact with users.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention the method and system for tracking RFID tags in three dimensional 3D space provides users the ability to obtain viewer information for sending track able coupons maps and other customized information materials to the viewers.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention the method and system for tracking RFID tags in three dimensional 3D space for use in advertising and marketing provides users the ability to embed hotspots into various video media that can be transmitted to other viewers such as by Email TWITTER communication FACEBOOK pages and other similar communication systems.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention the method and system for tracking RFID tags in three dimensional 3D space for use in advertising and marketing operates to place a viewer s display device adapted for receiving transmission of video media in communication with the system for identifying hotspots within a video media.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the system software operates in conjunction with the video display such that when material is selected by a viewer the video display transfers a video image snapshot or screenshot of the video media to the system which then directs the system software to operate and calculate the coordinates of the area selected by the user and stores the video image in a data bank or cloud .

In another preferred embodiment of the a method and system for tracking RFID tags in three dimensional 3D space for use in advertising and marketing the video media is operable on assortment of devices capable of viewing video media.

In a preferred embodiment of the method and system for tracking RFID tags in three dimensional 3D space for use in advertising and marketing the invention comprises an assortment of devices capable of utilizing web pages Emails Twitter feeds cellular transmittals cellular text messages Internet instant messages and social network systems.

Preferably the method and system for tracking RFID tags in three dimensional 3D space for use in advertising and marketing comprises objects in a video media and by viewers for selecting such objects comprises a data bank having a plurality of hotspots each hotspot is directed to a corresponding object a viewer video display device operable for receiving and displaying a video media a selection device or method for selecting an object in the video media and a system framework in communication with the data bank cloud and the viewer display device and operable for determining if a hotspot exists for the selected object wherein if a hotspot exists for the selected object the user viewer module directs the video display device to generate a dialogue such as a window for allowing a viewer to correspond with a user.

In a preferred embodiment the viewer video display device is selected from the group consisting of televisions cellular telephones computer displays personal digital assistants and video game consoles.

Another preferred embodiment of the invention the method and system for tracking RFID tags in three dimensional 3D space for use in advertising and marketing comprises the steps of attaching an RFID tag to an object tracking the coordinates of the RFID tag as the object travels through the defined 3D space using the RFID tag and the time and coordinates of the RFID tag to create a hotspot identifying a viewer the viewer selecting an object in a video media having a created hotspot calculating the coordinates of the selected object at a particular time using the coordinates and the particular time to identify any hotspots for the object in the video media using the hotspot to identify the object and a user associated with the object and providing a dialogue whereby the viewer and the user may communicate.

In a preferred embodiment a viewer can contact the user using a dialogue such as a window appearing on the viewer s display device.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the dialogue operates to allow a viewer to receive and transmit messages to other viewers.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the dialogue operates to allow a user to receive and transmit messages to viewers.

These and other benefits advantages and embodiments of the invention will be apparent from the following description the accompanying drawings and the appended claims.

The present invention solves the prior art problems discussed above and provides a distinct advance in the state of the art. The method and system for tracking RFID tags in three dimensional 3D space such as for use in advertising and marketing provide users with an opportunity to mark identify and locate objects using an RFID tag which when located and tracked within a 3D space operate to create hotspots within a video media. Such hotspots allow viewers the ability to select click an object within the video media that is associated with the hotspot and transmit their interest in the object to a user. The ability to track and locate an RFID Tag within a defined 3D space allows hotspots to be created for objects in live broadcasts. It should also be understood that the ability to track an RFID tag within a 3D space has many other applications such as but not limited to tracking objects within a defined 3D space tracking objects within a defined 2D space tracking objects entering or leaving a defined 3D space identifying objects within the 3D space identifying objects within the 2D space and monitoring the movement of the object within the 3D space or 2D space.

In a preferred embodiment as shown in the method and system for tracking RFID tags within a defined 3D space comprises a viewer interface module for communicating with a viewer through the viewer s video display device a user viewer interface module in communication with the viewer interface module to receive and transmit information concerning an object a content collaboration module for allowing users to work together in populating a data bank or cloud and a financial transaction module for carrying on a financial transaction between a viewer and a user.

Referring to the viewer interface module operates for receiving incoming messages and alerts i.e. RSS feed and dispatches messages and alerts i.e. HTTP requests URL URI encoded streams from and to a viewer s video display device . Further the viewer interface module also operates to hosts widgets i.e. small runtime applets such as games or informational dialogues that function independently of one another . Preferably as shown in the viewer interface module includes a system framework and an application programming interface operable for use with interactive television software such as JAVA TV from Oracle Corporation and alongside of or on top of other existing software frameworks such as across a broadcast television interface such as TRU2WAY interactive digital cable services system from Cable Television Laboratories Inc. ANDROID software stack from Google Inc. Google TV participatory information system from Google Inc. and TIVO digital video recording by TiVo Inc. and or an Internet web application interface that uses a multimedia platform for adding video to Internet web sites such as ADOBE FLASH from Adobe Systems . The viewer interface module utilizes an appropriate scripting language for controlling one or more applications such as ECMA SCRIPT from Ecma International . It should be understood that the Internet web application interface can operate utilizing any fully realized runtime code using an appropriate language for structuring and presenting content on the Internet such as HTML5 thereby allowing the Internet web application interface to be accessed and communicate with a variety of web browsers and web sites having meta file format or container file format Flash Video . In this way a viewers video display device can comprise computer displays and other devices accessing video media through various Internet web sites or IPTV.

As illustrated in in a preferred embodiment the application programming interface is coupled to a viewer s video display device such as a television by either a Set Top Box or the display device and is an Internet capable television connected to the Internet. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the television is coupled to the Internet I such that constant interaction is provided. In another preferred embodiment of the invention the viewer s video display device is connected to a set up box that preferably includes a conventional information storage apparatus capable of intermittently caching relevant information until the application programming interface makes transmittal contact such as with the Internet I and operates to transmit stored cached information to the application programming interface module . In another preferred embodiment of the invention the viewer s video display device comprises other forms of devices that can display video media and are connected continuously or periodically to the Internet. Such devices include cellular telephones computers personal digital assistants PDA video game consoles and other such devices.

Referring to the user viewer interface module comprises an administrative computer system comprising one or more computers for implementing and operating the system software that operates such that the various modules cooperate together. The user viewer interface and the viewer interface module are each electrically linked to at least one server connected to the Internet I to assess retrieve and transmit information. The computer system s is electronically coupled to suitable input device like a keypad touch screen or any other suitable input device that can accept information and one or more suitable output devices such as a computer display printer and the like. The administrative computer system also includes at least one data bank for storing various information including information concerning users viewers and business information. It should be understood that the administrative computer system can include various combinations of such conventional components peripherals and devices. Preferably the administrative computer system operates under the control of an operating system such as the WINDOWS operating system developed by Microsoft Corporation or the MACINTOSH operating system developed by Apple Computer Corporation. It should be understood however that other operating systems could be utilized to implement the system software of the advertising and marketing system of the present invention.

The system software preferably is a computer readable medium having computer readable instructions for performing a method of operating the system including providing support for creating and or editing hotspots determining coordinates of objects within a video media and performing and coordinating the activities of the various modules comprising the system. Preferably the system software is also an interactive menu and event driven system that cooperates with the server for using conventional type of prompt dialog and entry windows to guide a user to enter information for facilitating communications and information exchange between individual users viewers and the system . As used herein the term software refers to any form of programmed machine readable language or instructions e.g. object code that when loaded or otherwise installed provides operating instructions to a machine capable of reading those instructions such as a computer. The system software of the present invention can be stored or reside on as well as be loaded or installed from one or more floppy disks optical disks hard disks or any other form of suitable non volatile electronic storage media and can also be installed by downloading or other form of remote transmission such as by using Local or Wide Area Network LAN or WAN based Internet based web based or other remote downloading or transmission methods. It should be understood that the system software can be a single program or can be a combination of existing software such as identified herein that operate together under a framework to perform the operations described herein.

In operation as illustrated ins the user viewer interface module sends and receives messages and data to and from viewers through the viewer interface module . The user viewer interface module can also send and receive messages and data to and from users through the content collaboration module . It should be understood that the viewer interface module and the user viewer interface module operates bi directionally between a variety of messaging protocols including Email SMS text various social networks as well as proprietary Internet chat protocols such as SKYPE and AOL s Instant Messenger system and other similar systems. The messages and data can then be made available to viewer s and user s display devices through the user viewer interface module .

In a preferred embodiment the system operates to allow hotspots to be created for live broadcasts and performances. Referring to the system further comprises one or more RFID tags attached to one or more objects for receiving and transmitting a signal at least one antenna for receiving a transmitted signal from an RFID tag or for transmitting a signal to an RFID tag and a reader transmitter reader electronically coupled to the antenna s . Preferably the reader is in communication with a processor or a computer or other like means having reader software which operates to use the signals for calculating positional coordinates of the RFID tag within a defined 3D space . In a preferred embodiment the RFID tag is a passive RFID tag but it should be understood that in other preferred embodiments the RFID tag is an active RFID tag. In a preferred embodiment the RFID tag is a 2.45 GHz active RFID tag. The reader is a conventional RFID reader receiver that preferably operates with conventional 915 MHz passive RFID tags but it should be understood that other RFID readers can be utilized depending on the particular RFID tags being used.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the antenna s is designed for use in the 2.4 GHz frequency band range with a gain of about 14 dBi indoor outdoor directional antenna. Preferably the antenna has a beam width of about 30 degrees horizontal and 30 degree vertical and is mounted to an assembly such as a two axis gimbal assembly that operates to pan and tilt the antenna in a predetermined pattern to cover an entire defined 3D space . The assembly includes a servo mechanism operationally coupled to the antenna for panning and tilting the antenna . Preferably the servo mechanism uses two servos each having about 145 Oz in of torque with a rotation speed of about 0.13 sec 60 degrees and with 180 degrees range of rotation controlled by a pulse width modulated PWM signal. The use of such a servo mechanism permits the antenna to point in the direction of and pick up the RFID signal being transmitted within the defined 3D space or for permitting the RFID signal to be transmitted to an RFID tag . It should be understood that the servo mechanism and the particular servos utilized can vary depending on the size of the antenna the gimbal assembly and the dimensions of the 3D space.

The processor and reader operate together with the reader software to calculate the positional coordinates of the RFID tag within the defined 3D space . The reader software further operates and directs the servo mechanism to tilt and pan the antenna in a scan like predetermined pattern while recording the direction of the antenna . Preferably the reader is coupled to the administrative computer system to provide an interface to allow users to instruct the reader software to provide electronic commands directing the servo mechanism to pan and tilt the antenna through a maximum and minimum range of antenna angles for covering the entire defined 3D space as well as allowing users to instruct the reader software to provide electronic commands that adjust the speed of the servo mechanism . It should be understood that the speed of the servo mechanism is adjusted based on various factors including the dimensions of the 3D space the number of RFID tags within the 3D space the number of RFID tags entering or leaving the 3D space and the speed that the objects RFID tags are traveling within the 3D space.

In operation the reader transmits one or more signals a unique identity code into the defined 3D space at a plurality of particular frequencies. AN RFID tag receives the signal and conventionally modulates its unique identity code and re transmits the modulated RFID signal . The modulated RFID signal is received by the antenna which transfers the signal to the reader . The processor operates the reader software that calculates the transmission time that it took for the signal to be transmitted by the reader and received by the RFID tag and for the responding RFID signal to be transmitted from the RFID tag and received by the reader . The total transmission time together with the direction of the antenna allows the reader software to precisely determine the RFID tag s position within the 3D space . Accordingly by measuring the transmission time of the signal and its direction allows the reader software to derive the precise location of the RFID tag and the object that it is attached to within the defined 3D space and the time it occupied such location. It should now be understood that by actively transmitting and receiving signals the movement of an RFID tag and its associated object can be continuously tracked within the defined 3D space as well as the time the object was at a certain position within the 3D space.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention as shown in the system comprises a plurality of antennas arranged around the defined 3D space . Preferably at least at least three antennas are needed to determine the location of the RFID tag within the 3D space. However depending on the size of the defined 3D space additional antennas can be used to increase the accuracy of the measured location of the RFID tag. Signals being send by an RFID tag within the 3D space received by the multiple antennas and transmitted to the reader and by measuring the angle of arrival and signal time from each antenna the processor using conventional triangular technique.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention the system operates by varying the strength of the signal that can be received by the antenna such that the processor operates to determine the distance between the antenna and the RFID tag. By setting the strength of the signal to a particular level is used to limit the range of the RFID tag. For an illustrative example if a first RFID tag is about nine feet away from the antenna and a second RFID tag is fourteen feet away from the antenna by first setting the strength of the signal that can be detected by the antenna such that an RFID tag of more than ten feet cannot be detected then only the first RFID tag will be detected by then setting the detectable strength of the signal to fifteen feet then both RFID tags will be detected. Accordingly the processor will operate to determine that the second RFID tag is between ten and fifteen feet away.

In a preferred embodiment as shown in the reader software operates to read the various RFID tag signals that identify the specific RFID tag together with calculating the location coordinates of the RFID tags and displays the RFID tag information on a user s output display in the form of an output page . Preferably the information regarding an RFID tag is provided as a raw data display field output readings taken straight from the reader and as an optimized data display filed whereby RFID tag locations are determined and intermediate values are created if there is a substantial change in their readings. Preferably the output page also provides time value fields that instructs the reader software to adjust the timing of the readings where T1 is the minimum time between two RFID tag data readings and T2 is the maximum time before the reader sends an empty data reading to the computer meaning no RFID tags have been read . The output page also provides a low bound input field and a high bound input field that allows the user to instruct the reader software to adjust the signal being sent by the antenna within certain bounds an increment field that allows a user to instruct the reader software to set the increment of signal adjustment and a gimbal output field that allows a user to review the position and direction of the antenna.

Once the reader software has identified the RFID tag and the object associated with that particular RFID tag and the location coordinates of the RFID tag within the defined 3D space for a defined timeline the particular time and location that the object is at during any particular point in time are recorded as video hotspots in the digital video media such as a recording of the live performance and stored within the database or cloud .

Referring to the content collaboration module is shown for providing services to users. In operation the content collaboration module allows users to utilize a conventional web browser to create and manage points of sale and advertising campaigns. The system software directs the content collaboration module to utilize video hotspot that are linked directly to a user s existing website using standard Uniform Resource Indicator Locator protocols. The video hotspots are also displayed as a set of visual points along a timeline which displays a time image. This results in users not needing to know any programming languages to utilize the interactive advertising and marketing system of the present invention. In another preferred embodiment the system also operates to allow users to import data to the timeline in the form of XML i.e. time events as SMIL or shapes hotspots as SVG .

In another preferred embodiment of the invention the system software also directs the content collaboration module to operate and allow a user to upload and import graphics that can be displayed such as over a digital video medium in real time. It should now be understood that the graphics can be used as icons banner ads messages and stencils that appear over top of live television. For an illustrative example a can of beverage can be re labeled with such stencils.

In another preferred embodiment the system software also directs the collaboration module to collect and collate reported information and data which can be transmitted to users. This information can then be used by users in evaluating the advertising value created hence analytics. Such information can be obtained from advertising hosts such as websites that provide video media that can include the number of individuals viewing the video media track of the number of objects and the particular objects being selected by a viewer of a video media as well as the demographics of the individuals viewing the video media and other information that may be of interest to users. This information can then be used to tailor marketing and advertising activities to specifically attract specific types of viewers. Further users can define parameters to allow them to target viewers falling within a set of demographics.

The financial transaction module operates to allow viewers to make transactions with specific users. Viewers selecting objects viewed on a video media can select or click on the object and purchase it from the user or can request additional information from the user. The financial transaction module communicates with the user viewer interface module and utilizes various conventional software applications such as online shopping carts online banking systems and other well known systems for making financial transactions. In another preferred embodiment the financial transaction module operates in conjunction with conventional e commerce businesses allowing payments and money transfers to be made through an Internet third party such as PAYPAL from eBay Inc.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention as shown in a user wishing to utilize the system first accesses the system through the content collaboration module through a user s portal or access such as through an interactive opening web page e.g. HTML page accessible through the Internet. The system software operates to permit the user to register itself with the system and to perform the specific operations as fully described. To initiate the system the user obtains access to system through server via the Internet to obtain access to the system s website hosted by the server .

The system software directs the server to display the opening web page e.g. HTML page that provides the user with various options that allows a user to perform various operations such as allowing the user to add subtract and edit the user s various hotspots in various digital video media stored within the database or cloud or to download graphical labels or screens which may be conventionally superimposed into a video media or obtain business information such as general information of interest to businesses that may include information relating to various advertising media available hotspot space cost information demographic information and statistical information relating to the user s advertising such as number of viewers demographics of viewers etc. stored in the data bank of the administrative computer system . The opening web page also provides means whereby the user can request to become a client for access and use of the system. Upon request by the user such as by selecting a sign up field the content collaboration module operates to automatically direct the system server to display on the user s output device a registration web page e.g. HTML page . The user can then register with the system and preferably receive a customer identification number and obtain a security password. If the user has already registered with the system the user can at the opening web page skip the registration process after inputting the appropriate sign in information and select an appropriate field at the opening web page to prompt the content collaboration module to display on the user s output device the operations web page for use by the user in creating adding subtracting modifying hotspots as well as obtaining various business information.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention as shown in a viewer wishing to utilize the system through the viewer s interface module through a viewer s portal or access such as through an interactive web site e.g. HTML page accessible through the Internet or the viewer s display device that is connected to the Internet. The system software than operates to permit the viewer to register with the system i.e. such as by FACEBOOK GOOGLE TWITTER or other such Internet web services. To initiate the system the viewer obtains access to the system through server via the Internet to obtain access to the system s website hosted by the server . The system software directs the server to display a viewer opening web page e.g. HTML page that provides the viewer with information concerning the operation of the system and requests information from the viewer including the types of video display devices that will be used by the viewer demographic information and other pertinent information.

In order to better understand how all of the various modules components and devices cooperate and work together the following exemplary illustration of the general overall operation of the subject invention is provided. A user through the user s video display device communicates with the system though the viewer interface module . Depending on the type of display device being used by the viewer the system software directs the application programming interface to utilize either the broadcast television interface or the internet application interface . It should be understood that the viewer video display device can be Internet ready such that it is in communication with the Internet or utilizes a set top box to make communication with the viewer interface module via the Internet I. In a preferred embodiment as illustrated in and the viewer has been provided with identification information such that when the viewer s display makes contact with the viewer interface module the particular viewer is identified Step . Preferably the viewer s identity is automatically transmitted to the system such as by use of the set top box or by the viewer video display device .

As illustrated in in the event a viewer is watching a video media on the viewer s video display device the user may utilize a cursor mouse touch for touch sensitive displays motion for motion sensitive remotes or other conventional and nonconventional means for identifying selecting an object on the video display device such as by clicking on the object in the video media step . As used herein the term clicking shall include the selecting of an object using the appropriate means for the viewer s display device. Clicking on the object causes the system software to operate and create an image or snap shot of the video media and the clicked object step which together with identifying information is then transmitted to the viewer interface module as described step . Upon receiving the video image or snap shot the viewer interface module operates to transmit the video image and the identifying information to the user viewer interface module step . It should be understood that identifying information may include a numerical identifier for the particular video media name of the source of the video media title time code of the click dates the positional coordinates of the click and other relevant information for identifying the particular video media hereinafter referred to as the digital image identifier . It should be also understood that in a preferred embodiment of the invention the viewer can click anywhere on the video display of the video media thereby operating as a message to users that can respond as described.

The user viewer interface module after receiving the video image or snap shot and the numerical identifier the system software operates to cause the system to calculate the coordinates of the clicked object identified with respect to the video image or snap shot Step . The user viewer interface module also searches the database cloud to find and obtain a copy of the video media using the video image or snap shot together with other information contained in the numerical identifier as references step . The system software then directs the interface module using the copy of the video media and the calculated coordinates of the clicked object identifies if a hotspot exists at the calculated coordinates for the digital image or snap shot step for the object . If no hotspot exists for the object in that particular video media the user viewer interface dispatches a message to the viewer interface module that receives the message and transmits the message to the viewer through the viewer s video display device step that no product information is available or other such prompt. If a hotspot does exist for the object the user viewer interface transmits a message to the viewer interface module that receives the message and transmits the message to the viewer through the viewer s video display device step that prompts the opening of a dialogue such as a window. The dialogue can request additional information from the viewer or ask if the viewer wishes to purchase the object or if the viewer wishes to receive additional information concerning the object. It should be understood that the message to the viewer transmitted by the user video interface is not limited to any particular request but can be vary depending of the particular object selected and the user. If the viewer wishes to purchase the clicked object viewer so indicates and the system software activates the financial transaction module such that the viewer is connected with a third party ecommerce merchant such as AMAZON Amazon Services LLC eBay eBay Inc. ITUNES Apple Inc. PAYPAL PayPal Inc. and the like for making payment for the selected object step . It should be understood that if no hotspot exists for the selected object the system can operate to track the object and the viewer and provides information to users that may be interested in responding to or contact the viewer or provides information to users that may be interested in creating a hotspot for the selected object. It should also be understood that if no hotspot exists for the calculated coordinates for the viewer s click the system can operate to store the information and allow a user or an automated process to review the stored information and or allow the user to respond to the viewer. It should now also be understood that in a preferred embodiment as described above hotspots are created for live broadcasts such as by use of RFID tags attached to such objects. Accordingly such live broadcasts are recorded and together with the hotspots created for the live broadcasts are saved in the database cloud . Such video media and hotspots can then be used as described.

In another exemplary illustration of a preferred embodiment of the invention as illustrated in a video media as shown is being played on a viewer s video display device . At some point during the viewing of the video media the viewer selects clicks an object of interest being shown in the video media by using the appropriate device such as a mouse wand pointer touch sensitive screen or other similar device step . In a preferred embodiment selection of the object causes the system software to freeze the frame of the video media showing the object step . The viewer can then determine if he she is interested in purchasing the object obtain additional information about the object or communicate with other viewers concerning the object step . As previously described the system operates to identify the object and determines if a hotspot exists for the selected object step . In a preferred embodiment of the invention the object would appear as a separate frame while the video media continues being shown on the rest of the viewer s video display or recorded such as by the viewer s video display device or use of a video recorder or other device capable of recording video not shown . If the system determines and identifies a hotspot for the selected object as shown in the system software operates to generate a dialogue or window on the viewer s video display device step . As shown in a preferred embodiment the object selected is identified together with other information such as price manufacture product description and the like. In another preferred embodiment of the invention messages and data can be made available to the viewer through the viewer s display device generated by the user viewer interface module . This permits the viewer to receive real time information concerning the selected object. It should be understood to one skilled in the art that the system operates such that when a viewer clicks on a selected object the user viewer interface module can operate to provide users that created a hotspot for the selected object with information concerning the viewer. This information can include the viewer s contact information. In a preferred embodiment the system further operates to automatically review the information and provide an automatic response. In another preferred embodiment the information is simply reviewed by a user and the user provides a response to the viewer. In a preferred embodiment of the invention users can provide viewers advertising that can include downloadable printable material such as coupons maps product information and the like such as by use of the viewer s video display device. In another preferred embodiment of the invention users can provide the viewer an Internet link or hyperlink for allowing the viewer to view the user s web page or bring up information such as through the use of a pop up or window.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention the method and system for tracking RFID tags in three dimensional 3D space operates to allow viewers to exchange messages and preferably video media sharing including computer computer computer phone phone computer and text messaging video media to other viewers using conventional messaging systems such as but not limited to TWITTER from Twitter Inc. YAHOO IM from Yahoo Inc. YOUTUBE from Google Inc. and FACEBOOK from Facebook Inc. As shown in the system operates to allow the viewer to select and utilize the desired messaging system by simply clicking onto the desired system.

It should now be understood to those skilled in the art that the subject invention is a method and system for tracking RFID tags in three dimensional 3D space for advertising and marketing objects in a video media. Preferably the system comprises a cloud having a plurality of hotspots each hotspot is directed to a corresponding object a viewer video display device operable for receiving and displaying a video media a selection device for selecting an object in the video media and a system framework in communication with the cloud and the viewer display device that is operable for determining if a hotspot exists for the selected object. Preferably if a hotspot exists for the selected object the user viewer module directs the video display device to generate a dialogue for allowing a viewer to correspond with a user. In a preferred embodiment the viewer video display device is selected from the group consisting of televisions cellular telephones computer displays personal digital assistants and video game consoles. In one preferred embodiment the viewer display device is a touch screen tablet computer device such as an IPAD or IPAD2 from Apple Inc. The video media would be provided by a cable television operator such as provided by Time Warner Cable Inc. Hotspots can then be created by users and overlaid over the video media. In another preferred embodiment of the invention the viewer display device is a touch screen tablet computer device such as the IPAD or IPAD 2 from Apple Inc. The video media is obtained through a website such as HULU www.hulu.com in a video format such as MPEG 4 as specified by the Moving Pictures Expert Group. Hotspots can then be created by users and overlaid over the video media. In a preferred embodiment the video media would be provided by a video streaming service such as NETFLIX from Netflix Inc. IT should now be understood to one skilled in the art that regardless of the video format provided by such a streaming service the subject invention would operate to provide hotspots created by users that can be overlaid over the video media. In another preferred embodiment of the invention the system framework operates to allow users to add subtract or modify hotspots for objects stored in the cloud. Further the system framework operates to record the demographics of viewers and video media being viewed by the viewers. Preferably the system framework also operates to connect the viewer video display device with a user website. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the digital video media is a live broadcast.

It should now be apparent that the system and method of the subject invention permits hotspots to be created during live programing. Objects attached to RFID tags can be tracked in a 3D space and such tags can be used to create hotspots within the live programming.

It should now be apparent that by tracking RFID tags attached to objects within and moving within a defined 3D space allows hotspots to be incorporated into a live broadcast or performance.

It should also now be apparent that by incorporating hotspots into live broadcasts or performances allows a viewer to receive pertinent information about an object within the 3D space. For an illustrative example a view can click onto a sports player being displayed during a live performance and receive information about the sports player displayed on his output display such as a television.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is a method and system for tracking RFID tags in three dimensional 3D space comprising the steps of identifying a viewer the viewer selecting an object in a video media calculating the coordinates of the selected object using the coordinates to identify any hotspots for the object in the video media using the hotspot to identify the object and a user associated with the object and providing a connection whereby a viewer can contact the user. Preferably the video media is being displayed on a viewer s display device. In a preferred embodiment a viewer can contact the user in the form of a dialogue such as a window appearing on the viewer digital display device. In another preferred embodiment a viewer can contact the user in the form of a dialogue such as a window appearing on the viewer digital display device. In another preferred embodiment the connection allows a viewer to receive and transmit messages to a user and a viewer to receive and transmit messages to other viewers. Preferably the method includes the step of uploading graphics to be displayed over the video media.

Another preferred embodiment is a method comprising a framework for performing the steps of selecting at least one object in a video media overlaying a hotspot for each selected object in a video media such that the hotspots overlay the video media and viewing the video media on a viewer video display by the viewer wherein when the object is selected the framework operates to provide communication between the user and the viewer.

it should now be apparent that the method and system for tracking RFID tags in three dimensional 3D space provides an interactive system having software that utilizes a graphic user interface formatted to function with a wide variety of input devices. It should now be apparent to one skilled in the art that the system allows hotspots to be incorporated across any video media including live programming. Unlike prior methods using hotspots whereby video media are incorporated with embedded hotspots the system of the subject invention utilizes a cloud whereby objects within a video media are selected by a viewer and are identified by the system to determine if a hotspot has been provided for the selected object. In this way the hotspots are basically overlaid onto the video media rather than incorporated into the video media. It should also now be apparent to one skilled in the art that by overlaying hotspots over the video medial hotspot is acting independent of the video media rather than by embedding hotspots into a video media allows hotspots to be utilized for any video media including live broadcasts. The system allows users to be able to access the system from any ordinary web browser to create and manage points of sale and advertising campaigns. Video hotspots can be linked directly to a user s existing website using standard Uniform Resource Indicator Locator protocols. The hotspots can also be displayed as a set of visual points along a timeline displaying a time index. Further it should also now be apparent that the system allows users to upload and import graphics that can be displayed over video in real time. Such graphics can be used as icons banner ads messages or stencils that appear over top of live television as well as recorded video media. The system software also allows for the collecting and collating of data for use by users in analyzing the effectiveness of their advertising. Further the system operates to allow users to define parameters such as specific demographics geographical location age ranges gender etc. .

It should now be apparent to one skilled in the art that that the subject invention solves the unique problems of real time tracking using radio frequency identification RFID tags. Since a passive RFID tag does not have a power source it requires a transmitter to power it. This produces many factors that affect tracking. If a tag is not within the field of view of the transmitter the tag is off. When it comes into the field its antenna is energized and powers the device. The tag then transmits a unique ID to the transmitter. Active RFID tags can be used to track since it is able to transmit a signal regardless of which antenna is within range. However active tags are expensive compared to passive RFID tags and they are not as easy to incorporate within a live setting unlike a passive RFID tag. Traditional RFID readers have no knowledge of the distance the tag is from the reader. Thus the system and method of the subject invention allows the location of an RFID tag either a passive or an active RFID tag in relation to the field defined 3D space .

It should now be apparent to one skilled in the art that the method and system of the subject invention allows a viewer to select items on the screen such as a television screen to get more information about them. The method and system operates such that items can be tracked in real time through the use of RFID tags. The method and system allows RFID tags to be embedded in items which will appear in a scene. The RFID tag s location can then be determined in relation to the camera and translated into coordinates on the TV screen.

RFID technology is able to detect tags in a wide variety of applications. However until now these applications do not include successfully tracking the location of RFID tags as they move in real time using an automated system. The system and method of the subject invention operates such that products can be tracked in filmed and broadcasted settings. This automated RFID tracking system detects tags in a scene and determines the location of these tags so that this information could be used to assign particular parts of the images sent to televisions the necessary information for point and click advertising on even live broadcasts would work. It should now be apparent to one skilled in the art that the system of tracking RFID tags can be used for tracking RFID tags objects in both 3D space as well as 2D space. Further the system can comprise a plurality of antennas and readers operating individually or collectively to cover a plurality of defined 3D and 2D spaces. For an illustrative example a part leaving one defined space can be tracked as it travels through the defined space and into other defined spaces. It should now be apparent that the system and method of the subject application reduces the number of antennas readers and associated software typically required for tracking RFID tags through defined spaces.

It should also be understood that the system permits users and viewers to communicate through the use of various media including through web pages Emails TWITTER feeds cellular transmittals cellular text messages Internet instant messages and social and business network systems.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding it should be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Furthermore it should be noted that there are alternative ways of implementing the method and system for implementing the method of the present invention. Accordingly the present embodiments and examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

