---

title: Interference detection, characterization and location in a wireless communications or broadcast system
abstract: A Wide Area Sensor Network (WASN) is disclosed that utilizes wideband software defined radios (SDRs) to monitor RF energy over a wide frequency range, detect when critical frequencies are being jammed or otherwise interfered with, and locate the source of the interference so that the interference can be eliminated. The WASN may use one or more geolocation techniques In addition, the WASN may detect and locate unauthorized transmitters as well as estimate the transmitted power of authorized transmitters to assure they are not transmitting more power than authorized.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09121923&OS=09121923&RS=09121923
owner: TruePosition, Inc.
number: 09121923
owner_city: Berwyn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120228
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 346 598 filed Dec. 30 2008 currently pending the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This application is also related by subject matter to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 509 391 filed Jul. 24 2009 and entitled Diversity Time and Frequency Location Receiver the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention generally relates to the detection and location of interfering transmitters within the geographic coverage area of a wireless communications and broadcast networks and in particular to the location and detection of such interferers using a network based wireless location system.

The characterization of a radio signal in the presence of noise is a classic radio problem. Commonly called co channel or adjacent channel interference spurious signals are considered part of the radio noise that a receiver must deal with in the course of normal operation.

As the use of wireless communications has increased from traditional radio and television broadcasts to two way terrestrial and satellite wireless communications the value of radio transmissions has increased. And as the value of radio transmissions has increased the problem of intentional interference such as denial of service attacks have also increased.

Detection of an interfering radio signal and characterization of the interfering signal is well known in the art. Geolocation techniques have been created suitable to wide area deployment mostly under the auspices of the United States US Federal Communications Commission FCC Enhanced 9 1 1 mandate. For example several experiments were conducted during several months of 1995 and 1996 in the cities of Philadelphia and Baltimore to verify the system s ability to mitigate multipath in large urban environments. In 1996 TruePosition constructed the first commercial system in Houston Tex. that was used to test the technology s effectiveness in that area and its ability to interface directly with E9 1 1 systems. In 1997 the location system was tested in a 350 square mile area in the State of New Jersey and was used to locate real 9 1 1 calls from real people in trouble.

The following is an overview of the network based geo location techniques most applicable to locating generic interfering radio signals over a wide area.

Geolocation is the process of determining the source of a radio frequency RF signal by exploiting the characteristics of radio wave propagation. As radio waves propagate from their point of origin the waves emanate as spherical waves in all directions. The waves exhibit a time delay because they travel at a fixed speed and with an apparent reduction in power because of spherical spreading. Thus at a point of reception that is fixed with respect to a fixed point of origin an RF signal appears to originate from a specific direction exhibit a time delay that is proportional to the distance between the point of origin and point of reception and reduced in power by an amount proportional to the distance between the point of origin and point of reception.

Geolocation techniques that exploit time delays are known as Time of Arrival TOA and Time Difference of Arrival TDOA techniques. Geolocation techniques that exploit the change in power radio wave characteristics as they propagate are known as Power of Arrival POA and Power Difference of Arrival PDOA techniques. Angle of Arrival AoA geolocation techniques measure the direction from which a source of RF appears to originate. Radio waves also experience an apparent change in frequency as a result of the Doppler effect when the source is moving or the sensor receiving the source is moving. The amount of frequency shift is dependent upon the center frequency of the source as well as the relative velocity between the source and receiving sensor. Geolocation techniques that exploit this characteristic of RF signal propagation are known as Frequency Difference of Arrival FDOA techniques.

Each geolocation technique provides different levels of performance in terms of location accuracy and impose different requirements on the sensors i.e. software defined radios SDRs in a Wide Area Sensor Network WASN . A key benefit of the WASN is a sensor platform that is calibrated in power and synchronized in time and frequency to permit the exploitation of all of the characteristics of radio wave propagation to determine the origins of RF signals. The multichannel RF to IF stage of the SDR permits the SDR to utilize a direction finding antenna array to determine the AoA of incident RF energy. Each approach can be utilized separately or combined with other techniques i.e. hybrid geolocation.

Network based TOA location uses the relative time of arrival of a radio broadcast at the network based receivers. This technique requires that the distance between individual receiver sites SDRs and any differences in individual receiver timing be known cabling delays differences in SDR designs or hardware revisions . The radio signal time of arrival can then be normalized at the receiver site leaving only the time of flight between the device and each receiver. Since radio signals travel with a known velocity the distance can be calculated from derived normalized time of arrivals at the receivers. Time of arrival data collected from three of more receivers may be used to resolve the precise position.

TDOA is the most accurate and useful time based geolocation technique for emitters that are not cooperative. TDOA requires close time synchronization between the SDRs in the WASN. When two sensors receive a RF signal simultaneously and the time delay between these two received signals is determined it is well known that a hyperbola with the two sensors at its foci describes the potential locations of the originating signal. Adding a third sensor again time synchronized with the other two and receiving the same signal simultaneously provides another hyperbola. The intersection of these two hyperbola reveals a unique location as the source of the RF energy. Adding even more sensors yields a greater location accuracy with an over determined solution. TDOA location accuracy depends upon the bandwidth of the signal being located as well as a number of other factors such as integration time and signal to noise ratio. Additional detail on using TDOA to locate transmitters e.g. mobile phones can be found in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 327 144 Cellular telephone location system and 6 047 192 Robust efficient localization system. 

Additional details on using TDOA hybrids to locate transmitters e.g. mobile phones can be found in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 108 555 Enhanced time difference localization system and 6 119 013 Enhanced time difference localization system. 

The SDRs of the WASN possess multichannel phase and frequency coherent circuitry permitting the use of phase interferometric antenna arrays to be used to determine the angle of arrival AoA of RF signals. In effect the AoA points to the direction from which the RF energy originated. A unique location can be estimated by determining the AoA at two or more geometrically separated sites. The unique location is represented by the intersection of the two or more lines of bearing. AoA does not require fine time or frequency synchronization between the sites and providing AoA information to the system controller central processor. Furthermore AoA accuracy is not dependent upon the bandwidth of the emitter as with UTDOA providing the capability to geolocate on narrowband signals. Additional detail on using AoA to locate transmitters mobile phones can be found in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 4 728 959 Direction finding localization system. Additional detail on using AoA TDOA hybrids to locate transmitters mobile phones can be found in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 119 013 Enhanced time difference localization system. 

An approximate location of an emitter may be determined by measuring its power at various locations. Measurement can be performed simultaneously with multiple sensors or in a time multiplexed fashion by moving a single sensor to several locations for emitters that transmit a constant power for a significant length of time. Power based geolocation techniques do not have as stringent time and frequency synchronization requirements as the other geolocation techniques discussed above. However fast fading and shadow fading may limit the accuracy of this method.

Since the power of a radio signal decreases with range as a result of attenuation of radio waves by the atmosphere and the combined effects of free space loss plane earth loss and diffraction losses an estimate of the range can be determined from the received signal. In simplest terms as the distance between transmitter and receiver increases the radiated radio energy is modeled as if spread over the surface of a sphere. This spherical model means that the radio power at the receiver is decreased by the square of the distance.

Power of arrival is a proximity measurement used between a single network node the SDR and transmitter. POA location uses the relative power of arrival of a radio broadcast at the network based SDRs.

Using signal propagation modeling and historical calibration data the radio signal power of arrival can be normalized at the receiver site leaving only the path loss between the device and each receiver. Power of arrival data collected from three or more receivers can be used to resolve an approximate position.

PDOA uses the absolute differences in received radio power at multiple receivers to compute a position. PDOA location techniques require that receiver locations be known a priori. Signal propagation modeling and or historical calibration data can be used to improve the location estimate. Power data collected from three of more receivers using a common time base can be used to resolve an approximate position.

Using FDOA to determine an approximate location of an emitter is performed by measuring the signal s frequency at various locations. Measurement is performed simultaneously with multiple sensors or in a time multiplexed fashion by moving a single sensor to several locations for emitters that transmit for a significant length of time.

Frequency Difference of Arrival uses measurement of signal frequency offsets as received at multiple receivers. Due to the differing Doppler induced frequency offsets FDOA provides speed and heading of moving transmitters. To use FDOA for location estimation either or both the transmitter or receiver s must be in motion.

Since both the FDOA and TDOA techniques require a precise timing source common clock and a common frequency reference both techniques can be used simultaneously for localization as described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 876 859 Method for estimating TDOA and FDOA in a wireless location system. 

All the described location techniques can be used for the localization of an emitter by using techniques such as a Weighted Least Squares or Constrained Least Squares algorithm which allows the additive probability of each location technique to render a best location estimate for the technique or mix of techniques used.

The great dependence of a modern society s upon wireless systems creates vulnerabilities to disruption of the wireless systems. Wireless equipment is relatively unprotected to disruption by jamming and interference whether inadvertent or intentional. A system that is capable of being deployed over a wide area that detects classifies and locates wireless signals would be useful for monitoring the airwaves for interference to critical wireless signals. It would be advantageous to use one or more of the above geolocation techniques in a Wide Area Sensor Network WASN to identify and locate intentional and unintentional sources of interference over a geographic area of interest.

The following summary provides an overview of various aspects of exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure. This summary is not intended to provide an exhaustive description of all of the important aspects of the disclosed subject matter or to define the scope of the disclosure. Rather this summary is intended to serve as an introduction to the following description of illustrative embodiments.

A Wide Area Sensor Network WASN is disclosed that utilizes wideband software defined radios SDRs to provide a capability to monitor the airwaves over a wide frequency range detect when critical frequencies are being jammed or otherwise interfered with and locate the source of the interference so that the interference can be eliminated. The WASN may use one or more of the above described geolocation techniques In addition the WASN may detect and locate unauthorized transmitters as well as estimate the transmitted power of authorized transmitters to assure they are not transmitting more power than authorized.

In an exemplary embodiment methods and systems for detecting classifying and locating radio frequency RF emitters in a wide area wireless communications network is disclosed. In one embodiment a method may comprise receiving information for at least one signal to be monitored capturing time domain data for the signal for a predetermined duration over a predetermined bandwidth dividing the predetermined duration into equal time intervals and associating the time domain data with the equal time intervals converting the time domain data into frequency domain data and converting each of the time intervals into a frequency bin determining power characteristics for each of the frequency bins applying a spectral mask for the signal determining that a source of interference is present when the power characteristic for the frequency bin substantially differs from the power characteristic of the spectral mask and locating the source of interference using a geolocation determination algorithm.

In addition to the foregoing other aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure. It can be appreciated by one of skill in the art that one or more various aspects of the disclosure may include but are not limited to circuitry and or programming for effecting the herein referenced aspects of the present disclosure the circuitry and or programming can be virtually any combination of hardware software and or firmware configured to effect the herein referenced aspects depending upon the design choices of the system designer.

Certain specific details are set forth in the following description and figures to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the invention. Certain well known details often associated with signal processing computing and software technology are not set forth in the following disclosure to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the various embodiments of the invention. Further those of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that they can practice other embodiments of the invention without one or more of the details described below. Finally while various methods are described with reference to steps and sequences in the following disclosure the description as such is for providing a clear implementation of embodiments of the invention and the steps and sequences of steps should not be taken as required to practice this invention.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the invention or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the invention e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

We will now describe illustrative embodiments of the present invention. First we provide a detailed overview of the problem and then a more detailed description of our solutions.

Wireless systems abound in many areas of the world. Every aspect of our modern life is significantly influenced by wireless technology. Whether it is the anytime anywhere convenience of mobile phones or the entertainment provided by satellite television wireless technology greatly impacts a modern society s productivity and wellbeing. Recently much of modern society s critical infrastructure has become dependent upon satellite navigation systems. Satellite navigation systems are used to determine the whereabouts of critical assets assist in aircraft navigation including takeoffs and landings from airports and provide timing information for our telecommunications infrastructure. The great dependence of a modern society s upon wireless systems creates vulnerabilities to disruption of the wireless systems.

Wireless equipment is relatively unprotected to disruption by jamming and interference whether inadvertent or intentional. A system that is capable of being deployed over a wide area that detects classifies and locates wireless signals would be useful for monitoring the airwaves for interference to critical wireless signals. Additionally such a system could be used as a tool for many other purposes including optimization of the quality of wireless service. The system could use any of a number of well known network based location geolocation techniques to estimate the position of the emitter of interest.

Furthermore such a system can determine the effective utilization of RF channels by measuring RF power versus frequency and time. With the upcoming switch to a digital TV format for over the air OTA TV such a capability may also permit the determination of where unlicensed white space transmitters can be located as well as how much power they can transmit without interfering with digital OTA TV service.

A Wide Area Sensor Network WASN may be a passive receiving system with the capability to detect and locate jamming and interference to critical wireless signals over a wide frequency band and large geographic area. An exemplary WASN is illustrated in . The WASN is comprised of a network of software defined radios SDRs capable of a wide instantaneous bandwidth a system controller central processor and a backhaul communications network interconnecting the system controller central processor with the SDRs . Additionally a database may be a component of the system and connected to the controller central processor as well as one or more user interface terminals . The WASN may utilize the database for storage of allowed transmitter characteristics and for archiving the results of various campaigns. The database may also be used for map storage with multiple layers of geographic topographic radio modeling and place name information.

The system controller central processor may also have an interface to an external communications network for example the internet and a connection to a NTP time server providing coarse time information. In general the SDRs may be time and frequency synchronized to permit various geolocation techniques to locate wireless signals.

A WASN may be comprised of a variable number of SDRs. A time and location multiplexed WASN may be comprised of a single SDR that is moved from location to location in a serial fashion over the geographic area to be monitored. This configuration represents a minimal cost one suitable for detection classification and location determination of physically stationary transmitters that transmit for long periods of time. A WASN may also be comprised of a large number of stationary SDRs distributed throughout the geographic area to be monitored similar to a network of base stations of a wireless cellular system. This configuration is better suited for the detection classification and location of transient signals that only transmit for brief periods of time.

A fundamental component of a WASN are the SDRs that comprise it. A block diagram of an exemplary SDR is shown in . A key virtue of a SDR is the ability to change its configuration by reprogramming its programmable logic over an interface. An SDR may be comprised of one or more multichannel RF to Intermediate Frequency IF stages a switch matrix a set of analog to digital A D converters programmable logic programmable digital signal processors a control processor memory synchronization unit and a communication interface. The multichannel RF to IF stage serves to take a band of RF signals received by the antennas they are connected to and filter the signals to limit their bandwidth amplify the signals and translate the signals to an IF. The SDR may include a common local oscillator for all channels of a single multichannel RF to IF stage providing frequency coherence. Multiple multichannel RF to IF stages may use different local oscillators but a common time and frequency reference may be provided by the time and frequency synchronization unit. The switch matrix serves to select specific channels from the multitude of multichannel RF to IF stages and present the channels to the A Ds. The A Ds convert multiple channels of analog signals to a digital format at a specified sampling rate.

Once converted to a digital format the signals can be operated upon by the programmable logic stage. A key feature of programmable logic is the ability to reprogram the logic over an interface to change its capability. Typical operations of the programmable logic are I and Q detection further bandpass filtering and decimation of the sample rate specific signal detection and memory storage. The programmable digital signal processing DSP stage may be comprised of a number of programmable digital signal processors that can further process the signals from the programmable logic stage. Examples of the signal processing that are performed by the DSPs are detection demodulation equalization and location processing. The control processor may control and coordinate all of the resources of the SDR. The communications interface provides an interface external to the SDR to permit control of the SDR by the system controller central processor and the transfer of data.

The WASN may provide time and frequency synchronization between SDRs. Synchronization of the SDRs permits very precise time tagging of signals and events as well as the ability to implement various geolocation capabilities. A typical technique for time and frequency synchronizing two or more geometrically separated sites is via a GPS timing receiver. GPS timing receivers can provide very good time and frequency synchronization performance when each GPS timing receiver in the WASN can receive signals from four or more GPS satellites. GPS signals are designed to illuminate the earth at a power level of approximately 130 dBm. This power level is very low and can be further attenuated by the surroundings and environment. Consequently there are many environments where a sufficient number of GPS satellite signals cannot be received and therefore one or more SDRs in the WASN may not be time and frequency synchronized with the other SDRs. This situation may be avoided through the use of multiple signals and techniques to provide time and frequency synchronization. illustrates the time and frequency synchronization unit of the SDR utilizing a diversity of techniques. Each timing receiver provides a very accurate time clock from its respective signals. In this example the signal is a periodic waveform that provides a sharp rising edge every second. The processor of the time and frequency synchronization unit receives these 1 PPS signals combines them intelligently or simply selects one if only one is available and then disciplines a reference oscillator to the signals.

The system controller central processor may control the resources of the WASN monitor the health and status of each resource and determine the location of signals using information provided by the SDRs. The system controller central processor may command the SDRs to tune to frequencies and bands and at what time and how long to collect data at the frequencies and bands. Additionally the system controller central processor may command the SDR to perform specific functions such as signal detection signal characterization and signal classification. The system controller central processor may also determine the data that will be stored in the central database.

The synchronous Wide Area Sensor Network WASN may provide the capability to monitor critical frequency channels for interference over a wide area detect when interference occurs characterize the interference and locate its source. The GPS frequency channels are an example of a critical frequency. Signals from the GPS satellites are used for a multitude of critical applications from synchronizing telecommunications networks to providing navigation for the national air traffic system including the automated landing and take off of commercial aircraft. Thus GPS signals are important to monitor and assure they are not impaired by inadvertent or intentional interference. The WASN may provide the ability to detect and locate such interference that is continuous in time or transient in nature.

Interference detection and location may begin with a priori knowledge of the signal or signals of interest. The a priori knowledge may include the frequency channels that the signals occupy and other characteristics such as its spectral characteristics e.g. spectral density function . An exemplary process for monitoring critical frequency channels for interference detecting interference and locating interference with the WASN is as follows 

The above process may be implemented across the WASN in a continuous fashion or on command to monitor critical frequencies for interference and if interference exists to locate and characterize the interference.

The WASN may be used to detect characterize and locate signals over the wide area it is deployed. This capability permits the survey and catalog of all signals over the frequency range of the SDRs. The WASN may survey and catalog legitimate signals to assure their characteristics are within required specifications. A database of legitimate signals can be compared to the results of the WASN to identify potential illegitimate signals such as unauthorized FM radio stations and video signals. The signal detection capability of the WASN may provide a map of where unlicensed white space transmitters may be located as well as the transmit power that a user can emit that would not interfere with legitimate digital TV signals.

The WASN may permit a greater level of classification of signals than previously available because the WASN is comprised of a network of time and frequency synchronized sensors dispersed about a wide geographic area. This may provide the ability to determine the location of the origin of signals. Additionally once the location is determined readily available propagation models of the environment may be utilized to provide the ability to estimate the absolute power transmitted by the signal. Thus the WASN may provide the ability classify most or all signals over the geographic area where it is deployed.

The NTP Network Time Protocol node supplies a stable time reference to the controller via a TCP IP based digital data link. The operational details of NTP can be found in RFC 778 RFC 891 RFC 956 RFC 958 and RFC 1305. Network represents an external network such as the internet providing auxiliary information to the WASN such as GPS assistance data or lists of legitimate emitters.

A second set of antenna serves the Tunable Wideband Digital Receiver . The second Antenna structure may include specialized directional antenna for Angle of Arrival signal location determination.

The Tunable Wideband Digital Receiver is preferably implemented as a software defined radio SDR . The communications interface serves to route and bridge location related and timing information to the controller over the backhaul network .

The various RF to IF stages feed a analog switch matrix allowing the SDR to select the band to be observed. The multichannel output is passed to the Analog to Digital Converter A D where multiple channels of the band limited signal is converted to a digital representation.

The first timing receiver is connected to a central processor via digital data link and an analog timing link allowing for operational messaging and timing related messages to pass between the receiver and the processor as well as allowing analog timing signals to pass from the first timing receiver to the processor.

The second timing receiver is connected to a central processor via digital data link and an analog timing link allowing for operational messaging and timing related messages to pass between the receiver and the processor as well as analog timing signals to pass from the first second receiver to the processor.

The processor is connected to a reference oscillator via data feedback control link and an analog timing link allowing for fine control of the oscillator s frequency as well as allowing analog timing signals to pass from the reference oscillator to the processor.

The processor may discipline the reference oscillator to either timing receiver to provide a time and frequency reference to the SDR depending upon which timing receiver has the better reception on their signals.

The SDR is provided the time and frequency reference via an analog timing signal timing messaging via a digital link and an analog frequency reference .

The WASN may provide the capability to measure and characterize wireless signals over a wide area in multiple dimensions. A few of these dimensions are 

The user interface for the WASN may provide user control of its resources as well as a display of its results. The above four dimensions of data may be displayed in two forms. The first is illustrated in as a contour plot of power over a range of latitude and longitude in location for a specific time as indicated by the time slider and a specific frequency and bandwidth as indicated by the frequency and bandwidth sliders. The other form is a 3 D plot of time and frequency versus power with the 2D location defined by positioning a cursor over a range of latitude and longitude as shown in .

The user interface in this example provides both input and output and uses the database facility of the WASN to store signal and location data over time. Each bar display allows the user to determine the signal power and location for an adjustable bandwidth center frequency and time span using a mouse driven point and click interface.

Applications may reside on the system controller central processor and harness the capability of the WASN to perform a number of operations. WASN applications may include 

The Interference Detection and Location application utilizes the capability of the WASN to monitor user defined critical bands channels and frequencies to detect the presence of unauthorized signals which will be defined as interference. a priori characteristics of authorized signals are utilized to assist in detecting interference. Once detected the location of the interference is determined. The results of Interference Detection and Location campaigns are stored to the database and or displayed on the user interface.

The Signal Survey application utilizes the signal detection capability of the WASN to determine the characteristics and location of all signals over the deployed area of the WASN. Results of a Signal Survey campaign are stored to the database and or displayed on the user interface.

The Unauthorized Transmitter application compares the output of a signal survey campaign to a list of authorized signals to identify potential illegal transmitters.

Spoofing signals are signals that attempt to masquerade as a valid signal in order to confuse or spoof one or more users. For example a spoofing Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS signal would attempt to fool the GNSS receiver so that the receiver determines it is in a location that it is not. The WASN detects and locates spoofing signals by acquiring and characterizing the spoofing signals. The characteristics of the spoofing signals are compared to the characteristics of the legitimate signal s and the WASN notes when there is a significant deviation. Using the example of a spoofed GNSS signal the absolute power level of this signal can be determined and if it is much greater than a legitimate GNSS signal then the signal is identified as a spoofing signal. Another method of identifying a spoofing GNSS signal is to determine that a received signal is identified with a satellite that is not currently available e.g. over the horizon . The current example of a GNSS system is the United States NavStar Global Positioning System GPS .

The Spectral Utilization application monitors the transmissions from detected signals over a significant length of time to determine the percentage of time that RF energy is being transmitted which provides a percentage occupancy metric. Additionally the percentage of time that RF energy is being transmitted quantifies the geographic coverage that this particular transmitter provides. Results of a Spectral Utilization campaign are stored to a database for archive and or displayed on the user interface.

The Unlicensed White Space application utilizes the WASN signal detection capability to identify and locate digital TV transmitters as well as estimate the transmitters transmitted power. With this information the WASN determines the power level that a white space transmitter can transmit without interfering with the authorized and licensed digital TV transmitters over the geographic area of the WASN.

In this illustrative example a deployed Wireless Location System WLS with a Location Measurement Unit LMU network with a geographically distributed network of wideband software receivers is used. Furthermore the Global Navigation Satellite System s GNSS is described as the United States NavStar Global Positioning System GPS . Other GNSS systems Galileo GLONASS Compass etc. or combinations of satellites from multiple GNSS systems may be used together with or in place of the GPS system.

The current LMU network is equipped with distinct wideband receivers for uplink and downlink localization and a GPS receiver for receiving a common clock reference. The LMU network itself is relatively protected from low power GPS jammers and ideally minimal nearby obstructions and ideally at an elevation above nearby structures.

GPS wideband CDMA signals are weak and radiate from space vehicles in polar orbit. At a GPS receiver s antenna in the open air GPS signals strength range from 130 160 dbm or about 1 10 16 watts. Given the wavelengths used reflections from the ground and surrounding structures are even further attenuated. It is the ratio of the signal power to the noise power per unit bandwidth that determines the ability to track and use each satellite. Therefore GPS jammers even unintentional ones typically transmit broadband white grey noise to increase the local noise floor and thus disrupt any local GPS receivers. To locate the jammers the problem is first to detect the jammer s and second to locate the jammers. As illustrated in the wireless communications system comprises cells distributed to provide coverage over the geographic service area. Radio equipment for the communications network is housed in cell sites co located with the SDR receivers providing the SDR network with geographic distribution and shared facilities and antenna mounts. The GNSS system the GPS system in this example is shown in with accompanying radio broadcasts.

The GPS jammer transmits the jamming radio signal that propagates over an area determined by the transmit power and ground clutter. The propagation pattern may also be shaped by a directional transmission antenna.

Using known methods TruePosition s GPS receiver subsystem can detect the presence of jamming and alert outside parties. Such jamming may be limited to a single LMU or a group of LMUs. Known non military GNSS jammers have ranges from 10 s of meters to 10 s of kilometers but are likely to be relatively low powered portable devices.

In order to detect an intentional or unintentional source of GNSS jamming the LMU can maintain a baseline Signal to Noise Ratio SNR over a complete cycle of visible GPS satellites. When a threshold SNR is crossed a jammer location event can be initiated.

For small and or low powered GNSS jammers location of the GNSS jammer may be determined with techniques such as time of arrival TOA or power of arrival POA based ranging or TDOA or AOA depending upon the transmit power the RF environment and duration of the signal. Modifications to the current LMU GPS receiver antenna or replacement of the GPS receiver by a wideband SDR may be used to enable the GPS jammer receiver. For large scale GNSS jamming events the affected LMUs can be plotted and the center of gravity of the LMU coverage area can be determined as the jammer location. LMUs can be selected for TDOA and or AOA location determination based on a preliminary TOA or POA based location. LMUs can further be selected based on the location technology deployed and the power and bandwidth of the jamming signal s in order to provide a more accurate location of the jammer.

If an LMU is located near a jammer and loses its GPS signal the LMU can nevertheless be potentially used to collect the jammer s transmitted reference signal even if the LMU cannot be used as a cooperator. Using downlink beacon monitoring for timing or messaging from the network for coarse timing a reference signal can be collected compressed and distributed to cooperating LMUs that have good timing references.

For general call location determination the technique of using an LMU that does not have accurate timing for detecting and demodulating the reference signal can still be used. Such an LMU would not be used as a cooperator since its timing is not accurate enough for location processing. However through downlink monitoring and or network timing the LMU can be used for detection and demodulation of the jammer s transmitted reference signal.

In the case when locating a GNSS jamming source a TDOA or AOA location may be performed. Assuming that the GNSS jamming signal is a type of noise source that is changing and is always on an LMU or similar device can collect a sample of the signal at a specific time interval. The data may be compressed and sent to cooperating LMUs to perform a correlation and determine a location.

In the case where the system is locating a jamming source that is a clean tone or series of tones and not changing over time the change in SNR of the GPS signal from its baseline SNR at all of the cooperating LMUs can be used to calculate a location based on the power level affect of SNR at each affected LMU site similar to the process of calculating a TDOA location. Instead of time difference of arrival the power gradient POA or PDOA of the jamming signal may be used.

In another illustrative example the geographically distributed LMU network with its co located wideband and GPS receivers can be used to locate GNSS spoofers in accordance with the present disclosure.

GNSS spoofing generally involves a transmitter mimicking GNSS satellite transmissions typically at a higher power then delivered by the space vehicle at receiver elevation. In some cases identification information of space vehicles not in view e.g. over thehorizon of the receiver can be used to mimic the space vehicle for spoofing.

When the spoofer is mimicking GNSS satellite transmissions the distributed receiver network allows for detection of the spoofing transmitter by the increase in signal power of the spoofing signal.

In the case where identification information of space vehicles not in view of the receiver is used to mimic the space vehicle the addition of a satellite not predicted to be available due to orbital mechanics can be detected.

In both cases the wideband spoofing signal can be used to determine the location of the spoofing transmitter via PDOA TOA TDOA AoA or hybrid techniques.

As described in common assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 948 244 Autonomous Configuration of a Wireless Location System incorporated herein by reference the wideband downlink receivers of the LMU network can be used to detect identify and locate GSM CDMA CDMA 2000 and UMTS wireless communications systems via base station beacon transmissions. In the Autonomous Configuration application new base stations can be determined as well as changes to base station identification and frequency allotments.

A rogue Base Transceiver Station BTS also called an IMSI catcher is described in European Patent EP1051053 Method for identifying a mobile phone user or for eavesdropping on outgoing calls and in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 996 230 Acquiring Identity Parameters by Emulating Base Stations. As described a rogue BTS simulates a wireless network and mimics a base station belonging to the local wireless communications network by transmitting a beacon belonging to an already existing base station. Using the detection identification and location capabilities of the LMU network of geographically distributed receivers and the Serving Mobile Location Center SMLC as the controller the duplicative mimicked base station beacons can be detected identified and located.

The SDR receivers in this example are co located in the close neighboring and proximate cells. Having in the past already detected identified located and stored the close neighboring and proximate cells the SDR receivers may detect the mimic beacon and identify a rogue BTS. The SDR network is tuned to locate the rogue BTS and information regarding the rogue BTS is delivered to the user interface for analysis and action.

In an example use of the WASN is depicted. In this example sensor receivers are distributed over a geographic area served by a wireless communications or broadcast system. At disparate times interfering signals are detected and located. depicts a resulting user interface display. On the map display the sources of the aperiodic interfering signals are displayed geographically . The time and duration of the interference is displayed on the time bar display with interfering events shown graphically as . The spectral bar displays the distribution of power over frequency for event . The compass rose is grayed out showing that no heading is available for event . The speed indicator indicates a speed of zero which together with the compass rose indicates that event was stationary over the time duration .

Any of the above mentioned aspects can be implemented in methods systems computer readable media or any type of manufacture. The term circuitry used through the disclosure can include specialized hardware components. In the same or other embodiments circuitry can include microprocessors configured to perform function s by firmware or switches. In the same or other example embodiments circuitry can include one or more general purpose processing units and or multi core processing units etc. that can be configured when software instructions that embody logic operable to perform function s are loaded into memory e.g. RAM and or virtual memory. In example embodiments where circuitry includes a combination of hardware and software an implementer may write source code embodying logic and the source code can be compiled into machine readable code that can be processed by the general purpose processing units.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite disk scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or universal serial bus USB . A display or other type of display device can also be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the display computers typically include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers. The system of also includes a host adapter Small Computer System Interface SCSI bus and an external storage device connected to the SCSI bus .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be another computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node a virtual machine and typically can include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in can include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer can be connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can typically include a modem or other means for establishing communications over the wide area network such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external can be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are examples and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. Moreover while it is envisioned that numerous embodiments of the invention are particularly well suited for computer systems nothing in this document is intended to limit the disclosure to such embodiments.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the systems and or processes via examples and or operational diagrams. Insofar as such block diagrams and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof.

While particular aspects and embodiments of the invention described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the inventions described herein.

