---

title: Systems and methods for managing user reputations in social networking systems
abstract: To determine and quantify the reputations of users within a social network. In an embodiment, a social networking system determines at least one category associated with a first account of a social networking system. The social networking system determines a first reputation score for the first account in the at least one category. The category may represent subject matter in which a user of the first account has an interest. The first reputation score may be based on content posted by the first account. The first reputation score may be adjusted based on an activity and the scores of others.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09424612&OS=09424612&RS=09424612
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09424612
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120802
---
The present invention relates to the field of social networking. More particularly the present invention provides a technique for determining and quantifying the reputations of the users of a social network.

Internet social networks have become a ubiquitous phenomenon. Social networks allow an internet user to create an account and a user profile often for free and interact with other users of the social network. A social network user can gain access to the profile of another user by requesting to add him or her as a friend. Once approved the friendship typically gives both users access to each other s profiles and the content posted on them. Friends posts may appear as news stories in each other s news feeds and friends can usually comment on each other s news stories. Social network users typically seek to assemble a group of friends or followers with whom they interact. Frequently most information on a user s profile is only accessible to the user s friends.

As the users of social network generate content and engage in activity they come to be perceived by other users in certain ways. Some users may generate content that is seen as insightful or interesting. Other users may generate content that is seen as inane or irrelevant. Users may generate content and engage in activity that reflects their interests. Thus a user s reputation amongst his fellow users may be based on the content he generates and the activity he engages in. Users may be perceived positively or negatively by fellow users or they may come to be known as experts or enthusiasts in certain fields. In addition users may be likely to form friendships with like minded users who share their views and interests.

To determine and quantify the reputations of users within a social network a social networking system determines at least one category associated with a first account of a social networking system. The social networking system determines a first reputation score for the first account in the at least one category.

In an embodiment the category may represent subject matter in which a user of the first account has an interest. The category may be determined based on web browsing history of the first account or on interaction of the first account with a website. The category may further be based on correlation of the website with one of a plurality of selected categories. The website may be integrated at least in part with the social networking system. The website may be published by the social networking system.

In an embodiment the first reputation score may be based on content posted by the first account or on a semantic analysis of content associated with the first account. The first account may be associated with a reputation score for each of a plurality of categories. The first reputation score may be determined by setting the first reputation score to a value based on data external to the social networking system. The first account may be associated with the first reputation score in a first category and a second reputation score in a second category.

In an embodiment the first reputation score and the second reputation score may have different values. The first reputation score may be adjusted based on an activity. The second reputation score may also be adjusted based on the activity wherein the first reputation score and the second reputation score are adjusted differently. The second reputation score may be maintained based on the activity. A second reputation score of a second account may be adjusted based on the first reputation score of the first account. A third reputation score of a third account may be adjusted based on the second reputation score of the second account.

Many other features and embodiments of the invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the following detailed description.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only wherein the figures use like reference numerals to identify like elements. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated in the figures may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

The user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and can transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a device having computer functionality such as a smart phone a tablet a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone etc. The user device is configured to communicate via the network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . The user device is configured to communicate with the external system and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using wired and or wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA GSM LTE digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML and extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

In one embodiment the user device may display content from the external system and or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the external system and from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the external system and the social networking system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data. Additionally the markup language document may include JavaScript Object Notation JSON data JSON with padding JSONP and JavaScript data to facilitate data interchange between the external system and the user device . The browser application on the user device may use a JavaScript compiler to decode the markup language document .

In one embodiment the user device also includes one or more cookies including data indicating whether a user of the user device is logged into the social networking system which may enable customization of the data communicated from the social networking system to the user device .

The external system includes one or more web servers including one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The external system is separate from the social networking system . For example the external system is associated with a first domain while the social networking system is associated with a separate social networking domain. Web pages included in the external system comprise markup language documents identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content.

The social networking system comprises one or more computing devices storing a social network or a social graph including a plurality of users and providing users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. Users may join the social networking system and then add connections to any number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system .

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking systems based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user and friend depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral two way or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees of separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks where networks here refer not to physical communication networks but rather social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system . These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on a social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in the external system separate from the social networking system coupled to the social networking system via the network .

The social networking system is also capable of linking a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as external systems or other entities through an API or other communication channels. The social networking system generates and maintains the social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph may represent an entity that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. The social graph may include various types of nodes. Examples of types of nodes include users non person entities content items web pages groups activities messages concepts and any other things that can be represented by an object in the social networking system . An edge between two nodes in the social graph represents a particular kind of connection or association between the two nodes which may result from node relationships or from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. For example when a first user identifies a second user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and a second node representing the second user. As various nodes relate or interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the relationships and interactions.

The social networking system also includes user generated content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information images such as photos videos links music or other similar data and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party. Content items are represented as objects in the social networking system . Each instance of a user posting or creating a content item generates a news story which is visible to the user s friends or followers within their respective news feeds. In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels. Such communication increases the interaction of users with each other and increases the frequency with which users interact with the social networking system .

The social networking system includes a web server an API request server a user profile store a connection store an action logger an activity log an authorization server an account creation module a reputation management module and an authenticity detection module . In an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may include additional fewer or different components for various applications. Other components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles and the like are not shown so as to not obscure the details of the system.

The user profile store maintains user profiles including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like that has been declared by users or inferred by the social networking system . This information is stored in the user profile store such that each user is uniquely identified. The social networking system also stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. Connections with other nodes in the social networking system such as non person entities buckets cluster centers images interests pages external systems concepts and the like are also stored in the connection store .

The social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact. To maintain this data the user profile store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s profile. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system and the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user profile and begins to populate the fields of the user profile with information provided by the user.

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to external systems or connections to other entities. The connection store may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting to regulate access to information about the user. In an embodiment of the invention the user profile store and the connection store may be implemented as a federated database.

Data stored in the connection store the user profile store and the activity log enables the social networking system to generate the social graph that uses nodes to identify various objects and edges connecting nodes to identify relationships between different objects. For example if a first user establishes a connection with a second user in the social networking system user profiles of the first user and the second user from the user profile store may act as nodes in the social graph. The connection between the first user and the second user stored by the connection store is an edge between the nodes associated with the first user and the second user. Continuing this example the second user may then send the first user a message within the social networking system . The action of sending the message which may be stored is another edge between the two nodes in the social graph representing the first user and the second user. Additionally the message itself may be identified and included in the social graph as another node connected to the nodes representing the first user and the second user.

In another example a first user may tag a second user in an image that is maintained by the social networking system or alternatively in an image maintained by another system outside of the social networking system . The image may itself be represented as a node in the social networking system . This tagging action may create edges between the first user and the second user as well as create an edge between each of the users and the image which is also a node in the social graph. In yet another example if a user confirms attending an event the user and the event are nodes obtained from the user profile store where the attendance of the event is an edge between the nodes that may be retrieved from the activity log . By generating and maintaining the social graph the social networking system includes data describing many different types of objects and the interactions and connections among those objects providing a rich source of socially relevant information.

The web server links the social networking system to one or more user devices and or one or more external systems via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java JavaScript Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The API request server allows one or more external systems and user devices to access information from the social networking system by calling one or more APIs. The API request server may also allow external systems to send information to the social networking system by calling APIs. The external system in one embodiment sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the external system via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user such as the user s connections that have logged into the external system and communicates the collected data to the external system . In another embodiment the user device communicates with the social networking system via APIs in the same manner as external systems .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the activity log with information about user actions enabling the social networking system to discover various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another node on the social networking system is associated with each user s profile through information maintained in the activity log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social networking system that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user posting an image attempting to post an image or other actions interacting with another user or another object. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in the activity log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the activity log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the activity log . The activity log may be referred to as an action log.

Additionally user actions may be associated with concepts and actions that occur within an entity outside of the social networking system such as an external system that is separate from the social networking system . For example the action logger may receive data describing a user s interaction with an external system from the web server . In this example the external system reports a user s interaction according to structured actions and objects in the social graph.

Other examples of actions where a user interacts with an external system include a user expressing an interest in an external system or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses an external system or a web page within the external system a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with an external system a user attending an event associated with an external system or any other action by a user that is related to an external system . Thus the activity log may include actions describing interactions between a user of the social networking system and an external system that is separate from the social networking system .

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external systems or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user profile information like profile photo phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The privacy setting specification may be provided at different levels of granularity. For example the privacy setting may identify specific information to be shared with other users. For example the privacy setting identifies a work phone number or a specific set of related information such as personal information including profile photo home phone number and status. Alternatively the privacy setting may apply to all the information associated with the user. The specification of the set of entities that can access particular information can also be specified at various levels of granularity. Various sets of entities with which information can be shared may include for example all friends of the user all friends of friends all applications or all external systems . One embodiment allows the specification of the set of entities to comprise an enumeration of entities. For example the user may provide a list of external systems that are allowed to access certain information. Another embodiment allows the specification to comprise a set of entities along with exceptions that are not allowed to access the information. For example a user may allow all external systems to access the user s work information but specify a list of external systems that are not allowed to access the work information. Certain embodiments call the list of exceptions that are not allowed to access certain information a block list . External systems belonging to a block list specified by a user are blocked from accessing the information specified in the privacy setting. Various combinations of granularity of specification of information and granularity of specification of entities with which information is shared are possible. For example all personal information may be shared with friends whereas all work information may be shared with friends of friends.

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends external systems and or other applications and entities. The external system may need authorization from the authorization server to access the user s more private and sensitive information such as the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user the external system an application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user.

As the users of a social network generate content and activity they may come to be perceived by their fellow users in certain ways. This perception may be positive or negative. In this regard social networking communities are similar to communities in real life users who make insightful observations generate content that others find interesting and are active participants in the community may come to be highly regarded by their peers. Conversely users who do not contribute positively to the discourse of the community do not generate interesting content or do not participate in the community may come to be perceived negatively or ignored by their peers. Those who are highly regarded may be sought out by their peers for advice information or recommendations on a subject in which they have demonstrated expertise.

Social networks can be distinguished from real life communities by many characteristics for example the preservation and archival of all activity in electronic form and the regulation of the community by an administrative entity. Unlike a real life community in a social network an activity is readily recorded and the operator of the social network has potential access to activities in which members of the social network have been engaged. These characteristics may be leveraged to quantify and publicize the reputation of a user in his social network. For example a user may come to be known among certain friends as a resident expert on cameras. The user may acquire this reputation by regularly creating camera related content posting reviews on cameras commenting on friends camera related threads or through feedback from others. The social networking system may quantify and publicize the user s reputation as a camera expert to all of his friends or to the social network at large. This functionality allows users who do not frequently interact with the camera expert or his friends to learn of the camera expert s reputation and benefit from his expertise. Alternatively the user may acquire a negative reputation if he frequently posts content that is seen as irrelevant or inane. For example a user who frequently posts camera related content that is viewed as unhelpful misleading or incorrect may come to be seen by his fellow users as an unreliable or untrustworthy source of information on cameras. The social networking system may determine a user s reputation by seeking feedback from other users such as prompts to rate another user s reputation in a particular field or ballots asking users to identify who among them has the best reputation in a particular field. Thus an automated process that quantifies and continuously updates a user s reputation from the time that his account was created can allow the social networking system to assist users in identifying friends who post insightful content or have expertise in certain fields subjects topics or areas of interest.

Automated quantification of a user s reputation can also facilitate the detection of accounts that are created in violation of the policies of the social networking system . The operator of the social networking system may have certain policies in place that limit who may create an account and specify the legitimate purposes for which an account may be created and used. For example an operator of the social networking system may require that a user create an account only under her true identity. Users may thus be prohibited from creating accounts under aliases or for the purpose of impersonating other people. Similarly the operator of the social networking system might also have a policy prohibiting users from creating accounts for marketing purposes. Though the operator of the social networking system might permit businesses to use the services of the social networking system for marketing purposes it may restrict these activities to certain types of accounts that are reserved for businesses and organizations. The operator of the social networking system may wish to keep individual accounts free of marketing or promotional activities. In addition the operator of the social networking system may limit users to one account per person. Though a legitimate user may wish to keep multiple accounts for purposes that are not malicious or disruptive the operator of the social networking system might wish to prohibit this behavior in order to minimize abuse and preserve the resources of the social networking system . Thus a fake account may be any account that was created in violation of the policies that regulate use of the social networking system .

According to an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may implement verification procedures during the account creation phase. The social networking system may transmit a new account registration form for creating an account on the social network to a user. The form may request at least a valid email address from the user. The user may complete the form on a desktop PC a laptop PC a tablet or a smartphone. Any device or platform may be used. The user may complete the form and the form data may be transmitted to the social networking system . The social networking system may then transmit a challenge response test to the user. The challenge response test may be a CAPTCHA script a simple trivia question a request to enter a certain date or any other means of verifying that the form was completed by a human being and not by an automated script. Any challenge response test may be used. The social networking system may receive the completed form and the response to the challenge response test from the user and verify the validity of the user s response to the challenge response test. After verifying the validity of the user s response to the challenge response test the social networking system may send an email to the provided email address containing a verification link. The social networking system may receive a page request originating from the verification link indicating that the email has been opened and the link has been clicked. The social networking system may then activate the newly created account. According to one embodiment the account validation procedures may be performed by the account creation module of the social networking system .

Despite the use of measures such as email verification links and challenge response tests it still can be difficult to prevent users from creating fake accounts. Although email verification links can be used to confirm that an email address indeed belongs to the user who provided it and to prevent people from using the same email address to create multiple accounts the operator of the social networking system may find it difficult to ensure that two different email addresses used to create two different accounts actually belong to two different people. Similarly the use of challenge response tests may prevent people from using automated bots to rapidly create multiple accounts but they do not prevent people from creating fake accounts manually. The operator of the social networking system may attempt to detect abuse by implementing IP address filtering but this may block or hinder the activities of legitimate users and can be circumvented by users of fake accounts.

The operator of the social networking system may theoretically adopt additional measures to prevent the creation of fake accounts but these may significantly hinder adoption. For example the operator of the social networking system may require new users to verify their identity. However such a policy may make it substantially more difficult to create new accounts. The operator of the social networking system may employ human beings to monitor every registration and flag suspicious new accounts however this may be prohibitive for social networks with hundreds of millions of users and hundreds of thousands of new registrations per day. The operator of the social networking system may provide options for legitimate users to flag or report other users whose accounts they suspect are fake but the degree to which users utilize such functionality may vary and the potential for abuse is significant e.g. users reporting other legitimate users as fake due to malice disputes or rivalries . Thus an automated process that quantifies and continuously updates a user s reputation and the likelihood that the user s account is authentic from the time that his account was created would enable the operator of the social networking system to detect and take action against fake accounts.

According to an embodiment the reputation of an account user and the authenticity of the account may be modeled by the social networking system as at least one score. This score may be represented as a single value that initially encompasses both reputation and authenticity. Upon account creation the score may be set to a neutral value indicating that the social networking system does not have enough information to determine whether the account is authentic or a fake. The score may be increased or decreased based on the activity of the account user within the social networking system as well as the activities of friends of the user. According to another embodiment reputation and authenticity can be modeled as a spectrum on which extremely small values correspond to accounts that are highly likely to be fake whereas large values correspond to accounts that are not only highly likely to be authentic but whose users are highly regarded by other users in some respect. According to yet another embodiment once the user s score satisfies or exceeds a threshold value the score may split into a series of reputation scores denoting the user s reputation in a variety of categories. Each category may correspond to a different field subject topic or area of interest. For example a new user may gradually boost her account score by engaging in activity related to cameras and sushi. She may regularly comment on camera related threads have frequent check ins at sushi restaurants and regularly post reviews of new cameras and sushi restaurants. After her score crosses a threshold value indicating that her account is most likely authentic her score may split into two separate scores representing her reputation for expertise in cameras and sushi respectively. According to an embodiment if the user s score decreases past some threshold value the social networking system may flag it as possibly fake and take responsive action. In addition to authenticity scores and reputation scores other types of scores are also possible. For example according to an embodiment scores relating to different types of spam sent by an account may be determined as described herein. Spam may include commercial spam or low quality content transmitted or posted by an account. As another example according to an embodiment positive scores relating to education level political affiliations and other personal demographic categorizations associated with a user of an account also may be determined. Any type of score may be determined adjusted and otherwise managed by the social networking system according to the embodiments described herein.

According to an embodiment of the invention each account may have separate scores for account authenticity and reputation in various categories. Upon creation a new account may have scores that are set to neutral values and or zero for each of the account authenticity and reputation categories. As the social networking system receives activities and content associated with the account the social networking system may determine which category the activity pertains to and modify the corresponding score for that category. According to one embodiment the social networking system may modify the account authenticity score based on any activity then modify a reputation score only if it determines that the activity pertains to a particular category. In this embodiment some types of activities may result in no change to any of the user s reputation scores. This is particularly true if the activity is routine such as a friend request or the tagging of a photo or if the activity is not category specific.

At block the social networking system adjusts the account s authenticity score based on the activity. At block the social networking system determines if the account has met an inauthenticity e.g. fakeness criterion. The criterion may be a threshold against which the authenticity score is compared. If the account has met an inauthenticity criterion at block the social networking system flags the account as a potential fake. At block the social networking system takes some action against the account. The action may range from simply placing the account on an enhanced monitoring list to outright termination. Any action may be used. If the account has not met an inauthenticity criterion the process proceeds to block . At block the social networking system determines if the activity pertains to any category. If the activity pertains to a category then at block the social networking system determines the category. A category may correspond to a particular subject field topic or area of interest. If the activity does not pertain to any category the process returns to block and awaits the receipt of an activity associated with the account.

At block the social networking system determines if the activity is a reputation boosting activity. If the activity is a reputation boosting activity then at block the social networking system increases the reputation score of the account for the category. The process then returns to block and awaits the receipt of an activity associated with the account. If at block the activity is not a reputation boosting activity the process proceeds to block and determines if the activity is a reputation diminishing activity. If the activity is a reputation diminishing activity then at block the social networking system decreases the reputation score of the account for the category. The process then returns to block and awaits the receipt of an activity associated with the account. If at block the activity is not a reputation diminishing activity then the process returns to block and awaits the receipt of an activity associated with the account. According to one embodiment the process of may be performed either partially or entirely by the reputation management module or the authenticity detection module .

According to one embodiment of the invention the social networking system may maintain a series of tiers on which user accounts are kept based on their scores. A newly registered account may initially be placed on authenticity or reputation tiers that include users about whom the social networking system does not have enough information to determine authenticity or reputation respectively. The various tiers may correspond to varying levels of certainty that the account is authentic or a fake or varying levels of interest and expertise in different fields. The upper and lower limits of a tier may correspond to score thresholds described in connection with any of the embodiments disclosed herein. In one embodiment the tiers may be of two types authenticity tiers and reputation tiers. The authenticity tiers may include a neutral tier for newly created accounts and others about whom the social networking system does not have enough information a tier for accounts the social networking system has determined are likely to be fake a tier for accounts the social networking system has determined are indeed fake and slated for deactivation a tier for accounts the social networking system has determined are likely to be authentic and a tier for accounts the social networking system has determined are indeed authentic. The reputation tiers may include a tier for accounts belonging to users who have an interest in a particular field a tier for accounts belonging to users who have expertise in a particular field and a tier for accounts belonging to users who have mastered a particular field. Any suitable type of tier or combination of tiers may be used. As a user engages in activity the social networking system may take action in relation to his account by moving it to an adjacent tier when the authenticity or reputation score of the account satisfies a criterion.

At block the social networking system receives at least one activity associated with the account. The activity may be the addition of a friend a status update the uploading of a profile picture a comment or any other type of activity. The activity may originate from the account or from a friend s account such as the removal of a photo tag by a user of the friend s account that had been applied by a user of the account. At block the social networking system adjusts the account authenticity score based on the activity. At block the social networking system determines whether based on the account authenticity score the account has met an upper criterion relative to its current authenticity tier. The upper criterion may represent a value indicative of an account that is more likely to be authentic. If the account has met an upper criterion relative to its current authenticity tier then at block the social networking system promotes the account to the next higher authenticity tier. The process then proceeds to block . If at block the account has not met an upper criterion relative to its current authenticity tier then at block the social networking system determines whether based on the account authenticity score the account has met a lower criterion relative to its current authenticity tier. The lower criterion may represent a value indicative of an account that is less likely to be authentic. If the account has met a lower criterion relative to its current authenticity tier then at block the social networking system demotes the account to the next lower authenticity tier. The process then proceeds to block . If at block the account has not met a lower criterion relative to its current authenticity tier then the process proceeds to block . In blocks and the upper criterion and the lower criterion may be thresholds against which the authenticity score is compared.

At block the social networking system determines whether the activity pertains to any category. A category may correspond to a particular subject field topic or area of interest. If the activity does not pertain to any category then the process returns to block and awaits the receipt of an activity associated with the account. If the activity pertains to a category then at block the social networking system determines the category. At block the social networking system adjusts the reputation score of the account for the category based on the activity. At block the social networking system determines whether the account has met an upper criterion relative to its current reputation tier. If the account has met an upper criterion relative to its current reputation tier then at block the social networking system promotes the account to the next higher reputation tier. The process then returns to block and awaits the receipt of an activity associated with the account. If at block the account has not met an upper criterion relative to its current reputation tier then at block the social networking system determines whether the account has met a lower criterion within its current reputation tier. If the account has met a lower criterion relative to its current reputation tier then at block the social networking system demotes the account to the next lower authenticity tier. The process then returns to block and awaits the receipt of an activity associated with the account. If at block the account has not met a lower criterion relative to its current reputation tier then the process returns directly to block and awaits the receipt of an activity associated with the account. In blocks and the criterion may be a threshold against which the reputation score is compared. According to one embodiment the process of may be performed either partially or entirely by the reputation management module and the authenticity detection module .

According to an embodiment reputation and authenticity scores for an account may be determined or adjusted by formulae incorporating a variety of different attributes or considerations. These attributes may include for example the account user s number of friends the account user s email address whether the email address was imported from the contact list of another user or the contents of the user s cookie. Because many of the attributes may change as the social networking system receives activities and content associated with the account the account scores may be continually updated. This may be done in real time with each activity after a set number of activities or at regular time intervals. Any pattern or schedule for updating the user s scores may be used. According to one embodiment certain types of activities may cause an account score to be computed dynamically e.g. the account score is re calculated every time particular types of activities are received by the social networking system . For example an account score may be re calculated each time the social networking system receives login credentials corresponding to the account. This may occur to ensure that the account score is up to date while the account user is actively engaged within the social network. Similarly the untagging by another user of a photo originally tagged by the account user flagging by another user of a post by the account user as spam the rejection by another user of a friend request sent by the account user and reporting by another user of an account associated with the user may trigger the affected account score to be re calculated. These types of activities may be indicative that the account may be fake. Any activity or combination of activities may trigger a user s score to be re calculated.

In the illustrated embodiment each variable has an associated importance value and reliability value . The importance value represents the significance or weight of a variable in determining the authenticity or reputation score of an account. Not every type of activity is equally indicative of account authenticity or reputation. Some types of activities have a higher correlation with fake accounts or expertise in a particular category than others. In the illustrated example the variable NumRejectedFriendRequests has a very high importance value because accounts whose friend requests are declined may very likely be fake.

Similarly the reliability value denotes how likely the variable is to accurately convey information about the account. Often times information cannot be determined to a level of absolute certainty. This is particularly true for information sources that are external to the social networking system . For example a variable RegistrationIP denoting the IP address from which the account was registered has a relatively low reliability value associated with it. This is because IP addresses can easily be spoofed and the IP data received by the social networking system may not accurately represent a user s actual IP address. The importance value and reliability value for each variable may be determined by the operator of the social networking system through research and analysis of trends within the social networking system . Any suitable process for determining the importance value and reliability value may be used. According to one embodiment the importance value and reliability value may correspond to the weight given to a variable in the formula or model used to determine user scores. According to another embodiment the importance values and the reliability values may be expressed quantitatively e.g. as percentages real numbers etc. and qualitatively e.g. as high low good bad neutral etc. . According to yet another embodiment the importance value and the reliability value may be combined into one value.

According to another embodiment of the invention a user account s scores may be determined in part by the scores of the user s friends accounts. The scores of the user s friends accounts may be particularly useful for detecting fake accounts. An assumption underlying this embodiment is that the accounts of friends of legitimate users are also likely to be legitimate and that users of legitimate accounts are likely to have friends with legitimate accounts. Analogously the accounts of friends of fake users are likely to be fake and users of fake accounts are likely to have friends with fake accounts. According to one embodiment the authenticity score and reputation score of an account i may be calculated according to the formula Sum of all scores of friends of account number of friends of account

This approach can be particularly useful in detecting sub networks of fake accounts. Often users who seek to use the social networking system for purposes that violate the policies of the social networking system policies will act in groups by creating multiple accounts and friend ing each other. This creates the appearance of legitimacy because if a user with no friends begins engaging in activity such as interactions with legitimate users her account is more likely to be reported as fake to the operator of the social networking system . Having a list of friends may minimize the possibility of a user s account being reported as fake. Thus according to an embodiment of the invention the social networking system may periodically adjust the authenticity score of an account by incorporating the scores of friend accounts. If a sub network is detected i.e. a group of accounts whose only friendships are with each other and none or few of whom are friends with an account not in the group the operator of the social networking system may conclude that all of the accounts are fake.

According to one embodiment of the invention a reputation score of an account may also be determined in part by the reputation scores of friend accounts. This embodiment may be useful for users who wish to find other users of the social network with particular interests or expertise in certain fields. For example user Jane Doe is a connoisseur of steak. Due to her multiple check ins at steakhouses and frequent posts of steak related content her account gradually earns a high reputation score in a category corresponding to steak expertise on the social networking system . Because of the high steak reputation score of her account the steak reputation scores of her friends accounts also increase even if they themselves have not posted any steak related content. User Jeff Smith is seeking a recommendation for a good steakhouse and uses a search function to identify users within his group of friends whose accounts have high steak reputation scores. Jane Doe and Jeff Smith are not friends but they share a common friend John Doe. Because Jane Doe s steak related activity has caused the steak reputation score of her friend John Doe s account to increase John Doe appears in Jeff Smith s search results. Jeff Smith reaches out to John Doe and asks for a steakhouse recommendation and John Doe may respond by introducing Jeff Smith to his friend Jane Doe resulting in a new friendship.

According to an embodiment of the invention the effect of an activity by one user may have far reaching implications beyond that user s circle of friends. This is because accounts scores are interdependent when an account s score is modified as the result of an activity friends accounts scores are affected because they are determined in part based upon the account s score. Similarly scores of friends of the account s friends may be affected. The user s activity thus propagates through his group of friends and beyond. depicts a diagram that illustrates this propagative effect in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Diagram depicts a user i and five of his friends user a user b user c user d user e and user f whose accounts have authenticity scores x x x x x x and x respectively. Each of the users has a single account within the social networking system . User i may engage in the activity of forming a friendship with user a . If user a is a new user whose account has a very low authenticity score this may affect the authenticity score of the account of user i which in turn would affect the authenticity scores of the accounts of user b user c user d user e and user f . According to one embodiment of the invention the effect of a change in the score of the account of a friend on the score of a user account may be based on the number of degrees that separate the friend or the account user from the original activity that triggered the change. Thus the effect of activity on the authenticity scores of other accounts may gradually dissipate as it propagates through the social networking system . The social networking system may stop propagating the effect of the activity when a criterion has been met. According to one embodiment the criterion may be a threshold value against which the degrees of separation between the friends and the account in question are compared.

According to one embodiment an account may be flagged as fake even though its authenticity score remains high or has not even changed. This may occur if multiple accounts are determined to belong to the same user. As noted above many social networks may restrict users to one account per person. If the social networking system only requires a valid email address to create an account a user with an existing account may circumvent this restriction by using a separate email address to create another account. The social networking system may use tests and formulae specifically directed toward detecting multiple accounts that belong to a single user. For example according to one embodiment the social networking system may compare the friends lists of two accounts and determine that they belong to the same person because they share an unusually high number of common friends. According to another embodiment the social networking system may detect that two separate accounts are frequently accessed from the same IP address and determine that they both belong to the same person. Any technique for detecting multiple accounts may be used. After detecting that a user has multiple accounts the social networking system may flag all of the accounts as fakes and take action against them. If the user has created the accounts for malicious or prohibited purposes the operator of the social networking system may terminate all of the user s accounts. If the user has created the accounts for benign purposes the operator of the social networking system may deactivate all of the user s accounts ask her to choose one re activate the account the user has chosen and terminate the remainder.

If at block the social networking system determines that the account belongs to the same person or entity as an existing account then at block the social networking system flags the account as a fake. At block the social networking system takes some action against the account. If at block the social networking system cannot determine that the account belongs to the same person or entity as any existing account no action is taken until the social networking system receives an activity from the user at block . At block the social networking system updates the user s authenticity score. The process then returns to block . Thus with every iteration of the process the social networking system has more data associated with the account upon which to base its determination of whether the account belongs to the same user as an existing account. According to one embodiment the process of may be performed either partially or entirely by the authenticity detection module .

According to one embodiment account authenticity or reputation may be determined by information associated with the account user received from data sources. These data sources may include internal or external sources or databases of trusted users. According to one embodiment the information may be used in lieu of an authenticity or reputation score. Alternatively authenticity or reputation scores may be determined exclusively on the basis of information received from a data source. In one embodiment the social networking system receives information from external sources who have data about users of the social network. Many companies operate services that verify people s reputations or trustworthiness. For example consumer credit reporting agencies such as Equifax TransUnion and Experian track people s creditworthiness. These companies maintain detailed credit histories of many people. According to one embodiment the social networking system has access to the data of a consumer credit reporting agency. Alternatively the social networking system may have a verification agreement with a consumer credit reporting agency that allows the agency to provide the social networking system with information on new users. In this embodiment a user account s authenticity score can be determined based in part on whether or not the user has a credit profile with the agency. If the name provided with a new account does not have a credit profile associated with it the social networking system may use this information to flag that account as possibly fake. According to another embodiment if the information associated with the account initially or subsequently does not match information in the credit profile the social networking system may flag the account as possibly fake. According to yet another embodiment information received from a consumer credit reporting agency may be used to adjust a reputation score for an account in a category corresponding to financial trustworthiness which may then be used to block or facilitate certain financial transactions by the account user within the social networking system .

According to one embodiment of the invention the social networking system may compare new account registrations and friend lists with data sources comprising names that the operator of the social networking system has deemed to be genuine or trustworthy. The authenticity scores of accounts belonging to such genuine or trustworthy names can be increased incrementally or increased to satisfy an authenticity threshold so that the account is temporarily or permanently deemed authentic by the social networking system . For example the operator of the social networking system may regard its own employees as reputable and trustworthy. According to one embodiment the social networking system cross checks newly created accounts with its own employee records and automatically increases the authenticity score of a new account that belongs to a current or former employee. Similarly the social networking system may increase the authenticity scores of the accounts of users who become friends with current or former employees. This is because an employee of the operator of the social networking system is unlikely to send a friend request to or accept a friend request originating from a fake account. Similarly the operator of the social networking system may have agreements with university networks and corporate networks that allow it to verify users who use university and corporate email addresses to register new accounts.

According to another embodiment of the invention the social networking system may use information from third party reputation management companies. A number of companies have emerged that provide Internet users with tools to manage their online reputations. These companies may certify to other entities that a particular user is reputable or an expert in a certain field. The social networking system may receive a certification from such a company that the user has established a reputation in a certain field and increase the reputation score of the user s account corresponding to that field. Any source of data for computing authenticity and reputation scores may be used. According to one embodiment the sources of data external to the social networking system may be used to set an initial value or a permanent value for authenticity and reputation scores that are not neutral values.

According to one embodiment of the invention content posted by a user may be evaluated for substance in order to modify the reputation score of the user s account for a category corresponding to a given field. This evaluation may be implemented by using natural language processing techniques to parse comments or articles posted by the user and semantically identify words or phrases that pertain to a particular topic or area of expertise. By using algorithms and formulae to determine the context of the user s comments the social networking system may determine whether the presence of those words or phrases indicates that the user has expertise or an interest in the field. An indication of such expertise or interest may dictate the reputation score of the user s account or may cause the reputation score of the user s account to increase to an extent commensurate with the level of such expertise or interest. The social networking system may also evaluate comments and likes of other users on content posted by the user in order to determine or increase the reputation score of the user s account. According to one embodiment users may tag their posts with labels identifying the topic or subject matter of the post. The social networking system may correlate the tag with a category in order to adjust the particular reputation score associated with the category of the accounts of the user who created the post and the users who liked or commented on it. Any suitable technique for evaluating the substance of content posted by users may be used.

According to one embodiment of the invention the social networking system may determine the reputation score of a user s account in part from his interaction with third party portals. If a user has an interest in a particular topic this may be reflected in his web browsing history. The user is likely to have expertise or an interest in a particular subject if he regularly browses websites pertaining to that subject. The social networking system may gain access to the user s browsing history through a variety of techniques. According to one embodiment the social networking system may provide an application programming interface API that allows third party portals to integrate certain functionality and content of the social networking system . For example a third party portal may allow its users to use their accounts on the social networking system to authenticate and post content within the portal. One effect of this feature is that the social networking system may track its users visits to sites that use the application programming interface of the social networking system . The social networking system may also access content such as blog comments generated by its users on sites that use its application programming interface. In certain situations the social networking system may access users browsing history through the cookies on their computer to learn of the users visits to sites that do not use the application programming interface of the social networking system or otherwise have no data sharing relationship with the operator of the social networking system . Any suitable technique for accessing the user s browsing history or content posted by users on third party portals may be used. The social networking system may process this information by determining the subject matter of sites visited by a user and the content the user generated on them and boost the reputation score of the user s account for the corresponding category.

The foregoing processes and features can be implemented by a wide variety of machine and computer system architectures and in a wide variety of network and computing environments. illustrates an example of a computer system that may be used to implement one or more of the computing devices described herein. The computer system includes sets of instructions for causing the computer system to perform the processes and features discussed herein. The computer system may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server machine or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be the social networking system the user device and the external system or a component thereof. In an embodiment of the invention the computer system may be one server among many that constitutes all or part of the social networking system .

The computer system includes a processor a cache memory and one or more executable modules and drivers stored on a computer readable medium directed to the processes and features described herein. Additionally the computer system includes a high performance input output I O bus and a standard I O bus . A host bridge couples processor to high performance I O bus whereas I O bus bridge couples the two buses and to each other. A system memory and one or more network interfaces couple to bus . The computer system may further include video memory and a display device coupled to the video memory not shown . Mass storage and I O ports couple to the bus . The computer system may optionally include a keyboard and pointing device a display device or other input output devices not shown coupled to the bus . Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer hardware systems including but not limited to computer systems based on the 86 compatible processors manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the 86 compatible processors manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor.

An operating system manages and controls the operation of the computer system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft Windows operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Other implementations are possible.

The elements of the computer system are described in greater detail below. In particular the network interface provides communication between the computer system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network a backplane etc. The mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described processes and features implemented by the respective computing systems identified above whereas the system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by the processor . The I O ports may be one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to the computer system .

The computer system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of the computer system may be rearranged. For example the cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively the cache and the processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core . Furthermore certain embodiments of the invention may neither require nor include all of the above components. For example peripheral devices coupled to the standard I O bus may couple to the high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of the computer system being coupled to the single bus. Furthermore the computer system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In general the processes and features described herein may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or series of instructions referred to as programs . For example one or more programs may be used to execute specific processes described herein. The programs typically comprise one or more instructions in various memory and storage devices in the computer system that when read and executed by one or more processors cause the computer system to perform operations to execute the processes and features described herein. The processes and features described herein may be implemented in software firmware hardware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit or any combination thereof.

In one implementation the processes and features described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by the computer system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. The foregoing modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or machine readable medium or a combination of both. For example the modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as the processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as the mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable computer readable storage medium. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via the network interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as the mass storage into the system memory and then accessed and executed by processor .

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices solid state memories floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives magnetic media optical disks e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs other similar non transitory or transitory tangible or non tangible storage medium or any type of medium suitable for storing encoding or carrying a series of instructions for execution by the computer system to perform any one or more of the processes and features described herein.

For purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the description. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In some instances modules structures processes features and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. In other instances functional block diagrams and flow diagrams are shown to represent data and logic flows. The components of block diagrams and flow diagrams e.g. modules blocks structures devices features etc. may be variously combined separated removed reordered and replaced in a manner other than as expressly described and depicted herein.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment an embodiment other embodiments one series of embodiments or the like means that a particular feature design structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of for example the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover whether or not there is express reference to an embodiment or the like various features are described which may be variously combined and included in some embodiments but also variously omitted in other embodiments. Similarly various features are described that may be preferences or requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The language used herein has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

