---

title: Input/output interface circuit with overpower protection
abstract: An interface circuit configurable in input and output modes comprises a current source; an input/output node; a diode to prevent current from flowing from the input/output node to the current source; a first switch to short-circuit the diode when closed; and a second switch to form a ground path from the input/output node when closed. In input mode, the first switch is closed and the state of a connected sensor circuit may be measured. In the output mode, the first switch is open, and the second switch may be closed to activate an output circuit. In the output mode, power dissipation may be monitored, and the diode may protect the current source and measurement node from current flowing through the output circuit. In the input mode, closing the first switch may prevent the diode from introducing measurement errors due to non-linear attenuation of perturbative AC signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08891217&OS=08891217&RS=08891217
owner: Tyco Safety Products Canada Ltd.
number: 08891217
owner_city: Concord
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20121001
---
The present application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 591 368 filed Jan. 27 2012 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to input output circuits and particularly to security system input output interfaces.

Security systems typically include a control panel with input output interface circuits for connection to one or more sensor circuits and one or more output circuits. Each sensor circuit may include a plurality of sensors each to detect a different alarm condition. Possible alarm conditions include opening of doors excessive temperatures detection of motion and the like. Each output circuit may include one or more output devices to be activated on the occurrence of certain conditions. Possible output devices may include lamps relays strobes and the like. Each sensor circuit is connected to an input interface circuit which measures parameters of the sensor circuit. Each output circuit is connected to an output interface circuit which controls operation of any output devices on the output circuit.

Input and output requirements may vary from system to system depending on system configuration and particularly on the number of sensors and the number of output devices. Some systems may have a large number of sensor circuits requiring a large number of input interfaces but relatively few output devices. Other systems may have relatively few sensors but numerous output devices such as lamps relays strobes and the like.

Given the variability of security system configurations some security system panels include input output interface circuits which are capable of functioning in both input and output modes.

Unfortunately connection to an output circuit may cause damage to components of an interface. As a result in conventional interfaces components must be isolated in output mode. Unfortunately some techniques for isolating components in output mode may introduce measurement errors in input mode. In addition over power conditions can cause damage to interface components.

Accordingly there is a need for improved I O interfaces which can be easily configured in either an input or an output mode and which have protection against damage from overpower conditions.

In accordance with an aspect of the disclosure an input output interface circuit comprises a source of electrical current an input output node a diode connected between the current source and the input output node to prevent current from flowing from the input output node to the current source a first switch interconnected to substantially short circuit the diode when closed a second switch interconnected to form a conductive path from the input output node to ground when closed.

The input input circuit is configurable in a first input mode wherein the first switch is closed and a signal at the measurement node may be used to measure the state of a sensor circuit interconnected to the input output node. The input output interface circuit is further configurable in a second output mode wherein the first switch is open and the second switch may be closed to allow current to flow from an interconnected output circuit through the input output node and the second switch to ground thereby activating the output circuit.

Conveniently in the output mode a signal at the measurement node may be used to monitor power dissipation and the diode may protect the current source and measurement node from current flowing through the output circuit. In the input mode shorting the diode by closing the first switch may avoid measurement errors due to the diode s non linear attenuation of perturbations in the form of AC signals.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention there is provided an input output interface circuit operable in first and second modes comprising a source of electrical current an input output node a diode connected between the current source and the input output node to prevent current from flowing through the input output node into the current source a first switch interconnected to substantially short circuit the diode when closed a second switch interconnected to form a conductive path from the input output node to ground when closed a measurement node between the current source and the diode for measuring a voltage at the input output node wherein in the first mode the first switch is closed and the second switch is open and in the second mode the first switch is open and the second switch may be selectively opened or closed.

In accordance with another aspect there is provided an input output interface circuit for a security system comprising a conductive path from a source of electrical current to ground an input output node in the conductive path for providing current to a sensor circuit in an input mode of the input output interface and for receiving current from an output circuit in an output mode of the input output interface a diode interposed in the conductive path between the source of electrical current and the input output node the diode preventing current from flowing through the input output node to the source of electrical current an output switch interposed in the conductive path between the input output node and ground a mode switch operable to substantially short circuit the diode in the conductive path thereby converting the input output interface circuit from the output mode in which a voltage at the anode of the diode is indicative of power dissipated by the output switch to the input mode in which a voltage at the anode of the diode is indicative of a voltage drop in the sensor circuit.

In accordance with yet another aspect there is provided an input output interface circuit for a security system comprising a source of electrical current an input output node for providing current to a sensor circuit in an input mode of the input output interface and for receiving current from an output circuit in an output mode of the input output interface a first conductive path between the source of electrical current and the input output node the conductive path passing through a diode the diode preventing current from flowing through the input output node to the source of electrical current a second conductive path from the input output node to ground the second conductive path passing through an output switch a voltage output terminal in the first conductive path between the source of electrical current and the diode a mode switch for substantially short circuiting the diode in said first current path wherein in the input mode the mode switch is closed and the voltage output terminal provides a signal indicative of a voltage drop in the sensor circuit and in the output mode the mode switch is open and the voltage output terminal provides a signal indicative of power dissipated by the output switch when the output switch is closed.

In accordance with yet another aspect there is provided a method of selectively operating an input output I O interface circuit comprising a current source an I O node and a measurement node between the current source and the I O node in one of an input mode and an output mode wherein the operating comprises in the input mode supplying electrical current from the current source to a variable resistance input circuit through the I O node and measuring the resistance of the input circuit by measuring the voltage at the measurement node and in the output mode interposing a diode between the I O node and the measurement node to prevent current from flowing from the I O node to the measurement node actuating an output circuit interconnected with the I O node by selectively closing an output switch to form a conductive path from the output circuit to ground through the I O node and the output switch.

Other aspects and features of the present invention will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon review of the following description of specific embodiments of the invention in conjunction with the accompanying figures.

Panel further includes a processing unit connected to I O interface circuits . Processing unit may be a conventional programmable controller or processor having multiple I O pins each for receiving an analog input or providing an analog or digital output to an interconnected I O interface circuit . Processing unit may include or be associated with suitable combination of persistent and random access memory to allow processing unit to be programmed to operate as described herein. Further processing unit may include one or more analog to digital converters ADC for sampling analog signals provided by I O interface circuits . Processing unit may be a processing unit dedicated to input output or may for part of another processor used to control the overall operation of panel .

Sensor circuit includes at least one sensor and has a plurality of resistive states each of which corresponds to a particular status of sensor circuit for example a particular sensed condition. Resistive states may correspond to for example TAMPER ALARM RESTORE ANTIMASKING and other states of sensor circuit . Resistors individually and collectively resistors represent the resistive states of sensor circuit and are in series with switches individually and collectively switches that may open or close in response to a sensed condition such as for example an opened door or window the presence of smoke motion or the like. For example sensor circuit may include an open door sensor and may cause resistor to be switched into sensor circuit when an associated door is opened. As required sensor circuit may include further components not shown to detect and react to a particular sensed condition. Conveniently a single sensor circuit may interconnect several sensors to panel . Resistances of resistors may be different and may be selected such that each permutation of tripped sensors in sensor circuit yields a different total resistance that may be sensed at panel . The total resistance of sensor circuit is therefore indicative of which sensors on sensor circuit are activated. Thus the total resistance of sensor circuit can be used by panel to identify the existence of alarm conditions.

As required panel may include multiple input interface circuits like I O interface circuit with each input interface feeding one or multiple sensors in a sensing circuit like sensor circuit .

Output circuit by contrast typically includes an electrical load that is actuated by panel . Output circuit may for example include an output device such as an audio transducer or piezo a light a relay or the like. Load represents such a device. Load may be powered under control of panel . Output circuit may include its own source of electrical power in the form of power source . As such power to load need not be provided by panel but provision may be controlled by panel . An output device may be activated by panel for example upon the detection of a particular condition by security system . For example panel may actuate a lamp to be turned on if a particular sensor is tripped. Alternatively panel may switch a relay which controls a thermostat or may cause an overhead door to close when a sensor is tripped. Each one of sensor circuit and output circuit is connected to an I O interface circuit on panel . Each I O interface circuit may interconnect multiple sensor circuits or output circuits to a zone within premises . As will be appreciated a control panel may include unequal numbers of I O interface circuits configured for input and output.

Conveniently to provide flexibility each I O interface circuit may be configured in either an input mode or an output mode. Sensor circuits in turn are connected to an I O interface circuit configured in input mode and output circuits are connected to an I O interface circuit configured in output mode. An I O interface circuit in input mode measures the voltage drop across an interconnected sensor circuit so that the total resistance of the sensor circuit can be determined and the state of the sensor identified. An I O interface circuit in output mode controls an interconnected output circuit. Specifically an I O interface circuit in output mode may selectively activate an output device in an interconnected output circuit by providing a path to ground from a power supply through the load .

As noted depicted control panel includes at least two such I O interface circuits and only two are depicted . However a typical panel may include an arbitrary number of such interfaces e.g. 1 8 16 or 32 or more .

I O interface circuit is configured in input mode and is connected to sensor circuit . I O interface circuit is configured in output mode and is connected to output circuit . So configured I O interface circuit provides current to sensor circuit which produces a signal indicative of the voltage at I O node . This signal is provided to processing unit which may use the signal to determine the resistance of sensor circuit and in turn the status of sensor circuit and therefore if an alarm condition exists.

I O interface circuit configured in output mode may provide a ground path for output circuit and therefore may receive current from output circuit and cause any devices on output circuit to be activated. I O interface circuit may also provide a signal to processing unit using which processing unit can monitor for overpower conditions.

An exemplary I O interface circuit is depicted in . As illustrated I O interface circuit includes a current source connected to a reference voltage at node . The reference voltage may be for example 3.3V. As will become apparent when I O interface circuit is configured for input current source may provide current to sensor circuit and when I O interface circuit is configured for output current source biases other components of I O interface circuit .

Within I O interface circuit current source is connected by way of a switch to the anode of a diode with the cathode of diode being connected to an input output I O node . Thus diode forms part of a conductive path from current source to I O node and blocks reverse flow of current from I O node into current source . An output node lies between current source and I O node . Output node is for measuring signals and provides a voltage signal to a processing unit .

A mode switch is connected in parallel with diode . Mode switch is controlled by a control signal received at input from processing unit and may be used to configure I O interface circuit for input or output. Mode switch is a normally closed switch. However in other embodiments mode switch may be normally open. I O interface circuit also includes an output transistor which lies in a conductive path from I O node to ground. Output transistor is controlled by a control signal received at input from processing unit . Output transistor may be an npn type bipolar junction transistor BST and is normally OFF. In some embodiments output transistor may instead be formed as a MOSFET or IGBT. I O interface circuit may further comprise a negative feedback resistor connected between the emitter of output transistor and ground. Inputs and also control current source by way of OR logic and switch . That is the signals from inputs are passed to OR logic with the signal from input first passing through inverter logic . The output of OR logic controls switch turning current source ON or OFF.

I O interface circuit may therefore define a conductive path from current source to ground by way of output node diode I O node output transistor and resistor . Diode is interposed in the path between current source and I O node . Output transistor is interposed in the path between I O node and ground and may selectively form or break the path to ground by turning ON or OFF.

As noted configuration of I O interface circuit in either input or output mode may be achieved by a control signal provided to mode switch . In I O interface circuit is in input mode. In input mode the control signal on input is LOW logic. Mode switch is closed short circuiting diode . The LOW signal on input also activates current source by way of inverter logic OR logic and switch . The signal on input is kept LOW. Thus output transistor is open.

I O interface circuit in input mode is connected to a sensor circuit . Current flows from current source through closed mode switch to I O node and into sensor circuit .

Output node provides a voltage signal to processing unit . The voltage signal corresponds to the voltage at I O node plus any voltage drop across mode switch . As current source produces a substantially constant current the voltage drop across mode switch may also be substantially constant. Processing unit may use the sampled voltage at output node to determine the voltage applied to sensor circuit by subtracting the voltage drop across mode switch . The total resistance of sensor circuit may thus be determined from this voltage measurement. Based on the total resistance processing unit may determine the status of sensor circuit and therefore which alarm conditions exist. Of course it is not necessary for processing unit to explicitly calculate the total resistance based on the measured voltage drop. Instead processing unit may be under program control to determine the existence of alarm conditions directly from the measured voltage drop.

Typically the voltage drop across mode switch is very small relative to the voltage drop in sensor circuit . As such processing unit may ignore the voltage drop across mode switch . That is it may approximate the voltage drop in sensor circuit to be the measured voltage.

Current source produces a DC current however sensor circuit may be susceptible to AC perturbations. AC perturbations may occur for example when AC lines come in contact with security system wiring. This may happen for example if an intrusion is attempted. Accordingly to estimate the DC voltage at output node processing unit may apply AC rejection techniques such as averaging e.g. over multiple perturbation periods or analog or digital filtering in order to determine a DC voltage at output node . Mode switch is closed in input mode to short circuit diode because of the non linear AC blocking characteristics of diode . If a current with an AC perturbation flowed backward through diode to output node the combination of nonlinear attenuation in diode and AC rejection techniques in processing unit could produce errors in the estimated DC voltage and therefore erroneous determination of the status of sensor circuit .

I O node may be interconnected with output circuit . When connected and when output transistor is turned ON a conductive path to ground runs from power source of output circuit through load and passes through I O node output transistor and resistor . When output transistor is OFF the path to ground is interrupted and current does not flow from power source through load . In this state voltage at I O node floats. When output transistor is ON current flows from power source to ground through load I O node output transistor and resistor . Output transistor therefore controls output circuit . When output transistor is ON the output device associated with load is activated. When output transistor is OFF the output device is inactive.

As the control signal at input controls output transistor it likewise controls output circuit . Processing unit may determine when it is desired to activate the device associated with load such as when a particular condition is detected.

When output transistor is OFF the voltage at I O node floats based on the voltage produced by power source . The voltage produced by power supply may be higher than the voltage at node and high enough to cause damage to current source and or to processing unit via output node . In addition reverse current flow from I O node towards output node and current source could cause undesired activation of load . Accordingly mode switch is open when I O interface circuit is configured in output mode so that diode blocks flow of current from I O node toward output node and current source .

When output transistor is closed ON output circuit is active that is current flows from power source through load to ground via output transistor and resistor . As a result power is dissipated by output transistor . The power dissipated is proportional to the collector current and the collector emitter voltage drop.

As will be appreciated output transistor may be able to dissipate only a finite amount of power without damage. Under normal conditions voltage at I O node may be very low and output transistor may operate in saturation. Output transistor may be selected such that it will not be damaged by the maximum current and voltage expected during this normal operation. However overpower conditions could arise during operation of output circuit . For example if load becomes shorted the voltage at I O node will increase. Accordingly in the event of a short in output circuit power dissipation at output transistor will surge. Because resistor acts as negative feedback the collector current may reach the limiting current and output transistor may shift from operating in saturation to operating in the active linear mode and acting as a current limiter. In this mode as the base control voltage is constant the emitter voltage at node that is the emitter voltage of output transistor is likewise constant. In the event that the voltage at I O node increases the collector emitter voltage drop of output transistor may increase to maintain a constant voltage at node and therefore a constant collector current. As will be appreciated with the collector current constant and collector emitter voltage drop elevated power dissipation of output transistor is elevated and may be damaging.

To provide protection against damaging overpower I O interface circuit allows for power dissipation to be monitored in output mode. To this end when control input goes HIGH turning output transistor ON and activating output circuit a HIGH signal is provided from OR logic to switch causing switch to close. Under normal conditions when output transistor is ON the voltage at I O node is sufficiently low that current flows from current source to ground through diode output transistor and resistor .

For a given current and a given temperature a substantially constant voltage drop occurs across diode . As current source produces a known constant current the voltage drop may be programmed into processing unit . Thus processing unit may estimate the approximate voltage at I O node by subtracting the estimated voltage drop across diode from the voltage measured at output node . The voltage drop across diode could also be measured using the signal at output node in a calibration mode by turning output transistor ON with mode switch OFF and no circuit or a known circuit connected to I O node .

Processing unit may also determine the state of output transistor . As noted power dissipation on output transistor is dependent on the product of collector current which is constant in the case of overpower and collector emitter voltage drop. The voltage drop corresponds to the voltage at I O node which processing unit may determine from the voltage measured at output node .

The resistance of load will be large relative to that of output transistor and resistor . Accordingly under normal circumstances the voltage at I O node may be relatively low even if power source produces a large voltage. However under fault conditions for example if load is substantially shorted voltage at I O node may be elevated. In such circumstances the collector emitter voltage drop and power dissipated by output transistor will increase. If voltage at I O node is above a certain threshold it may be determined that output transistor may not be operating in saturation and or may be exposed to possibly damaging overpower conditions and may be acting as a current limiter.

Accordingly processing unit may periodically or continuously monitor the approximate power dissipated by output transistor using the approximated voltage at I O node which as noted above may be used to determine the power dissipation on output transistor for a known current. As will be appreciated the limiting current may be known and is determined by the resistance of a resistor biasing the base of output transistor the control voltage presented at input and the resistance of resistor . If the measured voltage is indicative of excess power dissipation on output transistor processing unit may cause the signal on input to go LOW opening output transistor and interrupting its dissipation of power.

As depicted in mode switch may be formed as an n type power MOSFET . Conveniently diode may be formed as the internal parasitic drain to source junction body diode of MOSFET .

MOSFET acting as a switch is controlled by a reference voltage at node connected to the collector of a transistor which is in turn operated by a control signal at input . Specifically when input receives a LOW signal transistor is OFF and a high voltage from node is presented at the gate of mode MOSFET turning it ON because the gate voltage exceeds the source voltage. When input receives a HIGH signal transistor is ON and the voltage at the gate of MOSFET is pulled to ground turning it OFF. The reference voltage at node may be for example approximately 12V and is sufficiently high to present a voltage to the gate of MOSFET that is higher than the sum of the voltage at node and the maximum gate threshold voltage of MOSFET .

Output transistor is operated by a control signal at input and is ON when the control signal is HIGH and OFF when the control signal is LOW.

In input mode of I O interface circuit with LOW input signals at control input and control input MOSFET is ON and output transistor is OFF. Current source is also ON and a constant current flows from current source through the channel of MOSFET to I O node which may be connected to a sensor circuit like sensor circuit . Output node provides a voltage signal that may feed a processing unit like processing unit and which corresponds to the total voltage drop across the source to drain of MOSFET and the interconnected sensor circuit. As current source produces a substantially constant current the voltage drop across MOSFET will also be substantially constant allowing the sensor circuit voltage drop to be determined by subtracting the voltage drop across MOSFET from the voltage measured at output node .

In output mode a HIGH signal is received at input turning MOSFET OFF. I O node. may be connected to an output circuit like output circuit . A conductive path from the output circuit to ground may be selectively established by turning output transistor ON and OFF. More specifically when output transistor is OFF the path to ground is interrupted. When output transistor is turned ON current flows from the output circuit to ground through I O node output transistor and resistor . As MOSFET is off diode protects current source and output node and allows I O node to float when transistor is turned OFF.

A processing unit may further monitor power dissipation on output transistor using voltage output node . To this end current source is active in the output mode when output transistor is ON. Under normal conditions current flows from current source to I O node through diode . A constant voltage drop occurs across diode . The voltage signal from output node may be used to estimate the approximate collector voltage of output transistor by subtracting the estimated voltage drop across diode . The processing unit may then determine the approximate power dissipation on output transistor substantially as described above and in the event of excessive power dissipation may cause the signal on input to go LOW turning output transistor OFF and interrupting its dissipation of power.

Of course it is not necessary to explicitly calculate the approximate power dissipation on output transistor . Instead a processing unit may be programmed to cause the signal on input to go LOW when the voltage received from output node crosses a certain threshold.

I O interface circuit includes a voltage source rather than a current source. More specifically I O interface circuit is connected to a reference voltage at node . As in the embodiment of mode switch is formed as an n type MOSFET diode is formed as the internal parasitic drain to source junction of MOSFET . MOSFET and output transistor are controlled by input signals at inputs as in the embodiment of .

Node is connected to I O node by way of a prep type transistor resistor and MOSFET . Transistor is controlled by the control signal at input a biasing resistor and by npn type transistor which is in turn controlled by the control signal at input . Specifically transistor is ON when input receives a LOW input signal and OFF when input receives a HIGH input signal. However when a HIGH input signal is received on input and passed to the base of transistor via resistor transistor is turned ON diverting current from the base of transistor and turning it ON. In other words transistor is ON when input receives a LOW signal or when input receives a HIGH signal.

When I O interface circuit is configured in input mode LOW input signals are received at control inputs . Transistor is OFF. The reference voltage at node is much higher than the reference voltage at node and therefore biases MOSFET turning it ON. Output transistor is OFF. The LOW control signal at input also turns transistor ON allowing flow of current from node towards I O node .

Output node may provide a signal that feeds a processing unit like processing unit which corresponds to the ratio between the total voltage drop across transistor resistor and the total voltage drop across MOSFET and an interconnected sensor circuit. The difference between the sampled voltage and the reference voltage at node is substantially equal to the voltage drop across transistor and resistor . The resistance of resistor may be very large such that the voltage drop across transistor and MOSFET may be ignored. Resistor and the interconnected sensor circuit act as a resistive voltage divider. The voltage sampled at output node is a fraction of the reference voltage at node and is indicative of the ratio of the resistance of the interconnected sensor circuit and the resistance of resistor . Again the voltage drop in the sensor circuit may be determined from the voltage sampled at output node and the known resistance of resistor .

In output mode the signal at input is HIGH turning MOSFET OFF. The HIGH signal at input also turns transistor OFF preventing current flow from node to I O node . However as noted transistor may override this signal.

The control signal at input may be either HIGH or LOW. When it is LOW output transistor is OFF substantially preventing flow of current from I O node to ground. Voltage at I O node floats while diode prevents flow of current from I O node towards nodes and . Transistor is also OFF. Transistor is therefore turned OFF due to the signal on input .

When it is desired to activate an interconnected output circuit the control signal at input goes HIGH. This turns output transistor ON allowing flow of current from I O node to ground. The HIGH signal on input also turns ON transistor . This diverts current from the base of transistor turning it on and allowing current to flow from node towards I O node and ultimately to ground through output transistor and resistor .

The voltage drop between output node and I O node can be approximated as the voltage drop across parasitic diode . Accordingly from the voltage signal at output node a processing unit may estimate the voltage at I O node . As noted power dissipation on output transistor is a function of its collector current which as noted remains constant when output transistor shifts from operating in the saturation state to operating in the linear state and its collector voltage that is the voltage at I O node . Accordingly if the measured voltage is indicative of a level of power dissipation that could damage output transistor the processing unit may cause control signal to go low interrupting current flow to ground by way of output transistor .

I O interface circuit also includes a resistor and capacitor which together form an ADO anti alias filter interconnected with output node . A capacitor and a transient voltage suppressing TVS diode connected between I O node and ground to provide protection against electrostatic discharge.

Components of I O interface circuit which are the same as components of I O interface circuit depicted in are identified with the same numbers and a prime symbol. For example transistor in is the same as I O transistor in . These elements of I O interface circuit will not be described again in detail.

Schottky diode is connected in parallel with MOSFET between resistor and I O node with its anode connected to resistor and its cathode connected to I O node . Schottky diode and diode together block reverse current flow when MOSFET is OFF. A voltage drop occurs across Schottky diode in the output mode when output transistor is ON. For a given current the voltage drop across Schottky diode may be smaller than the voltage drop that would occur across diode alone. For example in I O interface circuit of the voltage drop across diode may be approximately 0.65V. In I O interface circuit the voltage drop across the parallel combination of Schottky diode and diode may be approximately 0.22V. This smaller voltage drop may allow for a wider range of measurable voltages at I O node and therefore may widen the measurable range of power dissipation on output transistor . The collector of transistor is connected with the base of output transistor the base of transistor is connected to the emitter of output transistor at node and the emitter of transistor is connected to ground. The base of output transistor is biased by applying a voltage through a biasing resistor for example 3.3V at input . For a low collector current of output transistor the voltage at node may be sufficiently low that output transistor is saturated and the base of transistor is unbiased. If the collector current of output transistor increases the emitter current may likewise increase elevating the voltage at node . At a certain point for example when the voltage at node reaches 0.65 V transistor may enter into conduction and act as a voltage divider with biasing resistor . Accordingly the base voltage of output transistor may decrease causing it to switch from saturation to active linear mode and therefore causing the voltage at node to remain constant regardless of increasing voltage at I O node . Constant voltage at node corresponds to a constant current through resistor that is a constant emitter current of output transistor and therefore a constant collector current of output transistor . In this configuration output transistor resistor transistor and biasing resistor together effectively function as a current limiter. That is when the voltage at node reaches a certain threshold for example 0.65 V they work to keep the voltage at node and the collector current of output transistor substantially constant.

Variations to the above described embodiments will be apparent to those of ordinary skill. For example mode switch MOSFET may be replaced with a P type MOSFET with corresponding changes to the control signals. Also to decrease the power dissipated on resistor an operational amplifier could be used in place of transistor could to limit the current through output transistor .

Conveniently interface circuits may be configured and operated in input and output modes simply by selectively closing or opening mode switch . While in output mode output transistor may be selectively closed to form a ground path for an interconnected output circuit. Diode isolates components of I O interface circuit thereby protecting them from damage and preventing reverse current leakage while allowing current to flow for monitoring power dissipation. While in input mode the closing of mode switch bypasses the diode to prevent it from causing measurement errors.

Of course the above described embodiments are intended to be illustrative only and in no way limiting. The described embodiments of carrying out the invention are susceptible to many modifications of form arrangement of parts details and order of operation. The invention rather is intended to encompass all such modification within its scope as defined by the claims.

