---

title: Synthesis of polyoxometalate-loaded epoxy composites
abstract: The synthesis of a polyoxometalate-loaded epoxy uses a one-step cure by applying an external stimulus to release the acid from the polyoxometalate and thereby catalyze the cure reaction of the epoxy resin. Such polyoxometalate-loaded epoxy composites afford the cured epoxy unique properties imparted by the intrinsic properties of the polyoxometalate. For example, polyoxometalate-loaded epoxy composites can be used as corrosion resistant epoxy coatings, for encapsulation of electronics with improved dielectric properties, and for structural applications with improved mechanical properties.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08853350&OS=08853350&RS=08853350
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08853350
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120925
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to epoxy thermosets and in particular to the synthesis of polyoxometalate loaded epoxy composites.

Epoxy thermosets have wide commercial importance from use in automotive medical electronics aerospace and construction. They are used as adhesives to reliably bond assemblies as encapsulants to offer environmental protection and shock mitigation and in structural composites to improve strength and reduce weight compared to traditional metal. Some applications compound epoxies with fillers to improve mechanical silica and alumina thermal silica and electrical silver properties making the epoxies more durable and reliable in specific applications. Most fillers range in size from several hundred nanometers to several microns. However over the past decade compounding epoxies with nanosized fillers has led to a new type of nanocomposite material with properties that can differ from traditional particulate filled composite materials. See Y. Sun et al. 42 3849 2004 S. Jiguet et al. 201 2289 2006 H. Zhang et al. 54 1833 2006 S. T. Knauert et al. 45 1882 2007 and Y. L. Liang and R. A. Pearson 50 4895 2009 .

However a need remains for a one part epoxy system that can provide novel epoxy nanocomposite materials.

The present invention is directed to a method of synthesis of polyoxometalate loaded epoxy comprising adding a polyoxometalate to an epoxy resin and applying an external stimulus to release the acid from the polyoxometalate and thereby catalyze the cure reaction of the epoxy resin. The polyoxometalate can comprise an isopolyacid heteropolyacid or molybdenum compound. The heteropolyacid can comprise a Keggin structure having a chemical formula of HXMO or a Dawson structure having a chemical formula HXMO wherein X is a 4A 5A element such as P or S and M is an IVB VIB transition metal such as V Nb Mo or W. The heteropolyacid can comprise a phosphotungstate silicotungstate phosphomolybdate silicomolybdate lacunary structures thereof or a transition metal organo metal and silane type substituted derivatives thereof. The polyoxometalate can be complexed with an organic base. The epoxy resin preferably has a pKgreater than 7. For example the epoxy resin can comprise N N diglycidyl 4 glycidyloxyaniline resin. For example the external stimulus comprises a photo or thermal stimulus.

As an example of the present invention a phosphotungstate PTA heteropolyacid was used to catalyze the cationic homopolymerization of a N N diglycidyl 4 glycidyloxyaniline epoxy resin to form a polyoxometalate loaded epoxy composite. The polyoxometalate is dispersable in an epoxy resin. Dispersion is driven by formation of a POM resin complex which is soluble in the resin. The acidic character of PTA enables the POM to promote cationic homopolymerization of the epoxy resin in a manner similar to other thermal latent Lewis acid catalyzed systems. As described below the cure reaction propagates through two cure regimes. A fast cure at short time is identified as propagation by an activated chain end ACE mechanism. A slow cure at long time is identified as propagation by an activated monomer AM mechanism. The activation energies for the fast and slow cure regimes agree well with other systems that have been confirmed to propagate by the ACE and AM mechanisms. The polyoxometalate remains dispersed indefinitely from dispersion of the polyoxometalate in the liquid epoxy resin to cure of the epoxy into a thermoset with no evidence of aggregation which is a common problem in the synthesis of nanocomposite materials.

Polyoxometalate loaded epoxy composites afford the cured epoxy unique properties imparted by the intrinsic properties of the polyoxometalate. Polyoxometalates are able to accept multiple electrons while maintaining their structure and are active toward cationic corrosive salts revealing a capability to neutralize these corrosive agents and offering use of polyoxometalate loaded epoxy composites in corrosion resistant epoxy coatings. See D. E. Katsoulis 98 359 1998 . Polyoxometalates also reduce the dielectric constant and the dielectric loss of polyoxometalate loaded polymers. See L. Tan et al. 21 435 2010 . This fact suggests the synthesis of epoxy potting compounds for encapsulation of electronics with improved dielectric properties over neat epoxies. Polyoxometalates also influence the mechanical and thermal properties of the cured epoxy shown by an increase in modulus and a reduction in glass transition temperature and coefficient of thermal expansion. The change in material properties can be dramatic even at low polyoxometalate loadings and can be advantageous in structural applications.

Epoxy resin systems are traditionally formulated as two part systems composed of an epoxy resin and a hardener amines and anhydrides are most common. See E. M. Petrie McGraw Hill New York 2006 . More recently one part epoxy systems have been developed that release a Lewis acid that initiates cationic homopolymerization of the epoxy resin. See P. Chabanne et al. 49 685 1993 S. J. Park et al. 39 2397 2001 Z. Yan et al. 31 484 2008 and K. Morio et al. 32 5727 1986 . Lewis acid catalyzed cationic homopolymerization relies on the release of an acidic proton to initiate the cure reaction. The Lewis acid is initially inactivated commonly by forming a complex with a second species. Upon application of an external stimulus the acid is released and promotes initiation of the cure reaction. Typical commercial systems utilize photo or thermal stimulated release of an acid to initiate the cure reaction.

The kinetics of cationic homopolymerization of epoxy resins is well established. See S. Penczek 38 1919 2000 and S. Penczek et al. 3 203 1986 . The polymerization reaction is described in terms of two competing propagation mechanisms the activated chain end ACE and activated monomer AM . The ACE mechanism is fast and propagation occurs by reaction of a tertiary oxonium ion with a glycidyl group of the epoxy resin which reforms the tertiary oxonium ion at the activated end of the propagating polymer chain Eq. 1 .

Polyoxometalates POMs are a novel class of metal oxide nanoclusters that exist between mononuclear metalates and bulk metal oxide particles. See D. L. Long 49 1736 2010 A. Proust et al. 1837 2008 and P. Gouzerh and A. Proust 98 77 1998 . POMs behave as Lewis acids and readily disassociate in polar solvents giving them a very strong Bronsted activity. See M. T. Pope In Borr s Almenar J. J. Coronado E. M ller A. Pope M. T. Eds. Kluwer Academic Publishers Dordrecht 2003 . The nature of POMs to act as a Lewis acid suggests that they may serve as effective catalysts of cationic homopolymerization of epoxy resins. POMs are most commonly formed from 4B 6B transition metals and have a wide variety of structures. See D. L. Long 49 1736 2010 . Much work has been done on utilizing the acidic character of POMs to improve efficiency and yield in laboratory and industrial processes chemical synthesis redox reactions and separation processes. See A. K. Cuentas Gallegos et al. 15 1125 2005 M. M. Heravi and S. J. Sadjadi 6 1 2009 P. Richardt et al. 40 703 2001 and S. Uchida et al. 130 12370 2008 .

Heteropolyacids make up a subgroup of POMs and usually form either the Keggin or the Dawson structure between 1 2 nm in diameter as shown in . The Keggin has a chemical formula of HXMO . It is composed of a IVB VIB transition metal M commonly V Nb Mo or W oxide outer shell and a single 4A 5A element X commonly P or Si at the core. The surface possesses either 3 or 4 hydroxyl groups depending on the choice of the central atom whether phosphorous or silicon.

The acidic character of heteropolyacids offers the potential to promote cationic homopolymerization of epoxy resins yielding novel epoxy nanocomposite materials. Bednarek et al. showed that heteropolyacids may be used to promote cationic ring opening polymerization reactions of cyclic ether species over two decades ago. See M. Bednarek et al. 190 929 1989 . Only recently have others reported the use of heteropolyacids to catalyze epoxy cure reactions. See Q. Wu et al. 286 761 2008 and Y. Yu et al. 51 1563 2010 . Heteropolyacids are soluble in water and many protic and aprotic polar solvents and will disassociate to varying degrees depending on the solvent basicity. See R. S. Drago et al. 119 7702 1997 . Heteropolyacids also form salt complexes with alkali metals and many organoamines. See Y. Izumi et al. 132 127 1905 A. G. Sathicq et al. 49 1441 2008 and W. Zhang et al. 13 832 2011 .

The present invention is directed to a method to synthesize polyoxometalate loaded epoxy composites. The method comprises adding a polyoxometalate to an epoxy resin and applying an external stimulus to release the acid from the polyoxometalate and thereby catalyze the cure reaction of the epoxy resin. The polyoxometalate can comprise an isopolyacid heteropolyacid or molybdenum compound. For example the heteropolyacid can comprise a Keggin structure or a Dawson structure. For example the heteropolyacid can comprise a phosphotungstate silicotungstate phosphomolybdate silicomolybdate lacunary structure thereof or a transition metal organo metal and silane type substituted derivative thereof. The epoxy resin preferably has a pKgreater than 7. For example the acid catalyzed epoxy resin can comprise N N diglycidyl 4 glycidyloxyaniline resin. For example the external stimulus comprises a photo or thermal stimulus.

As an example of the present invention a phosphotungstate heteropolyacid was used to catalyze the cationic homopolymerization of a N N diglycidyl 4 glycidyloxyaniline epoxy resin to form a polyoxometalate loaded epoxy composite. The catalytic activity was studied by isothermal differential scanning calorimetry. An epoxy hardener is not added to the epoxy resin leaving cure of the resin solely dependent on the POM concentration. The cure kinetics depends on POM concentration and temperature. A cure reaction kinetic model is described below in terms of the ACE and AM mechanisms.

Phosphotungstate PTA is a Keggin POM with the formula HPWO. Hydrated PTA was heated to 250 C. under vacuum for 24 hrs to dehydrate the PTA. The dehydrated PTA was added to the resin and mechanically blended to assist in breakup of the PTA clusters leading to dispersion of the PTA in the resin. Dispersion of PTA in the resin afforded PTA resin complex formation. Disassociation of the PTA surface hydroxyls leads to protonation of the resin tertiary amine forming a quaternary amine that forms a complex with the PTA anion. The PTA is able to complex with three resin molecules through three disassociating surface hydroxyls as shown in . The complex can then be solubilized by the remaining uncomplexed resin. After dispersion the resin was heat cured.

The state of the dispersion was evaluated by transmission electron microscopy TEM . A wedge of cured resin was cut from the cured PTA nanocomposite by focused ion beam FIB . FIB specimens were prepared in a dual beam field emission SEM and Ga focused ion beam system. High angle annular dark field HAADF scanning transmission electron micrographs were acquired with a TEM STEM operated at 300 kV and equipped with a field emission electron source. The HAADF image shows particles composed of higher atomic number elements like PTA as bright on a lower atomic number background such as the cured epoxy matrix. As shown in single particle resolution was obtained from the thinnest regions of the FIB specimen. A comparison of the size of the bright spots to the micrograph length scale gives a size of a little more than a nanometer which is the size of a single PTA particle.

The extent of conversion was followed by differential scanning calorimetry DSC measurement of the cure exotherm. Measurements were performed on a DSC instrument in sealed aluminum hermetic pans. An initial dynamic DSC thermal ramp at 0.5 C. min provided understanding of the rate of conversion of the epoxy with respect to temperature. The extent of conversion was determined from a running integration of the dynamic cure exotherm with respect to temperature normalized by the total area of the exotherm. The rate of conversion was then determined from the derivative of the extent of conversion with respect to time. A plot of the rate of conversion versus temperature for epoxy resin with a PTA volume fraction of 0.09 is shown in . The two peaks in the rate of conversion identify two cure mechanisms responsible for the crosslinking of the epoxy thermoset. The presence of two cure mechanisms makes a kinetic analysis of the dynamic DSC cure exotherm problematic and requires isothermal DSC to model the cure kinetics. See R. B. Prime 13 365 1973 .

Isothermal DSC measurement of the cure reaction exotherm were performed by rapid heat to the desired temperature and held at temperature until the cure exotherm returned to baseline. Isothermal temperatures covered the second peak in the rate of reaction with respect to temperature as shown in to capture both cure mechanisms and avoid vitrification during cure. The samples were then cooled to 25 C. and reheated at a ramp rate of 0.5 C. min up to 225 C. to check for residual cure. The extent of conversion was measured by running integration of the exotherm in time normalized by the total area of the exotherm. The extent of cure was measured for four PTA volume fractions of 0.03 0.05 0.07 and 0.09 in the resin at four to five temperatures.

The cure mechanism of Lewis acid catalyzed cationic homopolymerization of cyclic ethers is well established. See P. Kubisa and S. Penczek 24 1409 1999 and L. Matejka et al. 35 651 1997 . The cure mechanism occurs in two stages initiation and propagation. Initiation consists of a fast equilibrium between inactive and active initiator species and a slow reaction of an active initiator with a glycidyl yielding an active propagating dimer species. For the PTA suspension in N N diglycidyl 4 glycidyloxyaniline an equilibrium of disassociated PTA protons is rapidly established between protonation of the resin tertiary amine forming an inactive quaternary ammonium and protonation of a resin glycidyl forming an active secondary oxonium ion Eq. 3 .

The ACE mechanism is fast and propagation occurs by reaction of the tertiary oxonium ions with remaining glycidyl groups forming an active propagating polymer chain EE Eq. 5 .

Following initiation the number of ACE polymers is equal to the sum of all EE species. The total number of EE species is determined by the initial number of secondary oxonium ions converted to tertiary oxonium ions disregarding for the moment the influence of termination and transfer reactions . The initial number of secondary oxonium ions is determined by the initiation equilibrium constant that determines the number of active initiator species. As a result the concentration of ACE polymer is assumed to be proportional to the initial concentration of initiator through the equilibrium constant between inactive and active initiator 

The Iconcentration is substituted for the ACE polymer concentration and the ACE propagation rate constant is renamed as k . 8 The AM mechanism is slow and propagation occurs through reaction of the terminal alcohol group of the ACE polymer and secondary oxonium ions. The reaction creates a new terminal alcohol and yields a proton which feeds into initiation to reform a secondary oxonium ion.

Termination and transfer reactions limit ACE propagation and have been confirmed to be active in ACE epoxy propagation reactions. See S. Penczek et al. 3 203 1986 . An example termination reaction is attack of an ether oxygen by a tertiary oxonium to form a nonstrained tertiary oxonium that does not participate in ACE propagation. An example transfer reaction is end biting of the hydroxyl terminus of an ACE polymer by the tertiary oxonium of a second ACE polymer consuming a tertiary oxonium and liberating a proton. Termination and transfer reactions will cause a reduction in the concentration of ACE polymer and reduce the ACE rate of reaction.

In glycidyl conversion as determined from the area of DSC measured exotherms is plotted versus time for different isothermal cure temperatures of epoxy with a PTA volume fraction of 0.09. Two cure regimes are distinguished a fast cure at short time that gives way to a slower cure at long time. See P. Chabanne et al. 53 769 1994 . Based on past studies of cationic homopolymerization the fast cure may be attributed to the ACE mechanism. The AM mechanism is arguably nonexistent at the onset of propagation since alcohols are formed only as tertiary oxonium ions are formed. Assuming first order ACE kinetics in terms of the glycidyl concentration at short time a linear relationship is expected between conversion and time at low conversion implying a constant rate 

In an initial linear regime at short time is identified where the rate of conversion is constant. Initial conversion data points are ignored because they represent conversion that occurs when the DSC instrument is attempting to reach temperature. The dashed line shows the best linear fit. The rate of conversion is extracted from a linear best fit of the time dependent conversion data. The natural logarithms of the initial rates of conversion at an equivalent volume fraction are plotted versus 1 T in to extract an activation energy for the short time propagation reaction. According to the ACE rate equation a plot of the natural logarithm of the rate of reaction versus 11T will have a slope of E R. Indeed a linear relation is found for all four PTA volume fractions. The activation energies appear to be similar between the four PTA volume fractions as shown in Table 1 implying that the activation energy is independent of the PTA concentration. The activation energy is an apparent activation energy since it also contains the enthalpy of the equilibrium between inactive and active initiator yet the measurement does agree well with other measurements of epoxy systems that have been shown to initially propagate by the ACE mechanism. Chabanne et al. measured an activation energy of 70 kJ mol for phenylglycidylether Bouillon et al. measured an activation energy of 64 kJ mol for phenylglycidyether trioxane and Mateva et al. determined an activation energy of 77 kJ mol for phenylglycidylether PEO. See P. Chabanne et al. 53 769 1994 N. Bouillon et al. 191 1417 1990 and R. Mateva et al. 26 511 1988 .

In addition the influence of the PTA concentration on the short time fast cure regime was studied. According to the ACE mechanism the rate is expected to be first order in the Iassuming a constant proportionality between the number of ACE polymer in the propagation reaction and the total concentration of active and inactive initiator. In conversion is plotted versus time at a constant temperature of 185 C. for four PTA volume fractions. The slope of the initial linear regime representing the initial constant rate of conversion is extracted. The natural logarithm of the rate is plotted versus the natural logarithm of the initial initiator concentration in . The data points are expected to be linear with a slope of unity n 1 in Eq. 13 according to the ACE rate equation Eq 8 .

From the intercept of the best fit line the pre exponential factor was calculated to be 2.2 10cm sec. mol using an activation energy of 73.5 kJ mol from the mean of the activation energies shown in Table 1 determined from the Arrhenius plots of the four PTA volume fractions from the variable isothermal temperature measurements. Since the initial cure reaction is first order in I a pre exponential factor is calculated from the intercept of the Arrhenius plots of the constant PTA variable temperature measurements as well Table 1 . The pre exponential factors from the constant PTA variable temperature measurements are found to be of the same magnitude and of a similar value to the pre exponential from the constant temperature variable PTA measurement.

The second slower cure regime is attributed to the AM mechanism. In order to characterize the cure kinetics of the slow cure regime a material balance on the glycidyl concentration is written as the sum of the ACE and AM propagation rate equations expected to characterize the fast and slow cure regimes 

The propagation rate constant for the second cure regime k obtained from the fit is plotted versus 1 T in an Arrhenius plot to extract an activation energy as shown in . The linearity of the data shows that the rate constant has an Arrhenius temperature dependence. The activation energies extracted from the Arrhenius plots of the fast and slow propagation rate constants from the best fits of the conversion data are shown in Table 2 for the four PTA volume fractions. The activation energies Efor the fast propagation rate constant in Table 2 are similar to Efrom the prior analysis of the fast cure regime according to the ACE mechanism in Table 1. The activation energies Efor the slow propagation rate constant are also similar as the PTA volume fraction is varied. This supports that the slow cure mechanism remains unchanged by the PTA volume fraction. The values are similar to a previous measurement of the activation energy 89 kJ mol of diglycidyl ether of bisphenol A butyl glycidyl ether polyether triol system that propagates by the AM mechanism. See A. J. Ryan et al. 24 521 1990 .

According to the AM mechanism the cure reaction is expected to be first order in the secondary oxonium concentration and the alcohol concentration. It is assumed that the secondary oxonium concentration can be replaced by the glycidyl concentration and the alcohol concentration can be replaced by the initiator concentration. If these assumptions hold the reaction rate for the slow cure should appear to be first order in the glycidyl concentration and the initiator concentration. The ability of the model to fit the slow cure regime at variable temperatures and constant PTA supports the first order dependence of the slow cure rate on the glycidyl concentration. In addition the consistency of the activation energy for varying PTA volume fraction supports that the slow cure mechanism is unchanged as the initiator concentration is changed. It is then expected that the propagation rate constant for the slow cure regime should be constant as the PTA concentration is changed at a single temperature. Instead the slow cure propagation rate constant is found to have a fourth order dependence on the initiator concentration as shown in . The result implies a fourth order dependence of the pre exponential factor of the slow cure propagation rate constant with respect to Isince the activation energy of the slow cure is constant Table 2 . The pre exponential factor describes the efficiency of the transition state as the alcohol and secondary oxonium react to form an ether linkage and release a proton. A fourth order dependence of the pre exponential on Imay imply that either the proton concentration or the PTA anion concentration is improving the efficiency of the transition state toward the polymerized product.

An alternative explanation of the fourth order dependence is a breakdown of the assumption that the alcohol concentration is determined by I. This could imply a shift in the equilibrium between inactive and active initiator. Yet the initiator equilibrium was previously shown to not be affected by the amount of PTA. The analysis of the fast cure regime according to the ACE mechanism found a linear relation between Iand the tertiary oxonium concentration as the PTA volume fraction is increased. The same linear relation must hold true for the alcohol concentration since it is a product of initiation as is the tertiary oxonium concentration.

In summary the cure reaction propagates through two cure regimes. A fast cure at short time is identified as propagation by an ACE mechanism. A slow cure at long time is identified as propagation by an AM mechanism. The activation energies for the fast and slow cure regimes agree well with other systems that have been confirmed to propagate by the ACE and AM mechanisms.

Propagation by the ACE mechanism proceeds to higher levels of conversion as the PTA loading is increased. This can be attributed to an increase in the concentration of initiator which translates into a greater concentration of ACE polymer allowing the reaction to proceed to higher levels of conversion before termination and transfer reactions begin to significantly hinder ACE propagation. Termination and transfer reactions consume the ACE polymer leading to a dramatic reduction in the rate of propagation by the ACE mechanism. The result is a shift of the cure reaction to the AM mechanism. The AM mechanism is slower than the ACE mechanism as shown by a larger activation energy for the slow cure regime.

The ACE pre exponential is not significantly affected by the concentration of PTA showing that an increase in PTA does not cause a dramatic shift in the equilibrium between inactive and active initiator. Increases in PTA give a linear increase in active initiator since the pre exponential is unchanged. The result implies a strong affinity of the amine for the proton compared to the glycidyl such that the majority of the protons are associated with the amine. The linear increase is likely assisted by the large amount of resin amines and glycidyls compared to acidic protons between 1 2 orders of magnitude more depending on the PTA concentration such that the equilibrium between active and inactive initiator is not shifted significantly by an increase in the PTA concentration.

The present invention has been described as a method of synthesis of polyoxometalate loaded epoxy. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

