---

title: Systems, methods, and media for generating hierarchical fused risk scores
abstract: Systems, methods, and media for generating fused risk scores for determining fraud in call data are provided herein. Some exemplary methods include generating a fused risk score used to determine fraud from call data by generating a fused risk score for a leg of call data, via a fuser module of an analysis system, the fused risk score being generated by fusing together two or more uniquely calculated fraud risk scores, each of the uniquely calculated fraud risk scores being generated by a sub-module of the analysis system; and storing the fused risk score in a storage device that is communicatively couplable with the fuser module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08903859&OS=08903859&RS=08903859
owner: Verint Americas Inc.
number: 08903859
owner_city: Alpharetta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120308
---
This application is a continuation in part and claims benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 290 011 filed on Nov. 4 2011 entitled SYSTEMS METHODS AND MEDIA FOR DETERMINING FRAUD PATTERNS AND CREATING FRAUD BEHAVIORAL MODELS which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 754 974 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 073 691 filed on May 29 2007 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SCREENING USING VOICE DATA AND METADATA which in turn claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Applications 60 923 195 filed on Apr. 13 2007 entitled Seeding Techniques and Geographical Optimization Details for a Fraud Detection System that uses Voiceprints and 60 808 892 filed on May 30 2006 entitled Optimizations for a Fraud Detection System that uses Voiceprints. 

This application is also a continuation in part and claims benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 754 975 filed on May 29 2007 entitled Method and System to Seed a Voice Database which in turn claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Applications 60 923 195 filed on Apr. 13 2007 entitled Seeding Techniques and Geographical Optimization Details for a Fraud Detection System that uses Voiceprints and 60 808 892 filed on May 30 2006 entitled Optimizations for a Fraud Detection System that uses Voiceprints. 

This application is also a continuation in part and claims benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 352 530 filed on Jan. 12 2009 entitled BUILDING WHITELISTS COMPRISING VOICEPRINTS NOT ASSOCIATED WITH FRAUD AND SCREENING CALLS USING A COMBINATION OF A WHITELIST AND BLACKLIST which in turn claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Applications 61 197 848 filed Oct. 31 2008 entitled Voice biometrics based fraud management system and 61 010 701 filed Jan. 11 2008 entitled Optimizations extensions of a system to detect fraud using voiceprints. 

This application is also a continuation in part and claims benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 856 200 filed on Aug. 13 2010 entitled SPEAKER VERIFICATION BASED FRAUD SYSTEM FOR COMBINED AUTOMATED RISK SCORE WITH AGENT REVIEW AND ASSOCIATED USER INTERFACE which in turn claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application 61 335 677 filed on Jan. 11 2010 entitled Method for correlating fraud audio to textual fraud reports using word spotting. 

This application is also a continuation in part and claims benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 856 118 filed on Aug. 13 2010 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR GENERATING A FRAUD RISK SCORE USING TELEPHONY CHANNEL BASED AUDIO AND NON AUDIO DATA which in turn claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Applications 61 335 677 filed on Jan. 11 2010 entitled Method for correlating fraud audio to textual fraud reports using word spotting. 

This application is also a continuation in part and claims benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 856 037 filed on Aug. 13 2010 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR ENROLLING A VOICEPRINT IN A FRAUDSTER DATABASE which in turn claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Applications 61 335 677 filed on Jan. 11 2010 entitled Method for correlating fraud audio to textual fraud reports using word spotting. 

This application and each of the aforementioned Non Provisional U.S. patent Applications is a continuation in part and claims benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 404 342 filed on Apr. 14 2006 entitled Method and system to detect fraud using voice data which in turn claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 60 673 472 filed on Apr. 21 2005 entitled Detecting Fraudulent Use of Financial Account Numbers Using Voiceprints. 

This application is also a continuation in part and claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 278 067 filed on Oct. 20 2011 entitled Method and System for Screening Using Voice Data and Metadata which in turn is a continuation of and claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 754 974 filed on May 29 2007 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SCREENING USING VOICE DATA AND METADATA which in turn claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Applications 60 923 195 filed on Apr. 13 2007 entitled Seeding Techniques and Geographical Optimization Details for a Fraud Detection System that uses Voiceprints and 60 808 892 filed on May 30 2006 entitled Optimizations for a Fraud Detection System that uses Voiceprints. 

This application is also a continuation in part and claims benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 415 809 filed concurrently herewith on Mar. 8 2012 entitled SYSTEMS METHODS AND MEDIA FOR DETERMINING FRAUD RISK FROM AUDIO SIGNALS. All of above applications and patents are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Embodiments of the disclosure relate to methods and systems for generating risk scores for call data within the context of fraud detection systems. The technologies provided herein may be utilized to generate fused risk scores from multiple unique risk scores that are generated by various modules of a fraud analysis system.

Fraud such as credit card fraud and identity fraud are common. To deal with fraud enterprises such as merchants and banks use a variety of fraud detection systems that analyze call data and determine if the call data is associated with fraudsters. However these fraud detection systems are susceptible to becoming obsolete within a short time because fraudsters change their methods of perpetrating fraud in order to maneuver past such fraud detection systems.

Therefore what is needed are systems methods and media for generating risk scores that may be utilized by call center agents to determine the risk level associated with one or more instances of call data.

According to some embodiments the present technology may be directed to methods for generating a fused risk score used to determine fraud from call data. The methods may include a generating a fused risk score for a leg of call data via a fuser module of an analysis system the fused risk score being generated by fusing together two or more uniquely calculated fraud risk scores each of the uniquely calculated fraud risk scores being generated by a sub module of the analysis system and b storing the fused risk score in a storage device that is communicatively couplable with the fuser module.

According to some embodiments the present technology may be directed to a method for generating a fused risk score used to determine a likelihood of fraud from call data. The method may include including any amendments made during the pendency of this application and all equivalents of those claims as issued receiving a first leg of call data generating a first audio component match score for the first leg of the call data based on a comparison of audio data in the first leg with a first voice model in a fraudster database using a first component of a first sub module and generating a first non audio component match score for the first leg of the call data based on a comparison of non audio data in the first leg with a first non audio data in the fraudster database using a second component of the first sub module. The method further includes fusing together the first audio component match score and the first non audio component match score using a first fuser component to generate a first fused component match score. The method also includes determining the fused risk score based on the first fused component match score using a risk score fuser module and determining the likelihood of fraud from the fused risk score.

According to some embodiments the present technology may be directed to a system for generating a fused risk score from call data. The system includes a memory for storing executable instructions a processor for executing the instructions and a first blacklist sub module configured to receive a first leg of call data the first blacklist sub module. The first blacklist sub module includes a voice data component configured to generate a blacklist voice match score based on a comparison of voice call data and a speaker model in a fraudster database a non audio data component configured to generate a blacklist non audio match score based on a comparison of non audio call data and a fraudster non audio model in the fraudster database the fraudster non audio model related to the fraudster speaker model and a blacklist fuser component communicatively coupled to the voice data component and the non audio data component and configured to fuse the blacklist voice match score and the blacklist non audio match score and output a blacklist match score. The system further includes a first whitelist sub module configured to receive the first leg of the call data the first whitelist sub module. The first whitlist sub module includes a voice data component configured to generate a whitelist voice match score based on a comparison of voice call data and a speaker model in a whitelist database a non audio data component configured to generate a whitelist non audio match score based on a comparison of non audio call data and a whitelist non audio model in a whitelist database the whitelist non audio model related to the whitelist speaker model and a whitelist fuser component communicatively coupled to the voice data component and the non audio data component and configured to fuse the whitelist voice match score and the whitelist non audio match score and output a whitelist match score. The system also includes a first fuser sub module configured to fuse the blacklist match score and whitelist match score for the first leg of the call data and generate a first leg risk score.

According to some embodiments the present technology may be directed to systems for generating a fused risk score used to determine fraud from call data. The systems may include a a memory for storing executable instructions b a processor for executing the instructions c two or more sub modules that each generate uniquely calculated fraud risk scores for a leg of call data d a fuser module stored in memory and executable by the processor to generate a fused risk score for the leg of call data the fuser module generating the fused risk score by fusing together two or more uniquely calculated fraud risk scores and e an output module that stores the fused risk score in a storage device that is associated with the analysis system.

According to additional embodiments the present technology may be directed to computer readable storage media for generating a fused risk score. The storage media may include a program embodied thereon the program being executable by a processor to perform a method for generating a fused risk score used to determine fraud from call data. The method may include a generating a fused risk score for a leg of call data via a fuser module of an analysis system the fused risk score being generated by fusing together two or more uniquely calculated fraud risk scores each of the uniquely calculated fraud risk scores being generated by a sub module of the analysis system and b storing the fused risk score in a storage device that is communicatively couplable with the fuser module.

According to other embodiments the present technology may be directed to methods for processing call data utilizing a fused risk score. The methods may include a generating a fused risk score for a leg of call data via a fuser module of an analysis system the fused risk score being generated by fusing together two or more uniquely calculated fraud risk scores each of the uniquely calculated fraud risk scores being generated by a sub module of the analysis system b comparing the fused risk score to a threshold value and c storing the call data in at least one of a whitelist a blacklist and a precursor database in response to the comparison.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown at block diagram form only in order to avoid obscuring the disclosure.

Broadly speaking the present technology may generate fused risk scores from call data. These fused risk scores may be utilized to determine fraud associated with call data. The present technology may generate fused risk scores from uniquely calculated risk scores generated by sub modules of an analysis system. Stated succinctly a fused risk score may represent the coalescence of various fraud indicators or risk scores into a single fused score or a plurality of fused scores. Thus otherwise disparate risk scores or risk values may be analyzed together to determine fraud from call data in a manner that is unavailable from evaluating these individual risk scores or risk values alone.

This fused risk score may be utilized as the basis to take specific action relative to call data such as enrolling the call data into a fraudster database e.g. blacklist enrolling the call data into a customer database e.g. whitelist flagging the call data for review approving denying a transaction and so forth.

According to some embodiments the manner in which a fused risk score is calculated may be specified by requirements established by an enterprise. For example a bank may elect to have certain types of risk scores fused into one or more fused risk scores by the present technology. As such a subset of risk scores generated by sub modules may be combined into a particularized risk score that is highly relevant to the business needs of the enterprise.

The present technology may receive call data from a call data source such as a call data recording system of an enterprise or directly from a caller. In some instances the call data may be diarized to separate the call data into legs. Advantageously each leg may comprise voice data channel data and other data such as operational data associated with the voice data or the channel data for a single speaker. Therefore for each unique speaker in the call data a leg of call data may be created.

The system may remove call data associated with agents via comparative processes that compare the voice data such as speaker models in the legs of call data to agent voice data. It will be understood that the terms voice data may be understood to include raw voice data and or a speaker model generated from the raw voice data.

Legs of call data associated with agents may be filtered out while the remaining legs e.g. legs that may be potentially associated with fraudsters or customers may be processed to generate fused risk scores for each of the remaining legs. These fused risk scores may be utilized to indicate a relative risk level for a particular leg of call data. In some instances fused risk scores for individual legs may also be fused together to create a fused risk score for the call data rather than just individual legs of the call data. On the other hand fused risk scores may be generated on a more granular level. For example a fused risk score may be generated for a sub module by combining the individual outputs of components within the sub module as will be described in greater detail below.

Generally speaking the risk score for a call event may represent the likelihood that a call event is associated with an instance of fraud or even a particular fraudster. For example a number between 0 and 1000 may be generated by the scoring module such as the scoring system in the higher the number the higher the risk. The scoring system may employ any of a variety of functions for computing the risk score. One example is the likelihood function. In some embodiments a likelihood function is defined as the likelihood that a particular candidate call is fraud or the likelihood that a particular candidate call is a specific fraudster etc. The risk score may be used to evaluate not only the call audio data e.g. audio signals speaker models channel models etc. but also non audio data such as account transactional order or other call related records.

The present technology may weigh individual risk scores or fused risk scores generated for sub modules to optimize the determination of fraudsters from the legs of call data. In other embodiments risk scores generated by individual components of the sub modules may also be fused. Therefore fusing of risk scores may occur on several levels within an analysis of call data.

In some instances the present technology may employ a controller that exposes a leg of call data to sub modules in a hierarchical manner. That is a leg of call data may be selectively processed in a sequential or otherwise ordered manner by two or more sub modules. After each stage of processing e.g. generation of a risk score the output of a sub module may be utilized as the basis to determine if the leg is to be exposed to one or more additional modules. For example if the initial sub module generates a risk score for the leg that indicates that the leg is a perfect match with an ANI automatic number identification associated with a fraudster it may not be necessary to subsequently process the call data with other sub modules. Other types of gating functions such as this may be employed to increase the efficiency of the present technology.

Additionally the fused risk scores may serve as the basis for determining how call data is further processed. For example a fused risk score may indicate that a leg is highly likely associated with a fraudster. Therefore the leg may be enrolled into a fraudster database. In other embodiments the fused risk score may serve as the basis for storing the leg in a precursor database or the flagging the leg for further review. In some instances a fused risk score may prompt the communication of an alert communication and or the acceptance declination of a particular transaction.

A fused risk score may prompt the generation of various types of output which may be generated by various components of the present technology. For example based upon a fused risk score the present technology may output a single overall fused risk score for call data confidence values for one or more of the aforementioned fused risk scores a reason code associated with a fused risk score or multiple codes diarized call data along with confidence values for the diarization along with other types of output that would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art with the present disclosure before them.

These and other advantages of the present technology are described infra with reference to the collective drawings .

Referring now to a pictorial representation of an exemplary implementation of a system for fraud detection is shown in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure. As can be seen from an enterprise call center a fraud detection system hereinafter referred to as FDS and a plurality of callers are shown. The call center may receive and process calls on behalf of an enterprise. The enterprise may include a merchant an insurance company an affiliate of a company a bank a telecommunication company a cellular service provider a credit card company a credit card service company and the like.

According to some embodiments the call center may receive calls from the plurality of callers hereinafter the callers for goods and or services provided by the enterprise. The callers may call the call center using a VoIP Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN mobile network A. The calls from the callers may enter an automatic call distributor which distributes calls across individual agents . Call events may be recorded by a recording device of the call center and later processed for fraud detection. It will be understood that the callers may include legitimate customers and fraudsters.

The callers may request call center agents who receive phone calls to process transactions related to goods services. In some embodiments the call center may apply one or more business rules to decide whether to process a transaction directly or to have a fraud check performed on the caller. The term call data for a call event or a segment of the call event may be understood to include not only audio data e.g. audio signals or call audio data for the call event but non audio data for the call event. The term call audio data for the call event or segment of the call event may be understood to include the audio portion of the call data e.g. audio signals . Call audio data audio sample audio signal and audio data may be used interchangeably. The above described examples of audio signal data are to be understood to be non limiting and one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many other types of audio signal may likewise be utilized in accordance with the present technology. Additionally audio information or data may be extracted from call audio data including both speaker models that represent the voice of a speaker and channel models that represent a communication profile of an audio path for a channel used by the speaker. The communications profile may include noise models background noise transfer path functions as will be described in greater detail infra as well as other representative characteristics that may be determined for a communications channel that would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

Many touchpoints may exist for exchanging data between an enterprise and a customer. For example the enterprise may operate physical establishments call centers websites physical mail short messaging services mobile applications and so forth. Enterprises may not utilize systems that employ consolidated records for customers that link data gathered from these various touchpoints.

Additional examples of non audio data include in various combinations a call identification that includes a unique identifier that identifies the call an automatic number identification that represents the number that initiated a call event a dialed number identification service that comprises a dialed number e.g. telephone number short code etc. an agent identification that specifies the call agent associated with the call event a queue identifier that identifies the telephony queue into which a call event has been directed by the call center e.g. sales technical support fraud review etc. a timestamp that indicates a date and time when the call event was initiated a call center identifier that indicates the call center which initially received the call event and or the like.

For a call in reference to an account and or transaction examples of non audio data include an account number that specifies the account number that the call event was in reference to a transaction number that specifies a transaction that the call was in reference to names associated with the account first last etc a social security number or other government issued identification number an address current and or previous telephone number current and or previous email address account type business consumer reseller etc. account opening date credit limit list of transactions associated with the account.

Examples of transaction non audio data include a transaction identifier that uniquely identifies the transaction a timestamp specifying a date and time for the transaction a transaction disposition e.g. change of address account balance check account payment details account plan change and so forth a shipping address and combinations thereof.

For a call in reference to an order examples of non audio data include an order number such as a unique order identification a list of items ordered an order value a timestamp a name a shipping address an email address a phone number a shipping method billing details and combinations thereof. Any of the above non audio data may be used as an audio signal identifier.

All of the aforementioned types of data including audio and or non audio data may be employed to generate risk scores for a call event as will be described in greater detail infra.

Many types of customer metadata may be determined from an evaluation of the above mentioned call data. Exemplary types of metadata include account transaction and or order metadata along with call metadata. Additional data may also be extracted from non audio data such as patterns or relationships.

Additionally audio data e.g. a leg extracted from call data may include speaker data from which a speaker model may be generated as well as channel data from which a channel model may be generated representing a communications profile for a channel used by the speaker.

A channel model may include information regarding the path that was traversed by an audio sample e.g. the path between the caller and the caller agent or enterprise system . The present technology may evaluate and model the delay present in the audio signal to characterize the path taken by the audio signal. In addition to modeling delay the present technology may model jitter echo artifacts such as artifacts introduced by audio compression encoding techniques error recovery packet loss changes to the signal bandwidth spectral characteristics and or other audio artifacts that occur at switching boundaries. With particular regard to VoIP paths discrete devices e.g. routers gateways servers computing devices etc. involved in the transmission of VoIP data may also imprint artifacts in an audio sample. The channel model also can model handset characteristics such as microphone type.

It will be understood that the channel characteristics for a segment of call audio data may be sufficiently unique to determine that separate segments of call audio data belong to two separate speakers. For example a customer calling into an enterprise may have channel characteristics that are inherently distinctive relative to the channel characteristics associated with call agents of the enterprise. Therefore differences in channel characteristics may alone suffice as a basis for diarizing and separating segments of call audio data.

The present technology may also generate operational models for call data that represent non audio related information comprising data such as aliases names utilized ANIs used geographical area of operation e.g. shipping address zipcode etc. fraudulent activities and so forth. The operational models may include many types of speaker agnostic data. Speaker agnostic data may include types of data that do not depend upon the actual words spoken by a particular caller.

The term speaker model may be understood to include a voice model representing the unique characteristics of an individual s voice and or a language model representing linguistic characteristics of the speaker. The voice model may include a collection of features that are extracted from an audio signal of the individual s voice and encoded within a specific statistical framework. In various embodiments these features include cadence tone rate of speech spectral characteristics and or other descriptive information about the voice and vocal track of the speaker that describes the speaker separately from the words spoken . Other synonyms for a voice model may include but are not limited to a voice signature a voice print a voice portion of a speaker model and also in some instances simply a speaker voice. The language model is comprised of features or characteristics such as the words spoken and speech choices made by the speaker and a statistical framework for encoding those features. Examples of a statistical framework include the probability of an occurrence of a string of words and how that probability is calculated. In various embodiments the language model includes language s spoken word choice word order accent grammar diction slang jargon rate of speech and or the like. It is noteworthy that in some instances information in addition to a speaker model voice model and language model can be extracted from call audio data. For example a channel model may be extracted from call audio data as described elsewhere herein. Further word spotting or word recognition may be used to extract data for example name account number social security number address and or the like from call audio data.

The present technology may compare voice data and or channel data to fraudster models that are stored in a fraudster database. The fraudster model may comprise any combination of a speaker model a channel model and an operational model for a given fraudster. The operational model for a fraudster may comprise data such as aliases names utilized ANIs used geographical area of operation e.g. shipping address zipcode etc. fraudulent activities and so forth. Each fraudster may be associated with a fraud identifier that uniquely identifies a fraudster and allows the fraudster to be tracked.

In other embodiments the present technology may also enroll speaker models including voice models determined to correspond to a fraudster in a blacklist determined to be associated with fraudsters. For additional details regarding the enrollment of speaker models into a blacklist see e.g. U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 404 342 11 754 974 11 754 975 12 352 530 12 856 037 12 856 118 12 856 200 which are all hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

Customer accounts for each legitimate customer may be stored in an account database . Additionally call data for call events may be stored in the account database or may be linked to the customer account via a screening identification that associates a particular call event with a customer account. Therefore both legitimate and fraudulent call data events may be linked to the customer account.

In some embodiments the call center may include a fraud management system that receives data indicative of potential or actual fraudulent activities from the FDS . The fraud management system may utilize the fraud data provided by the FDS along with other enterprise specific information to process and remedy fraudulent account activity.

A file transfer server of the call center may communicate recorded call data to the FDS using Internet LAN B. In some instances the audio signals may be streamed to the FDS via the file transfer server . The Internet LAN may utilize a secure communications protocol. File transfer server may communicate call data to a scoring system hereinafter system via an application programming interface API or any other suitable data transmission protocols which may be secured or insecure. The scoring system is configured to generate risk scores and fused the risk scores for use in detecting fraud. Additional operational details of the system are described in greater detail with regard to .

It will be understood that the FDS may be configured to receive fraud risk scores from the scoring system for use to detect any type of fraud however for the purposes of brevity the present disclosure focuses on fraud perpetrated fraudsters utilizing telephonic devices. The FDS of includes a scoring system a diarization system and an enrollment disambiguation system .

The enrollment disambiguation system may enroll speaker models in a fraudster database blacklist creates a fraudster database that may be used as a corpus of fraudster models that may be queried against for comparing voice data of a leg of call data to fraudster models for known fraudsters. More specifically the present technology may compare voice data and or channel data for an instance of call data e.g. diarized leg of call data to fraudster models that are stored in a fraudster database. The fraudster model may comprise any combination of a speaker model a channel model and an operational model for a given fraudster. The operational model for a fraudster may comprise data such as aliases names utilized ANIs used geographical area of operation e.g. shipping address zip code etc. fraudulent activities and so forth. Each fraudster may be associated with a fraud identifier that uniquely identifies a fraudster and allows the fraudster to be tracked.

The enrollment of speaker models into a fraudster database uses one or more precursor fraud databases. A precursor fraud database may be seeded with audio samples and associated audio sample identifiers collected without regard to fraudulent activity associated with the audio samples. The audio sample identifiers may be matched with identifiers in a fraud report. Speaker models extracted from audio in the precursor fraud database that is associated with the matched audio sample identifiers may be enrolled into the fraudster database. In various embodiments the audio sample identifiers include any type of information that links the audio signal with at least one of a speaker identity a customer account and or a communications device such as a cellular telephone a landline or computing system that communicates via VoIP protocols. Information for a communications device may include data such as ANI IMEI caller identification and so forth. As will be discussed below channel models extracted from audio in the precursor fraud database that is associated with the matched audio sample identifiers may be enrolled into the fraudster database in a manner similar to speaker models.

In some embodiments call data for call events is stored in a precursor database for enrollment into a fraudster database see e.g. U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 404 342 11 754 975 and 12 856 037 which are all hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

It is noteworthy that the system may include additional modules engines or components and still fall within the scope of the present technology. As used herein the term module may also refer to any of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC an electronic circuit a processor shared dedicated or group that executes one or more software or firmware programs a combinational module circuit and or other suitable components that provide the described functionality. In other embodiments individual modules of the system may include separately configured web servers.

In some embodiments the system may be implemented in a cloud computing environment. Generally speaking a cloud computing environment or cloud is a resource that typically combines the computational power of a large grouping of processors and or that combines the storage capacity of a large grouping of computer memories or storage devices. For example systems that provide a cloud resource may be utilized exclusively by their owners such as Google or Yahoo or such systems may be accessible to outside users who deploy applications within the computing infrastructure to obtain the benefit of large computational or storage resources.

The cloud may be formed for example by a network of servers with each server providing processor and or storage resources. These servers may manage workloads provided by multiple users e.g. cloud resource customers or other users . Typically each user may place workload demands upon the cloud that vary in real time sometimes dramatically. The nature and extent of these variations typically depends on the type of business associated with the user.

The present technology leverages the computational resources of distributed computing e.g. cloud computing systems to facilitate efficient diarization and risk scoring of call audio data.

A portion or potentially all portions of system may be integrated into FDS while in other embodiments the constituent sub modules components of the system may be remotely distributed from one another in a remote computing arrangement wherein each of the modules may communicate with one another via the Internet utilizing any one or combination of a number of communications protocols or communications mechanisms e.g. API HTTP FTP etc. . It is envisioned that while the system may be integrated within the FDS in some embodiments the system may function as a stand alone risk score fusing system that may be utilized by an enterprise separate from the FDS .

Call data may be received by the diarization system from any one or more originating sources such as file transfer server or may be received directly from callers see . Again the call data may include not only voice data but also channel data and other data associated with the voice data and the channel data.

The system may receive the diarized audio signals from the diarization system as recorded data or streamed data. Upon receiving call data the diarization system may diarize the call data into one or more legs. It will be understood that a leg of call data may include segments comprising voice data channel data and metadata for a unique speaker. In some embodiments a diarization system may be associated with the call center and the system may receive diarized call data from the enterprise.

Alternatively the call center may record incoming call data also referred to as the calling leg and the outgoing call data also referred to as the called leg separately from one another as well as separately from additional calling legs for example as might be present in a conference call. Each of the two or more separate legs of call data may be stored and transmitted or optionally streamed to the FDS . Any of the separately recorded calling legs may include more than one voice. For example agent 1 in the called leg may ask agent 2 in the called leg to speak with the caller on the calling leg. The two or more separate calling legs may be provided directly to the scoring system bypassing the diarization system .

Once the call data has been diarized or separated the diarized call data also known as legs of call data for one or more unique speakers are then provided to an analysis module such as analysis module A. While any number of analysis modules may be utilized the functionalities of the analysis modules A N are substantially similar. Therefore for the purposes of brevity the analysis modules A N will hereinafter be referred to as analysis module A. It is noteworthy that the number of analysis modules included in the system may correspond to the number of legs that have been diarized from the call data. This allows for parallel processing of each of the legs rather than sequential processing with a single analysis module. Alternatively multiple analysis modules A N may be configured as a single module that is used to generate matches of multiple legs of call data processing each leg or portions of each leg using time share or time slice techniques.

The controller sub module may determine the order in which a leg of call data is provided to the various sub modules and modules of the analysis module A. The leg of call data may be provided to combinations of the agent sub module the customer account sub module the blacklist sub module and the general fraud sub module for processing. The controller sub module may cooperate with the agent gating sub module and or the account gating sub module in determining the module and or sequence for providing the leg of call data to the agent sub module the customer account sub module the blacklist sub module and the general fraud sub module

The agent gating sub module may be used to determine if the leg of data is to be analyzed using the agent sub module . In some instances when a leg of call data is received by the analysis module A the leg may be compared against the agent models database by the agent gating sub module to determine if the leg corresponds to an agent. That is if metadata associated with an agent is included in the leg use of the agent sub module may be precluded to optimize further analysis of the leg. On the other hand if the leg does not include agent identification metadata the agent sub module may be accessed if necessary to determine if the leg is associated with an agent for example by comparing voice data of the leg to voice data associated with agents.

The account gating sub module operates in a different manner than in the agent case. If the customer account is known a customer speaker model for example in a whitelist can be found. The customer account sub module may then generate a match score for that customer using for example a whitelist.

Additionally if the leg of call data is associated with a potentially new account it can be inferred that no customer account information can be determined. The customer account sub module may be used to find a match to determine if another customer e.g. a previous undetected fraudster a current customer by mistake etc. is trying to open a new account. Otherwise the customer account sub module may be employed to determine a customer account associated with the leg of call data such as when a speaker states a name account number or other identifying information such as account metadata that may be included in the leg e.g. customer account information may be input by a caller via a telephone keypad .

The agent sub module is configured to receive as input a call data leg which includes agent data and generate as output an agent match score indicating a likelihood that a leg call data corresponds to an agent. The agent sub module includes person of interest POI database a voice data component telephony component location component and a fuser component . Each of the components may be omitted or used. In some embodiments additional components are used. Other components such as a channel component may also be used in addition or instead of one of the above components. The following example is to illustrate an example of algorithms and functions that may be employed for generating an agent match score. However the agent sub module may employ other algorithms and or functions and still remain with embodiments of the invention.

The agent sub module may select a set or subset of agent models from the POI database . For example the agent sub module may select a set of ten agent models. The voice data component is configured to generate an agent voice match score for each agent speaker model in the set. For example the voice data component may generate the following agent voice match score list or array 

Similarly the telephony component is configured to generate an agent telephony match score for telephony data against each agent model in the set. An example of a telephony match list or array is 

Similarly the location component is configured generate an agent location match score for location data against each agent model in the set. An example of a location match list or array is 

The fuser component may generate an agent match score based on the three sets of agent scores according to a predetermined algorithm. An example is to determine an average for each agent match score for each of the three components. That is the first entry of the voice match score array the telephony match score array and the location match score array 0 2 2 respectively may be averaged as 0 2 2 3 1.3. Similarly the second through tenth entries in the respective voice match score array the telephony match score array and the location match score array may be averaged to yield the following example array 

The customer account sub module is configured to receive as input a call data leg which includes non audio call data such as the customer account number and generate as output an account match score indicating a likelihood that a leg call data corresponds to an account holder. The account sub module includes a POI database a voice data component telephony component location component and a fuser component . In some embodiments more components are used. Each of the components may be omitted or used. In the case of an unknown account e.g. a new account the same or similar algorithm may be used as described above for the agent sub module . The account sub module may select as input a set comprising many accounts. The white list may be stored in the POI database . The account sub module may select the set of accounts for example from a whitelist in the POI database . Alternatively the account number may be known. The account number may be associated with one or more speakers. In such case the account sub module may select as input a set comprising the known one or more account holders associated with the account. In either case the above algorithm and functions described above for the agent sub module may be used to determine the likelihood that the leg of call data is associated with one of the account holders. The following example is intended to illustrate another example of algorithms and functions that may be employed for generating an account match score for an account including two account holders. However the account sub module may employ other algorithms and or functions and still remain with embodiments of the invention.

The account sub module may select a set or subset of account models from the POI database . For example the account sub module may select a set of models for two account holders. The voice data component is configured to generate an account voice match score for each account speaker model in the set. For example the voice data component may generate an account voice match score list of

Similarly the telephony component is configured to generate an account telephony match score for each account holder model or account holder speaker model in the set. An example of a telephony match is

The location component may be ignored or not used. For example the customer account sub module the account gating sub module and or the controller sub module may set a flag to skip the location component .

The fuser component may generate an account match score based on the two sets of account holder scores according to a predetermined algorithm. An example is to determine an average for account match scores for each of the two holders of the account e.g. 

The blacklist sub module is configured to receive as input a call data leg and generate as output a fraudster match score indicating a likelihood that a leg call data corresponds to a fraudster in the blacklist. The blacklist sub module includes a POI database a voice data component telephony component location component and a fuser component . In some embodiments more components are used. Each of the components may be omitted or used. The following example is to illustrate an example of algorithms and functions that may be employed for generating a fraudster match score. However the blacklist sub module may employ other algorithms and or functions and still remain with embodiments of the invention.

The blacklist sub module may store a blacklist in the POI database . The blacklist sub module may select as input a set or subset of models in the blacklist. For example the blacklist sub module may select a set of models for hundreds thousands tens of thousands hundreds of thousands millions or more fraudsters. However for illustration purposes a set of ten fraudsters in used in this example. The voice data component is configured to generate a fraudster voice match score for each fraudster speaker model in the set of selected fraudster data. For example the voice data component may generate an fraudster voice match score list or array of

Similarly the telephony component is configured to generate a fraudster telephony match score against each fraudster model in the set. An example of a telephony match list or array is

Similarly the location component is configured generate a fraudster location match score for location data against each fraudster model in the set. An example of a telephony match list or array is

The fuser component may generate a fraudster match score based on the three sets of fraudster scores according to a predetermined algorithm. An example is to determine an average for fraudster match scores for each of the three components e.g. 

Generally speaking the general fraud sub module may compare the leg of call data to one or more types of speaker agnostic fraud data. Examples of speaker agnostic fraud data include call duration where calls generated by fraudsters may have similar call durations. Likewise calls received by certain call queues may be more closely associated with fraudsters. For example inbound call queues that are dedicated to modifying existing customer account information may be frequently targeted by fraudsters attempting to gain control of customer accounts by manipulating customer account information.

According to some embodiments the general fraud sub module may include a call duration component that compares the leg of call data to call duration data associated with fraudsters and generates a call duration risk score based upon the comparison. Also the general fraud sub module may include a call queue component that compares the leg of call data to call queue data associated with fraudsters and generates a call queue risk score based upon the comparison. The general fraud sub module may include additional components that compare the leg of call data to other types of speaker agnostic fraud data.

The general fraud sub module is configured to receive as input a call data leg and general fraud parameters for call duration and call queue. The general fraud sub module is further configured to generate as output a general fraud match score indicating a likelihood that a leg call data corresponds to fraud. The general fraud sub module of includes the call duration component the call queue component and the fuser component . The following example is intended to illustrate an example of algorithms and functions that may be employed for generating a general fraud match score. However the general fraud sub module may employ other algorithms and or functions and still remain with embodiments of the invention. The general fraud sub module may select as parameters for the call duration component and or the call queue component values based on data from the agent sub module the customer account sub module and or the blacklist sub module .

The call duration component may generate a duration match score using parameters and algorithms installed in the component. For example the call duration component may generate a duration match score of 8. Similarly the call queue component may generate a queue match score using parameters and algorithms installed in the component. For example the call queue component may generate a queue match score of 5. It is noteworthy that the general fraud module may receive inputs on a per call basis not just a per leg basis. In various embodiments the call duration component and or the call queue component may be used to match an entire call or a call leg or a segment of a call leg.

The fuser component may then calculate an average score i.e. 6.5 as representing the likelihood that the call leg is related to fraud. Thus the general fraud match score for the received leg of call data is 6.5. The general fraud match score may be provided to the fuser sub module . Other functions and or algorithms may be used to process the general fraud data and generate a match score.

Generally speaking each of the modules described above may be adapted to generate unique match scores for each comparison between call leg data and respective sub module models. Each comparison may be expressed as a numeric value e.g. between 1 and 10 indicating a degree of a match. The number may represent either a higher or lower fraud risk depending on sub module. For example in the case of the blacklist sub module and the general fraud sub module fraudster match score and fraud match score respectively a higher number indicates a higher risk of fraud or fraud score. On the other hand in the case of the agent sub module and the customer account sub module agent match score and account match score respectively a higher match score indicates a lower risk of fraud or fraud score.

For example speaker characteristics features for a leg of call data may be compared to a speaker model for a fraudster. If the match score for the leg is 9 when compared to the speaker model for the fraudster the risk score for the comparison may be relatively high. As a practical matter scales used for representing a match are rather arbitrary and different scales may be used for each sub module. In various embodiments the scales may be numeric percentage linear logarithmic digital and or the like. The scale of 1 10 is presented as an example for simplicity. Thus for simplicity this application has adapted the convention that the match score is directly related to a match between the call data and data in a database which may represent risk that either the call or call leg is related to fraud or confidence that the call data is not related to fraud. Further for simplicity this application has also adapted the convention that the risk score is directly related to a risk that the call data relates to fraud.

In some embodiments the voice data component compares channel data of the leg of call data to channel models associated with fraudsters and generates a channel data risk score based upon the comparison. For example the voice data component may choose a set of available fraudster channel models e.g. for 200 fraudsters and generates one risk score per potential fraudster using a specified algorithm. In some embodiments a channel data component omitted for simplicity may be included as a component of a sub module such as the agent sub module the customer account sub module and or the blacklist sub module . Alternatively the voice data component is configured to perform a match using voice and or channel data.

The telephony component may compare the leg of call data to telephony data associated with fraudsters and generate a telephony match score based upon the comparison. For example the telephony component may compare the ANI from the call data to the ANIs associated with fraudsters and generate one match score per fraudster.

The location component may compare the leg of call data to location data associated with fraudsters and generate a location risk score based upon the comparison. For example the location component may choose a set of locations associated with fraudsters e.g. for 200 fraudsters and generates one risk score per potential fraudster using a specified algorithm.

It is noteworthy that the blacklist sub module may include other suitable types of components that may be used to compare the leg of call data to information associated with fraudsters.

As with the other sub modules that have been discussed elsewhere herein other match scores may be generated by the components of the blacklist sub module and may be fused together by the fuser component . For example an aggregate number of match scores generated by comparison of the call leg data with fraudster speaker models may be combined with an aggregate number of match scores generated by comparison of the call leg with fraudster channel models to create an aggregate fused match score value that is the sum of the speaker model match scores and the channel model match scores.

The fuser sub module is configured to generate a leg fused risk score. Input for the fuser sub module may be any combination of the agent match score the account match score the fraudster match score and or the general fraud match score from the agent sub module the customer account sub module the blacklist sub module and or the general fraud sub module respectively . In one example the fuser sub module calculates the leg fused risk score based on an average such as relation leg fused risk score 10 agent 10 account fraudster fraud 4 Where 

In another example the fuser sub module calculates the leg fused risk score based on a weighted average such as illustrated by the relation leg fused risk score 10 agent 10 account fraudster fraud 4 Where A B C and D are weights which may be selected or determined using training techniques.

The fuser module is configured to generate a fused risk score from two or more legs of call data. Input for the fuser module may be any combination of the legs A N analysis module A analysis module B . . . analysis module N . In one example the fuser module calculates the per call fused risk score based on an average of the leg fused risk scores such as illustrated in the relation risk score leg risk score leg risk score 2 where leg risk scores are received from analysis module A and analysis module B. Assuming that leg risk score B 6.8 and referring to the above example risk score 3.5 6.8 2 5.2

While a simple average is illustrated above the risk score from each of the legs may be weighted and the per call fused risk score may be normalized. Other relations may be used such as a polynomial power logarithmic linear functions non linear functions rule based e.g. business rules analyses table lookup functions and combinations thereof. Various combinations of fusers and or may be combined as a single module. For example the fuser sub module and the risk score fuser module may be combined as a single module. Similarly the fuser components and may be combined as a single module. In some embodiments the fusers and are combined as a single module.

Specific databases containing audio and non audio models about a person of interest are used for illustration purposes. These may be represented using POI database . For example in the agent sub module the POI database for the voice component the telephony component and or the location component is an agent database. Similarly in the customer account sub module the POI database for the voice component the telephony component and or the location component is a whitelist database. Similarly in the blacklist sub module the POI database for the voice component the telephony component and or the location component is a blacklist or fraudster database. POI databases for other persons of interest may be constructed for various sub modules. For example a POI database may be constructed for persons who are well known by the public and are often targets of fraudsters.

Generally speaking the fuser module may generate fused risk scores from two or more risk or match scores values generated by any of a module a sub module and or a component described herein. In some instances the fuser module may normalize one or more of the match and or risk scores generated by the two or more sub modules to simplify the fusing of the risk scores together.

In some embodiments a hierarchy of fusers and are used to perform fusing in a hierarchical manner. For example in a first level of hierarchy fuser components and may each receive match scores from components within the respective sub modules and . The fuser components and each generate a sub module match score from the respective received match scores. In some embodiments the fuser components and each generate a component match score from the respective received match scores and then generate a sub module match score from the respective component match score. In the next level of hierarchy fuser sub module is configured to receive sub module match scores from fuser components and fuse the sub module match scores and generate a module risk score for a leg of call data. In the next level of hierarchy the risk score fuser module is configured to receive module risk scores from multiple fuser sub modules in multiple respective analysis modules A N. The risk score fuser module is further configured to fuse the module risk scores received from the legs of call data and generate a fused risk score.

In fusing together various risk and or match scores generated by the various modules and or sub modules the fusers and may use one of a number or combination of algorithms functions or processes. For example the fusers and may utilize linear functions non linear functions rule based e.g. business rules analyses table lookup functions and combinations thereof. Similarly the voice data component telephony component location component call duration component and or the call queue component may utilize linear functions non linear functions rule based e.g. business rules analyses table lookup functions and combinations thereof for generating match scores.

Based upon the fraudster match score generated by the blacklist sub module the controller sub module may determine if the leg of call data should be processed by one or more additional sub modules. For example if the controller sub module determines that a fraudster match score indicates that the leg of call data more than likely belongs to a fraudster the controller sub module may adjust weights parameters functions and database input used by one more of the agent sub module account sub module and or the general fraud sub module .

The fraud risk score calculated using the fuser module may be provided to the analysis module . Based on the fraud risk score the analysis module may output an alert message. Possible output types generated by the risk score processor will be discussed in greater detail below.

Again the controller sub module may determine if further processing is to be performed on the leg of call data. The leg of call data may be provided to the customer account sub module which determines if the leg of call data may be associated with a customer account. This comparison may include comparing the leg of call data to a whitelist of customers. In other instances the customer account sub module may determine customer account information from metadata included in the leg or by selecting keywords that correspond to customer account information. In some embodiments the customer account sub module may utilize biometric speaker identification functions and or ANI number matching to compare the ANI associated with the leg to ANIs associated with customer accounts.

By way of example the customer account sub module may choose a set of account holders e.g. if account identification is provided this sub module may lookup and select the specified account holders associated with this account. The customer account sub module may generate a match score for each account. Likewise the ANI of each customer account may be compared to the ANIs determined from the leg of call data.

The match score generated for the accounts may be fused with the ANI match scores to generate an overall account holder score for each account holder.

In other embodiments the leg of call data may be provided to an agent sub module which determines if the leg of call data is associated with one or more agents. Similarly to the customer account sub module the agent sub module may utilize biometric speaker identification functions to compare any of speaker data channel data and or operational data of the leg of call data to speaker models operational models and or channel models associated with agents. For example the agent sub module may also utilize location based matching to compare locations associated with agents to the location determined from the leg of call data.

The fuser sub module may fuse two or more match scores generated by at least two of the blacklist sub module the general fraud sub module the customer account sub module and the agent sub module .

Analysis of the fused risk scores may be accomplished by execution of the risk score analysis module . The risk score analysis module may employ any of a variety of functions for analyzing the risk score. The risk score analysis module may generate reason codes which are associated with fused risk scores along with confidence values for fused risk scores. The confidence value may include a relative comparison of fused risk scores. For example a confidence value may be calculated that represents a comparison between the blacklist fused match score and the account holder fused match score. A high confidence value that a leg is associated with a fraudster may be determined when the blacklist fused match score is relatively large compared to the account holder fused match score.

Other types of similar weighted analyses may be utilized by the risk score analysis module . Additionally the risk score analysis module may generate a plurality of different types of outputs. Exemplary output generated by the risk score analysis module may comprise a single overall risk score per leg confidence scores for fused risk scores a reason code multiple sub module risk scores could be fused risk scores per leg a list of reason codes one per sub module or component and diarized audio of a leg and or a diarization confidence for a leg.

In some embodiments the risk score analysis module may also update a database of call data with added entries tags for score reason code and so forth. Additionally a local database tool or a web based tool can be used to query and view results e.g. score reason code etc. for one or more legs. The user of the tool can query by date range score etc. to select subset of legs.

In additional embodiments the risk score analysis module may generate and or transmit generated alerts via CTI Computer Telephony Integration e mail IM Instant Messenger SMS Short Messaging Service custom API integration and so forth. Alerts can be sent for each call as soon as a fused risk score is available. Alternatively alerts can be sent in a batch periodically e.g. asynchronously . In some instances alerts can be sent for fused risk scores that exceed a threshold value. For example if a blacklist fused risk score exceeds five an alert email may be provided to an agent associated with the call.

The following include possible actions that may be performed in response to receiving a fused risk score send an alert indicative of risk send an alert indicative of risk if a fused risk score exceeds a threshold value send an alert indicative of risk if a fused risk score and its associated confidence value exceed thresholds flag the call for further review queue the call up for enrollment into a whitelist queue the call for enrollment into a blacklist place the leg of call data into a precursor database accept a transaction associated with the call deny a transaction associated with a call combine a fused risk score with other alternative risk indicators e.g. from other sources such as credit check other fraud detection tools and systems trigger a follow up action such as asking the caller to provide further information and or asking the caller to go into the retail branch store to execute their transaction.

The method may also include a step of generating a component match score for each component in a sub module. Examples of sub modules for processing call data include an agent sub module a customer account sub module a blacklist sub module a general fraud sub module and or the like. In various embodiments the component match score is generated using components in the sub modules including a voice data component a telephony component a location component a call duration component a call queue component and or the like. For example the voice data component the telephony component and the location component may generate the component match based on a comparison and match between the call data and information in a database of persons of interest e.g. the POI database . Information in a POI database includes metadata voice models channel models and or the like.

A step comprises generating a fused component match score from the component match scores. The component match scores may be fused e.g. using the fuser component and to generate fused component match scores. For example in the blacklist sub module the fuser component may fuse the component match scores from each of the voice data component the telephony component and the location component . The fuser component may for example average the component match scores for the voice data component with the telephony component and the location component for a first person of interest in the POI database to generate a fused component match score. The fuser component may likewise generate a second fused component match score for second person of interest the POI database . Similarly the agent sub module the customer account sub module and the general fraud sub module may generate fused component match scores.

In a step a sub module match score is generated from the fused component match scores. For example the fuser component in the blacklist sub module may generate the sub module match score from the first and second fused component match scores. The fuser component may for example select the maximum fused component match score. Similarly the agent sub module the customer account sub module and the general fraud sub module may generate sub module match scores.

In a step a module risk score is generated from the sub module match scores. For example the fuser sub module may receive sub module match scores from the agent sub module the customer account sub module the blacklist sub module and the general fraud sub module . The fuser sub module may for example average the sub module match scores to generate the module risk score. The module risk score may represent a risk of fraud for the received leg of call data. Other legs may be analyzed in a similar manner to generate module risk scores for each leg.

In a step two or more module risk scores are fused together from two or more legs respectively. For example each of multiple analysis modules A N may generate a module risk score. A fuser module may receive module risk scores from multiple legs and generate a call fused risk score based on the module risk scores.

Next the method may include a step of storing the call fused risk score in a storage device that is communicatively couplable with the scoring system . Alternatively or in addition to storing the fused risk score the method may include a step of comparing the fused risk score to a threshold value followed by a step of storing the call data in at least one of a whitelist a blacklist and a precursor database in response to the comparison.

It will be understood that the method may include additional or fewer or steps that those listed above. Additionally optional steps have been shown as dotted lined objects in the Figures.

The components shown in are depicted as being connected via a single bus . The components may be connected through one or more data transport means. Processor unit and main memory may be connected via a local microprocessor bus and the mass storage device peripheral device s portable storage device and display system may be connected via one or more input output I O buses.

Mass storage device which may be implemented with a magnetic disk drive or an optical disk drive is a non volatile storage device for storing data and instructions for use by processor unit . Mass storage device may store the system software for implementing embodiments of the present technology for purposes of loading that software into main memory .

Portable storage device operates in conjunction with a portable non volatile storage medium such as a floppy disk compact disk digital video disc or USB storage device to input and output data and code to and from the computing system of . The system software for implementing embodiments of the present technology may be stored on such a portable medium and input to the computing system via the portable storage device .

Input devices provide a portion of a user interface. Input devices may include an alphanumeric keypad such as a keyboard for inputting alpha numeric and other information or a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball stylus or cursor direction keys. Additionally the system as shown in includes output devices . Suitable output devices include speakers printers network interfaces and monitors.

Display system may include a liquid crystal display LCD or other suitable display device. Display system receives textual and graphical information and processes the information for output to the display device.

Peripherals may include any type of computer support device to add additional functionality to the computing system. Peripheral device s may include a modem or a router.

The components provided in the computing system of are those typically found in computing systems that may be suitable for use with embodiments of the present technology and are intended to represent a broad category of such computer components that are well known in the art. Thus the computing system of may be a personal computer hand held computing system telephone mobile computing system workstation server minicomputer mainframe computer or any other computing system. The computer may also include different bus configurations networked platforms multi processor platforms etc. Various operating systems may be used including Unix Linux Windows Macintosh OS Palm OS Android iPhone OS and other suitable operating systems.

It is noteworthy that any hardware platform suitable for performing the processing described herein is suitable for use with the technology. Computer readable storage media refer to any medium or media that participate in providing instructions to a central processing unit CPU a processor a microcontroller or the like. Such media may take forms including but not limited to non volatile and volatile media such as optical or magnetic disks and dynamic memory respectively. Common forms of computer readable storage media include a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic storage medium a CD ROM disk digital video disk DVD any other optical storage medium RAM PROM EPROM a FLASHEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative and not restrictive of the broad disclosure and that this disclosure is not limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other modifications may occur to those ordinarily skilled in the art upon studying this disclosure. In an area of technology such as this where growth is fast and further advancements are not easily foreseen the disclosed embodiments may be readily modifiable in arrangement and detail as facilitated by enabling technological advancements without departing from the principals of the present disclosure.

In the foregoing specification specific embodiments of the present disclosure have been described. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of present disclosure. The benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential features or elements of any or all the claims. The disclosure is defined solely by the appended claims including any amendments made during the pendency of this application and all equivalents of those claims as issued.

