---

title: Call waiting network identification
abstract: A multi-mode device for providing call waiting network identification. The device can establish a first call through a first network. While communicating through the first network, a second call can be received from a second network. The first network can be independent of the second network and operate separately on the multi-mode device. The multi-mode device can inject an alert specific to the second network into the call through the first network signaling the call through the second network. By providing the alert, the user of the multi-mode device can determine if the call waiting tone is for business or personal giving the user the chance to ignore the call and continue talking without having to take the handset away from their face, activate the screen and view the caller identification information to decide whether or not to take the call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08903072&OS=08903072&RS=08903072
owner: Mitel Networks Corporation
number: 08903072
owner_city: Ottawa
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120228
---
This disclosure generally relates to electronic devices and more particularly to a multi mode device with multiple network connectivity capabilities that provides a call waiting alert based on the specific network a call is coming from.

A Dual Mode or Multi Mode device can be an electronic device that can connect with multiple networks. By way of a non limiting example the electronic device can connect with a wireless carrier and a Wi Fi network for placing or receiving calls. Multi mode devices can share components within them. Beyond the hardware challenges there are also several software integration challenges when multiple networks are placing calls for the device. This leads to real difficulties in component integration and so to larger and more complex phones typical in today s market.

In Bring Your Own Device BYOD scenarios it can be practical and common that a mobile user be active on both a mobile and Wi Fi network simultaneously. As an illustration suppose that if a user has their own personal device which they are using for work purposes they can still wish to get their personal calls through a mobile network while at the same time getting their work calls through a Private Branch Exchange PBX Wi Fi network. In dual or multi mode scenarios the device must deal with call collisions. It can be important for the user to understand which network the call is arriving from in order to determine whether or not to interrupt the ongoing call.

In contrast to fixed phones on mobile devices the handset must be removed from the ear to view the caller identification to determine whether or not the call can be important. This can interrupt the communication. Knowing beforehand whether or not it is a business or personal call can prevent this interruption. When the caller identification is not provided by the network for example the owner of the personal device has not opted to pay for this feature it is impossible to determine who is calling. If the business line supports caller identification the user can know that they can look at their device to see who is calling. If the call is from the mobile network the user has no way to see who is calling.

A need therefore exists for a call waiting network identification that overcomes those issues described above. The network specific call waiting indication should provide advanced notice to the multi mode device user which network the call is originating from. This context can allow the user to decide whether or not to interrupt the ongoing call or whether or not additional information for example caller identification can be available to aid in the decision to interrupt the call. These as well as other related advantages will be described in the present disclosure.

The description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of presently preferred embodiments of the disclosure and is not intended to represent the only forms in which the present disclosure can be constructed and or utilized. The description sets forth the functions and the sequence of steps for constructing and operating the disclosure in connection with the illustrated embodiments. It is to be understood however that the same or equivalent functions and sequences can be accomplished by different embodiments that are also intended to be encompassed within the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

Generally described the present disclosure relates to communications and more particularly to a call waiting network identification. In an illustrative embodiment a multi mode device is provided. The device can establish a first call through a personal carrier network. While communicating through the personal carrier network a second call can be received from a Wi Fi network through a Private Branch Exchange PBX . The personal carrier network can be independent of the Wi Fi network and operate separately on the device. The device can inject an alert specific to the Wi Fi network into the call from the personal carrier network signifying the call through the Wi Fi network. Through this the device bridges both the personal carrier network and Wi Fi network and appropriately identifies the Wi Fi network to the user. In turn the alert can act as advance notice that a caller identification is available for Wi Fi business calls even when the user does not pay for this service on their personal carrier network.

Numerous advantages can be offered by the illustrative embodiment described above. By providing the alert the user of the multi mode device can determine if the call waiting tone is for business or personal reasons giving the user the chance to ignore the call and continue talking without having to take the handset away from their face activate the screen and view the caller identification information to decide whether or not to take the call. Furthermore current systems allowing multi mode features would not be able to handle both of the calls from the personal carrier network and Wi Fi network and in some instances the second call coming from the Wi Fi network would be sent directly to voicemail or dropped. Many additional advantages of the present disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the relevant art as provided for in the following description.

Exemplary environments for providing call waiting network identification will be shown in . depicts exemplary hardware and software features of a multi mode device. will show setup and activation of the device while depict exemplary processes for call waiting network identification. These FIGURES are not intended to be limiting but rather provided to disclose features and concepts herein.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an exemplary environment for a device in communication with multiple network sources in accordance with one or more aspects of the present disclosure is provided. The device can allow for both carrier and Wi Fi calls simultaneously as shown. With the carrier network the device can make or receive carrier calls using a first source. These carrier calls can be transmitted between a cell tower and to the carrier network . The carrier network can also communicate to the device through other techniques including direct satellite feed.

Through a second source the multi mode device can communicate with a PBX to interact with a Wi Fi network. The PBX can provide Wi Fi through a Wireless Access Point WAP . Data can be exchanged or a call can be made through with the PBX . The PBX can be connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN .

By connecting with multiple networks and unique calling scenarios can be implemented by the multi mode device . If a user is on a carrier call through the carrier network and a Wi Fi call arrives to their device through the PBX connected to the PSTN the Wi Fi call waiting in previous implementations is not triggered. Similarly if the user is on a Wi Fi call and a carrier call arrives at the device the PBX cannot play call waiting tones signaling the receipt of the carrier call. These challenges are due to the fact that call waiting is typically injected by the network provider. This is true on multi mode devices where call waiting is a feature that is commonly charged for in the form of a monthly fee. Issues arise when the caller is on a carrier call and the PBX has no knowledge the device is in use. Likewise when the device is on a PBX call the carrier will believe the device is not in a call and will present an incoming call normally.

In one embodiment the service provider can be capable of injecting a call waiting tone into the voice path of the device . This can be true for mobile operators and PBX vendors. This can be a feature that can be enabled based on licensing or a service fee. If the device is capable of supporting more than one call simultaneously the device can insert call waiting tones to alert the user of the additional call. A different tone for each caller can be provided. The point of call waiting however is to minimally disrupt the ongoing voice call so using this to uniquely identify the caller has limitations.

For purposes of illustration the user of the device can be on a phone call through the carrier network . During that call another call can be received from the hotel concierge through the hotel PBX indicating that the user has received a free promotional spa package. The store at which the user had a suit tailored can also call the user to tell them that their suit is finished. Based on this scenario more than two networks can be communicated with to receive calls each having a different priority. Priorities can be set for each of these networks as well as a unique call waiting network identification.

Those illustrations described above represented a set of networks that the multi mode device can work with. Call waiting network identification can be performed across multiple network types. These can include but are not limited to 2G 3G 4G Long Term Evolution LTE private Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Wi Fi Bluetooth and Near Field Communications NFC . As will be shown below the device can coordinate collisions by adding in call waiting alerts on the end device and more specifically providing a specific pattern through a tone and or vibration to signal which network the incoming communication is on.

Turning to a block diagram illustrating typical components of the multi mode device in accordance with one or more aspects of the present disclosure is provided. The hardware and software components of a typical device for receiving call waiting network identification will now be shown. In typical embodiments the device can have a processor for implementing logic a memory a display and a keypad . The display of the device can be a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of display commonly used in device . The display can be touch sensitive and can act as an input device. The keypad can be a push button numeric dialing pad such as on a typical telephone a multi key keyboard such as a conventional keyboard or any other device for inputting textual data.

The memory generally includes both volatile memory e.g. RAM and non volatile memory e.g. ROM Flash Memory or the like . The non volatile portion of the memory can be used to store persistent information which should not be lost when the device is powered down. The device can include an operating system OS such as Windows CE or Windows Mobile available from Microsoft Corporation Android from Google Inc. or other OS. The OS can reside in the memory and be executed on the processor .

The memory can also include one or more device managers for interacting with one or more I O devices. The device managers can be software installed on the device . A device manager can correspond to each I O device. In addition to the device manager one or more client applications can be loaded into memory and run on or in association with the OS . In the present disclosure a client application can provide the call waiting network identification based on the source a call is coming from. Also within the memory configurations can be run on the device in association with the call waiting network identification client application .

In operation and as will be shown in further details below the call waiting network identification client application can run with the configurations to determine the calling source and provide a call waiting alert for the incoming source. The alert can be specific to the network. By way of a non limiting example two beeps can be provided by the multi mode device when the source is incoming from the hotel PBX and a vibratory mechanism on the device can be activated when the source is coming from the store PBX shown in . While primarily described as software the call waiting network identification client application can be run on hardware software or combination of hardware and software.

The memory can also include a collection of one or more APIs for facilitating wireless communication between the multi mode device and one or more remote. I O devices. The APIs can be invoked by the call waiting network identification client application for operating between networks. The APIs can be used to recognize and control the one or more remote I O devices. In this manner the device is able to take advantage of services or functionalities of the one or more remote I O devices.

The multi mode device can also include a power supply which can be implemented as one or more batteries fuel cells or other sources of electrical power. The power supply might further include an external power source such as an AC adapter or a powered docking cradle that supplements or recharges the batteries. The device can include one or more audio visual and or vibratory notification mechanisms . The mobile device can also include a wireless module such as a Wi Fi module that facilitates wireless connectivity between the device and the sources.

While a multi mode device is described throughout the present disclosure dual mode devices or the like can also be used. The call waiting network identification client application can be operable with the OS . The OS can treat Session Initiation Protocol SIP and carriers entirely independent from one another. Typically previous devices did not provide any form of native call waiting between the two models. In fact there was very little effort undertaken by the OS to co manage the two phone models for example mobile and Voice over IP VoIP .

The call waiting network identification client application on the multi mode device can provide a number of features and services that are related to calls or communications coming in from the variety of sources. The client application can play a different call waiting tone depending on the network origin of a call for example whether the call is coming from a mobile versus VoIP network or between multiple VoIP service providers. The device can also provide context between business and personal calls without interrupting the user and forcing them to take the phone away from their ear to read the caller identification.

When caller identification is not provided the user can still be aware of the network origin of the call and can make decisions to interrupt the current call or not. When caller identification is provided on one network and not the other the network specific call waiting indication can serve as a prompt to the user that caller identification is available and can be consulted to determine whether or not to interrupt the call. The multi mode device can also be used to play standard call waiting tones for both networks to provide a seamless user experience across multiple networks. This can be useful in deployment scenarios like hospitality where the hotel offers VoIP on top the users existing mobile services. Typically the user of the device does not care which network calls are coming from but the client can still handle call collisions resulting from multiple service providers.

Referring to a flow chart depicting illustrative processes for call waiting network identification setup in accordance with one or more aspects of the present disclosure is provided. The processes can begin at block . At block the multi mode device can determine the source or network for which to setup. At block the device can give a priority to the source. This can be optional and in one embodiment priorities can be based on the importance of network on which a call is received. By way of a non limiting example a phone call received off of a personal line can have a lower priority than that of a business line. Alternatively priorities are not set for the sources.

The multi mode device can associate the source with a call waiting identification based on its priority at block . In one embodiment the source can be associated with a call waiting identification regardless of its priority. Priorities can be used to determine whether the incoming call can be signaled to the device or disregarded. By way of a non limiting example a personal call can be disregarded when the user is on a business call. In one embodiment the number of beeps or signals provided can be less for a lower priority network while those that have a higher importance can be signaled more frequently. The processes for setting up the call waiting network identification can end at block .

The table can be established and stored within the configurations of the multi mode device . Logic can be included within the client application to differentiate the priorities within the table with the sources and apply appropriate call waiting identifications. In one embodiment the configurations can provide varying levels of ring tones or vibrations. Those networks having higher priorities can be rung more frequently and those having a lower priority can be sent to voicemail or rung less frequently. Call waiting identifications can also be standardized for each of the sources without regard to priorities.

After a call is established through a first network the multi mode device can provide a network specific call waiting indication when another call is received from a different network. This indication can provide advanced notice to a device and signal which network the call is originating from. The indication can allow the user to decide whether or not to interrupt the ongoing call through the first network or whether or not additional information is available to aid in the decision to interrupt the call.

Turning to a flow chart depicting illustrative processes for call waiting network identification in accordance with one or more aspects of the present disclosure is provided. Typically calls from the same network can be handled by that network. When calls are received from different networks the following processes can be used to provide a call waiting network identification. The processes can begin at block .

At block the multi mode device can be connected to a first source where communications can go through. Calls can be made or received through the first source. At block a call can be received through a second source. An SIP client application can be designed to be notified of incoming carrier calls using existing APIs provided by the OS . Varying networks can provide calls to the device . The networks can be independent and separate from each other. By way of a non limiting example the carrier network would be independent of the PSTN operating through the PBX of .

The multi mode device can identify the source of the received call at block . Different sources can be used to provide different call waiting identifications. For example a call received from a company network can have three beeps followed by one second of silence while the hotel network can have a single beep followed by three seconds of silence. At block the call waiting identification can be injected into the communication of the first source. When injected the beeps would be added onto the call from the first network or laid on top of it. While on a VoIP call with the first source the SIP client application can be notified of the carrier call by virtue of an OS callback.

At decision block the user of the client application can choose to ignore the call. If ignored the call from the second source can be disregarded at block . This can cause the far end caller to continue to hear a ring back until the carrier moves the call to voicemail. Alternatively the SIP client can choose to inject a tone into the ongoing VoIP conversation and or vibrate to signal to the user that a carrier call is waiting. The tone played is specific to the carrier for example one beep. The device can be configured for carrier calls to trigger vibration. At block caller identification can be provided if supported by the incoming call network. The processes can end at block .

For purposes of illustration when multiple VoIP networks are used that is a VoIP call is active and another VoIP call arrives the multi mode device can inject a different call waiting tone. The network call waiting tones can be configured differently or to maintain standard based recommendations the appropriate country tone plan can be followed for carrier calls and VoIP calls can vibrate or vice versa . When on a carrier call and a VoIP call arrives the SIP client application can check the mobile phone state using appropriate OS APIs before emitting audible alerting tones. If the device is active on a mobile call the applicable VoIP call waiting tone can be injected into the call.

At block the multi mode device can communicate through a first source. A call can be made or received through the first source. At block the device can receive a call through a second source. The second source is independent of the first source for example a Wi Fi source through a PBX and a mobile carrier. At decision block the device can determine whether the second source is a personal carrier to determine whether the incoming call should be sent to voicemail. For purposes of illustration it can be assumed for this instance that a personal carrier has a lower priority as shown in the table of .

If the network is a personal carrier then the call coming from the personal carrier is sent to voicemail at block . Otherwise a call waiting identification can be injected into the call going through the first source at block . A SIP client application can inject a tone into the ongoing VoIP conversation and or vibrate to signal to the user that a carrier call is waiting. The tone played is specified to the carrier or the device can be configured for carrier calls to trigger vibration. When on a carrier call and a VoIP arrives the SIP client application can check the state of the multi mode device using appropriate OS APIs before emitting audible alerting tones. This can remove any interference provided through the injection of the call waiting identification. If available the device can provide caller identification at block . The processes can end at block .

The call waiting network identification client application which provided the network identification injection can be enhanced to provide additional behaviors related to call routing. Call waiting tones for the networks can be standardized. Furthermore personal call waiting tones can be implemented into the application meaning a different tone for each caller can be programmed. In addition other forms of communications can be handled including texts videos etc.

The data structures and code in which the present disclosure can be implemented can typically be stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The storage can be any device or medium that can store code and or data for use by a computer system. The non transitory computer readable storage medium includes but is not limited to volatile memory non volatile memory magnetic and optical storage devices such as disk drives magnetic tape CDs compact discs DVDs digital versatile discs or digital video discs or other media capable of storing code and or data now known or later developed.

The methods and processes described in the disclosure can be embodied as code and or data which can be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium as described above. When a computer system reads and executes the code and or data stored on the non transitory computer readable storage medium the computer system performs the methods and processes embodied as data structures and code and stored within the non transitory computer readable storage medium. Furthermore the methods and processes described can be included in hardware modules. For example the hardware modules can include but are not limited to application specific integrated circuit ASIC chips field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and other programmable logic devices now known or later developed. When the hardware modules are activated the hardware modules perform the methods and processes included within the hardware modules.

The technology described herein can be implemented as logical operations and or modules. The logical operations can be implemented as a sequence of processor implemented executed steps and as interconnected machine or circuit modules. Likewise the descriptions of various component modules can be provided in terms of operations executed or effected by the modules. The resulting implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance requirements of the underlying system implementing the described technology. Accordingly the logical operations making up the embodiment of the technology described herein are referred to variously as operations steps objects or modules. It should be understood that logical operations can be performed in any order unless explicitly claimed otherwise or a specific order is inherently necessitated by the claim language.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure can be programmed using an object oriented programming language such as SmallTalk Java C Ada or C . Other object oriented programming languages can also be used. Alternatively functional scripting and or logical programming languages can be used. Various aspects of this disclosure can be implemented in a non programmed environment for example documents created in HTML XML or other format that when viewed in a window of a browser program render aspects of a GUI or perform other functions. Various aspects of the disclosure can be implemented as programmed or non programmed elements or any combination thereof.

The foregoing description is provided to enable any person skilled in the relevant art to practice the various embodiments described herein. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the relevant art and generic principles defined herein can be applied to other embodiments. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown and described herein but are to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language of the claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically stated but rather one or more. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various embodiments described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the relevant art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims.

