---

title: Hair restoration
abstract: A surgical apparatus for hair removal surgery includes an extraction module, a visualization component and a bridging component. The extraction module includes independently controllable coring and clipping devices. The visualization component acts to align a target hair follicle with the extraction module. The extraction module also includes at least one independently controllable suction port. The instrument also includes a dissection module having a tissue separating device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08998931&OS=08998931&RS=08998931
owner: PiloFocus, Inc.
number: 08998931
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121017
---
U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 547 898 filed Oct. 17 2011 entitled ENDOSCOPIC HAIR RESTORATION and

The present disclosure relates to an instrument that may be used for Hair Restoration Surgery HRS or any subdermal tissue removal procedure without altering the integrity of the overlying skin surface. The surgical method of donor follicle removal in HRS is based on the principal of donor dominance wherein the region of the scalp in which the hair is destined to persist throughout a person s lifetime known as the donor area will continue to grow in the same fashion when transplanted to the recipient area or the scalp zone of non permanent hair growth.

Original HRS techniques included the excision of large punch grafts from the donor area and transplantation to the recipient area. Utilization of these large grafts was necessary in order to ensure hair survival after transplantation. Smaller grafts or implantation into smaller recipient sites were often not feasible due to the low graft viability secondary to decreased blood perfusion of transplanted grafts. While this large graft method enabled transplanted graft growth within the recipient area the grafts often had an unnatural pluggy appearance and the punched out scars in the donor area left an unattractive buckshot type pattern in the back of a patient s head.

To overcome these methodical and aesthetic shortcomings of many original HRS techniques an alternative method for donor hair harvesting was proposed the strip harvest technique. This alternative approach involved the following procedural steps removing a strip of hair follicle bearing skin from the donor region suturing the donor wound closed dissecting out each individual follicle or cluster of follicles a.k.a. a follicular unit FU and transplanting each individual FU separately in the recipient area. Each FU may contain one or more individual hair follicles and can be defined based on the naturally occurring arrangement of a bulb region. An FU may be classified based on its caliber and the quantity of hairs it contains as a single haired FU a fine single haired FU a double haired FU a fine double haired FU a triple haired FU or a follicular family containing four or more intact hair follicles.

The approach known as micrografting or follicular unit transplanting FUT helped to create a more natural and less pluggy appearance in the recipient area than that resulting from the large grafts. Furthermore this new approach left only a linear scar in the donor area rather than a more obvious buckshot pattern.

In order to achieve a maximum number of grafts via the micrografting technique many patients requested wider donor strip removal which would in turn yield more donor hair follicles. A consequence of this more aggressive approach is that patients are increasingly left with relatively large 2 10 mm and obvious linear scars in the donor portion of their head. To reduce or eliminate this aesthetically displeasing result a process known as Follicular Unit Extraction FUE was developed. In FUE each individual follicular unit is meticulously punched out from the donor area with a small biopsy punch and then transplanted into the recipient area. This differs from the original approach to HRS in that FUE involves the transfer of only individual FU s rather than large 4 5 mm punch grafts.

However several disadvantages persisted with the advent of FUE a high percentage up to 40 of hairs are transected thus limiting their survival a moth eaten scarring pattern often still remains though to a lesser degree than seen with the original larger punch grafts from where FUs are extracted and a considerable number of patients up to 30 are not candidates for FUE based on their hair characteristics e.g. light color or considerable and unpredictable curl beneath the skin surface that present undue challenges for the surgeon.

The technique described herein allows for 1 the isolation of an intact hair follicle with maximal tissue both dermal and subcutaneous surrounding the stem cell containing portion of the follicle without traumatizing the overlying skin surface and 2 eliminates the stigma of any apparent scar in the donor area from which the hair is harvested.

A challenge associated with extracting harvesting tissue that includes essential portions beneath the skin surface often pertains to determination of the location depth and position of the desired tissue. Without cutting or altering the integrity of the overlying skin surface obtaining the desired tissue segment beneath the skin is especially difficult. In order to overcome these challenges a device is disclosed herein to enable a user to 1 manipulate a visualization device located outside of the skin surface to identify a target tissue and 2 harvest tissue located beneath the skin surface based on the information provided by the visualization device. Movement of the visualization device and the internal issue extraction device are directly tied to the movements of the operator performing each movement outside of the skin surface.

Without cutting or altering the overlying skin surface the design described herein enables a precisely controlled extraction harvest of desired tissue that accounts for the borders of the desired tissue the angle and direction of the tissue e.g. hair follicle as it is positioned beneath the skin surface and the depth of penetration of the desired tissue all while effectively avoiding inclusion of undesirable surrounding tissue in the harvest or injuring vital vessels or nerve plexes in the process.

The direct association between the visualization manipulation of a probe located outside of the body and the extraction harvesting module located within the body that approaches but does not directly touch the outerlying probe enables this unique achievement.

In an aspect of the technology for a hair restoration system the system includes a body wherein the body includes a handle portion a bridging component and a distal arm wherein the bridging component is between the handle portion and the distal arm. The system also includes a dissection module removably coupled to the body the dissection module having a tissue separating device. The system also includes an extraction module wherein the extraction module includes a coring component a plurality of cutting features and at least one tissue removal port wherein the tissue removal port is carried by the distal arm wherein the extraction module includes a central extraction axis.

In another example of the system the central extraction axis is perpendicular to a first axis wherein the extraction module is pivotable around the first axis to an aligned orientation with a target tissue.

In yet another example of the system the external reference module is a visualization component wherein the visualization component includes a central visualization axis.

In yet another example of the system the visualization module is always permanently aligned with the central extraction axis of the extraction module.

In yet another example of the system the visualization component includes an ultrasound visualization device.

In yet another example of the system the external reference module has an imaging system wherein the imaging system includes a light source for illuminating a target wherein the imaging system further includes a viewing port for receiving an image of the target.

In yet another example of the system the system includes a plurality of independently controllable tissue removal implements wherein each tissue removal implement is coupled to a corresponding suction port.

In yet another example of the system the system includes a plurality of control modules wherein each control module is configured to control the operation of a corresponding one of the suction ports. In yet another example of the system the removal port is a portion of a tissue removal pathway wherein the tissue removal pathway is in fluid communication with a tissue reservoir.

In yet another example of the system the system includes a motor unit wherein the motor unit has a motor shaft wherein the motor shaft is in communication with a gear system.

In yet another example of the system the system includes a dermal shifter wherein the dermal shifter has a plurality of needles wherein the plurality of needles are actuatable to align a target tissue with the central extraction axis.

In another aspect of the technology for a hair restoration system the system includes a body wherein the body includes a handle portion and a distal portion. The system also includes an extraction module wherein the extraction module has a tissue extraction component and a tissue removal component wherein the tissue extraction component has a central extraction axis a cannulated element and a plurality of cutting features wherein the tissue removal component is a portion of a tissue removal pathway wherein the extraction module is carried by the distal portion wherein an activation component is in communication with the extraction module.

In another example of the system the cannulated element has a coring cannula and a clipping cannula wherein the clippling cannula includes the plurality of cutting features.

In yet another example of the system the system includes a dissection module wherein the dissection module is maneuverable to separate tissue layers to create a cavity.

In yet another example of the system the system includes an external reference module wherein the external reference module is configured to be manipulated to identify and gather information about a target tissue wherein the external reference module is external to an exterior tissue surface.

In yet another example of the system the extraction module is maneuverable within the cavity along an interior tissue surface.

In yet another example of the system the external reference module is communicably attached to the extraction module.

In yet another example of the system the extraction module is configured to subcutaneously extract a hair follicle.

In yet another example of the system the system includes an extraction trigger and an alignment adjuster wherein the alignment adjuster is carried by a cable that is in communication with the extraction module wherein when the alignment adjuster is actuated the central extraction axis is pivotable about a first axis to align with a target tissue wherein when the extraction trigger is actuated the extraction module removes the target tissue along the tissue removal pathway.

In an example of a method for hair follicle extraction the method includes creating an incision in a layer of tissue separating the layer of tissue from an underlying layer of tissue to create a cavity inserting a distal arm of an instrument into the cavity wherein the distal arm carries an extraction module wherein the extraction module has a central extraction axis positioning the instrument such that the visualization module is close to a superficial surface of the tissue wherein the visualization module and the extraction module are always aligned using the visualization module to identify a target piece of tissue and actuating the instrument such that the extraction module removes the target piece of tissue.

In another example of the method extraction module further includes a suction port wherein when the target piece of tissue is removed the target piece of tissue is carried along a removal pathway through the suction port.

In yet another example of the method the method further includes obtaining an image of exterior skin tissue from outside the cavity.

In yet another example of the method the method further includes applying a suction force to the target piece of tissue through the suction port wherein applying suction to the target piece of tissue includes controlling the suction port via at least one of a mechanical control apparatus and an electronic control apparatus.

In yet another example of the method the method further includes removing the target piece of tissue along a removal pathway wherein the removal pathway is in fluid communication with at least one tissue isolation container.

In yet another example of the method the isolation container has a sensor wherein the sensor identifies the removed target piece of tissue.

In yet another example of the method the method further includes aligning the central extraction axis with the target piece of tissue.

In yet another example of the method the instrument includes an extraction trigger and an alignment adjuster wherein the alignment adjuster is carried by a cable that is in communication with the extraction module. The method further includes actuating the alignment adjuster to align the central extraction axis with the target piece of tissue wherein the method further includes actuating the extraction trigger to advance the extraction module towards the target piece of tissue and to cut the target piece of tissue away from surrounding tissue.

Referring to a patient may experience hair loss in patterns consistent with androgenetic alopecia male pattern baldness or female pattern hair loss or in more random focal or diffuse patterns as seen from various non androgenetic pathologies such as cicatricial alopecia. The most commonly affected areas in androgenetic alopecia are a frontal third a midscalp and a vertex or crown . Although hair loss frequently involves the scalp it can occur in other areas of the body. Surgical hair restoration harvests hair follicles from a donor area and transplants the intact follicles to the regions of hair loss which include but are not limited to regions and .

After full growth of the transplanted follicles has been achieved the post operative patient enjoys a fuller head of hair thicker eyebrows fuller eyelashes or even more substantial facial or body hair. In endoscopic surgical hair restoration or piloscopy individual intact hair follicles or follicular units are removed with minimal or no disruption of the stratum corneum by an endoscopic device inserted beneath the scalp.

Referring to a cross section of a hair follicle shows the native tissue surrounding a hair follicle . Spanning three separate layers of the skin an epidermis a dermis and a fat containing subcutaneous layer the follicle protrudes through the skin surface at the most superficial layer of the epidermis the stratum corneum . The intact hair follicle includes the components that enable self renewal of the follicle after it is transplanted into viable autologous tissue. The two critical regions in which stem cells abound are a bulge region located near an erector pilli muscle and a follicular bulb which contains a dermal papilla .

Communication between these two stem cell enriched areas promotes hair follicle regeneration. Other components of an intact hair follicle include a hair shaft an inner root sheath an outer root sheath and a sebaceous gland .

In endoscopic surgical hair restoration or piloscopy each hair follicle or follicular unit FU is approached and removed from beneath the surface of the skin. Specifically each individual follicle may be visualized from a uniform plane that is surgically created within the subcutaneous layer about 1 5 mm deep to the follicular bulbs and then excised with a small punch blade as discussed in greater detail below. Excision may incorporate a 1 7 mm portion of peri follicular subcutaneous tissue deep to the follicular bulb as well as the hair follicle in its entirety while leaving intact the stratum corneum that lies superficial to the native tissue that originally surrounded the extracted follicle. The plane may be a tissue cleavage plane or a flat geometric plane.

Referring to prior to the initiation of hair restoration surgery sterile saline tumescence typically about 1 10 mL cm may be applied to a scalp at two levels within the area from which hair follicles will be harvested a first superficial level approximately 2 mm below the skin surface and a second deep level approximately 4 5 mm deep to the skin surface. The saline tumescence may serve a number of purposes in tissue manipulation. In superficial tissue it may be used as a form of anesthesia. Together the tumescent applications at superficial level and deep level may facilitate extraction of the follicular bulb from its native surrounding tissue. The first superficial layer of tumescence may help distance the follicle of interest from neighboring follicles and increases skin turgor in patients with otherwise easily broken tissue. The second tumescent layer may distance the dermal papilla from any nearby vascular and nerve plexus deep to the follicle bulbs thus helping define plane in which a visual cavity can subsequently be created.

Saline tumescence may also serve to align the desired hair follicles into a more predictable orientation e.g. perpendicular with respect to the overlying skin surface. Referring to FIGS. and A C an endoscopic approach to follicular harvesting may use an endoscope which may also be referred to as a piloscope to dissect a plane of subcutaneous tissue deep to hair follicles in a scalp of a patient . A single unilateral full thickness 1 cm incision may be made in a post auricular zone of scalp . Alternative size and shape incisions may be made. Multiple incisions may also be made.

In the example shown in a 0.5 mm cannulated metal trocar containing a 0.4 mm endoscope attached to a thin linear cutting blade is inserted into incision to dissect a plane of sub follicular subcutaneous tissue creating a layer of separation deep to the follicular bulbs. The dissection may be also be made using a blunt module or instrument.

The layer of separation is for instance 1 5 mm deep to the follicular bulbs. In some embodiments the layer of separation is 1 3 mm deep to the follicular bulbs so as to enable close visual proximity to the follicular bulbs without altering their structural integrity. In general the depth of the layer of separation is such that an operator of endoscope can visualize and separate connective tissue beneath the plane of the follicular bulbs while minimizing trauma to the blood vessels and nerve vessels in the vicinity.

The layer of separation may then be converted to an enlarged visual cavity in which an operator of endoscope may observe the deep structures such as the bulb of each FU prior to excising the intact FU from its native surrounding tissue for subsequent transplantation into the surgical recipient area e.g. regions and of .

For example the enlarged visual cavity may be created by humidified insufflation external traction or balloon expansion.

Referring to cutting blade may be attached to a distal end of endoscope and may be manipulated by an operator via a hand held engagement device e.g. a trigger at a proximal end of endoscope . The cutting blade may alternatively be placed on another location on endoscope . Cutting blade may typically be about 0.5 6.0 mm in length. Trigger may control cutting blade to move rotationally facilitating the cutting and separation of soft subcutaneous adipose tissue. When activated cutting blade may advance dissection by pushing forward and downward in a clockwise or counter clockwise fashion away from distal end of endoscope . In addition to the forward and downward motion that advances cutting blade during dissection an operating lever including a tape a driver wheel and a steering wheel attached to cutting blade may enable a side to side sweeping motion of blade which enlarges the plane of dissection. In some embodiments tape is formed of multiple strips of tape to facilitate the side to side sweeping motion of blade . Cutting blade may be adjustable by the operator of endoscope based on indications presented by the scalp tissue of the patient and the comfort of the operator. The operator of endoscope may be able to control the amount of tissue penetration achieved by each advancement of the endoscope as well as the motion of the cutting blade in the side to side up and down and forwards backwards directions.

In some embodiments cutting blade may be replaced by a blunt ended blade an electrocautery device a dispenser of pressurized gas or liquid a balloon like expanding device an enzymatic tissue separator a laser or any other device capable of separating the connective tissue along a desired plane.

Referring to similar to many standard endoscopes e.g. a rigid hysteroscope endoscope has three ports. Endoscope may otherwise have a different number of ports. A light port allows light from a fiberoptic light cable to enter endoscope through proximal end of the endoscope. An insufflation port is the entry point for moistened insufflation gas which facilitates enhances and maintains the separation of subcutaneous tissue planes. Both light received through light port and insufflation gas received through insufflation port pass through an outer trocar of endoscope and are emitted in an outer oval at distal end of endoscope . An imaging port allows magnified viewing of tissue in the region of distal end through a lens at the beveled distal end of endoscope . In some embodiments an operator looks directly through imaging port . In other embodiments an electronic camera is coupled between imaging port and a television monitor to facilitate viewing.

Endoscope may optionally include any of the features presented below for example visualization device and extraction modules .

Another example of an endoscope includes a horizontal blade that may run parallel to the surface of the skin at a known distance from a visualization probe such as an ultrasound probe that an operator may manipulate along the overlying skin surface.

Because cutting blade is positioned directly below lens and because of the beveled profile of distal end blade as well as the tissue through which it cuts are easily viewed.

A humidified gas such as carbon dioxide may be used for insufflation. The temperature of the gas falls between 30 33 C. The pressure of the insufflation gas ranges from 10 50 mm Hg and is determined by the scalp laxity in order to enhance the creation and maintenance of a visual cavity established by cutting blade . Together the blade and insufflation pressure establish a visual cavity with a clearance of at least 1.0 mm. Such a clearance allows for the advancement of the 0.4 mm endoscope and outer trocar attached to cutting blade .

In this example a light source emitting light at a specific wavelength may allow further and deeper visualization and subsequent penetration through the scalp sub follicular subcutaneous tissue by endoscope while still retaining or improving the ability to selectively visualize hair follicle structure and essential follicle components required for self renewal e.g. the stem cell containing bulb and bulge . In some embodiments to better view essential FU components required for self renewal in differently pigmented hair follicles that may be otherwise difficult to visualize illumination light from light source is filtered prior to being reflected toward the plane of hair follicles by a diatonic mirror positioned either inside or outside of endoscope . Exemplary fluorochrome filters include but are not limited to FITC excitation wavelength 490 nm emission wavelength 525 nm DAPI excitation 350 nm emission 470 nm or rhodamine excitation 511 nm emission 534 nm . When the illumination light has a range of wavelengths light emitted from the various components of hair follicles is filtered by an appropriate emission filter positioned prior to imaging port .

Referring to once a visual cavity is established by surgical dissection using cutting blade the cavity is maintained by the insertion of a barrier device in order to maintain ample clearance for the entrance and function of the functional portion of endoscope which may carry attached tissue dissection and extraction modules. The barrier device expands along the established subcutaneous plane to enable the operator to define the outer border of the safe donor zone a region of relative donor hair follicle permanence determined pre operatively by the surgeon on the basis of the patient s medical surgical and family history the caliber and density of the patient s hair and other physical characteristics. The safe donor zone often seen in men as a horseshoe rim of permanent hair represents a zone within which FUs will most likely continue to persist and grow throughout a patient s lifetime outside of this zone FUs may not be permanent. The use of barrier device to surround the safe donor zone may ensure transplantation of permanent FU and prevents the inadvertent extraction of hairs outside this zone. Barrier device may be actuatable by an operator to expand or turn in order to create a more voluminous cavity. Barrier device may be for instance a balloon expander or a gripping device applying force external to the skin. In some examples barrier device may be a porous structure positioned beneath or within the skin that allows for various tissues of interest e.g. hair follicles to protrude through the device at desired locations in the porous structure of the device.

Expansion of the barrier device may help to facilitate identification of individual FU within a region of high hair density in the overlying skin as the inter follicular skin surface is increased. Visual cavity may be kept moist throughout the surgical procedure by periodic administration of saline spray at for instance 50 100 mL hour. Humidified insufflation through insufflation port is preferably performed at least about every 5 minutes.

Referring to the barrier device may also be used to expand the surface area of the intact skin above increasing the distance between adjacent hair follicles or in other applications increasing the distance between each relevant tissue region of interest . The spreading of the skin does not injure the hair follicles or the skin but rather temporarily increases the natural spacing between adjacent follicles. This spreading facilitates visualization identification and classification of the hair follicles from beneath the surface of the skin. The barrier device creates and retains an enlarged visual cavity beneath the surface of the skin while it is in place once the device is removed the overlying skin surface area is reduced to its original state.

Referring to once surgical dissection of the visual cavity is completed and a clearance of at least 1.0 mm is maintained to ensure safe passage of surgical instrumentation an extraction device is attached to distal end of endoscope and used to isolate punch and remove intact hair follicles. A track device such as the one illustrated in may also be used to facilitate subsequent hair follicle harvesting by providing a track or guide or scaffold on which a coring or clipping device may ride towards the safe donor zone and the follicular units that have been identified as desirable for transplantation.

In the embodiment depicted in extraction device is a cylindrical punch type component. However in other embodiments the extraction device may be an oval cuboid or hooked device or another device having curved or straight edges and capable of performing the relevant functions. Extraction device which may also be referred to as an extraction module or extraction component may contain two concentric cylindrical components a coring cylinder which may also be referred to as a coring cannula used to pierce the adipose and dermal tissue surrounding the bulb of an intact hair follicle and a clipping cylinder or clipping cannula. The coring cannula may include a beveled edged portion. The clipping cannula may possess a series of inward angled levers as illustrated in that act to cut the final epidermal tissue to which the intact follicle remains tethered in order to isolate the follicle from surrounding tissue. In other embodiments coring cylinder may be blunt edged and may press against the sub follicular subcutaneous tissue from below to stabilize the device so that the coring cylinder can engage the tissue prior to coring. The clipping cylinder may be driven by a lever that can be controlled by the operator via a cable attached to a trigger at the proximal end of the endoscope as seen in . A central axis of the extraction device that extends through the coring and clipping cannulas may be generally oriented at an angle to the longitudinal axis of endoscope in order to facilitate flow through the extraction device along a defined removal pathway.

Although the extraction device described herein is composed of two concentric components in other embodiments extraction device may be a single entity.

An operator of endoscope views a follicle in its entirety through visual lens as seen in from within coring cylinder . The operator is thus constantly aware that all components important for follicular self renewal are included in the dissection process.

As illustrated in extraction device may be connected to a moistened vacuum suction tubing that defines at least a portion of the removal pathway which is in turn connected to a vacuum source . The vacuum source provides suction that flows from above extraction device downward toward vacuum tubing . The vacuum effect is readily activated deactivated and or increased decreased by a switch button voice control or foot pedal attached to vacuum source .

In some examples an extraction device and a cutting blade which may share characteristics with cutting blade may be affixed together onto a single portion of an endoscope. Referring to another example endoscope is illustrated. Surgical instrument includes an extraction device and a cutting blade that are affixed to a distal arm of an instrument that allows for mirrored or synchronized movement of a visualization component and an extraction component. Surgical instrument which may be referred to as a C arm device may be an endoscope and may share some of the characteristics and functionality of the endoscope described above. The C Arm device is described for removal of a target region of tissue which includes a hair follicle. The system may be adapted for body hair removal or removal of hair from a scalp. Surgical instrument includes a C shaped member which may also be referred to as a C arm an extraction module or extraction component and an external reference module which may also be referred to as a visualization module or external guidance module.

The C arm may be rigid or flexible and may include a proximal first arm and a distal second arm that extend from a middle portion which may also be referred to as a bridging component. The bridging component may serve to physically couple the external reference module which may be carried by the first proximal arm and the extraction module which may be carried on the second distal arm . The first and second arms may extend substantially perpendicular to the middle portion or at least generally parallel to each other. The middle portion may be congruent and integral with a proximal handle portion . The middle portion and proximal handle portion may be aligned along an axis . The first arm may include a guide portion and may be coupled to a visualization or external reference device. The second arm may carry a tissue extraction module with a coring cannula and a clipping cylinder similar to extraction device . The second arm may also carry a dissection blade which may be similar to blade which may be used to help create a visualization cavity.

The proximal first arm may be slidably attached to the instrument or may be fixed to the instrument . The proximal first arm may include a flat portion and a curved guide portion . The flat portion may extend between the middle portion and the guide portion . The guide portion may include an elongated slot that carries a portion of a visualization module .

The second distal arm may include a base component and a platform . The platform may also be referred to as a tissue guard or a tissue shielding device.

The platform may include at least one aperture and a first beveled end portion . The base component may have a hollow interior and a second beveled end portion .

The length and shape of the second distal arm may vary. For example the second distal arm may be contoured to match the contour of a portion of a human skull. The second distal arm may have a concave skull facing surface when the instrument is held in a working orientation with regard to the skull. The degree of curvature of the second distal arm may be fixed or the distal arm may be flexible in order to allow the curvature to adjust in response to the curvature of the skull when the instrument is moved along the skull. The second distal arm may otherwise be straight and or rigid.

The extraction module may be removably attached and at least partially contained within the base of the distal second arm of the C arm . At least a portion of the extraction module may be movable relative to the second arm toward the external reference module . The extraction module may include a suction port and a tissue removal implement which may also be referred to as a tissue removal component.

The tissue removal implement which may be referred to as tissue removal component may include a cannulated system similar to extraction device designed to core and clip a target follicular unit from an internal tissue surface. Referring to various examples of a tissue removal tip are illustrated. The tissue removal tip which may also be referred to as a coring device may include an outer shaft which may be referred to as a clipping cannula. The clipping cannula may include one or more clipping elements located at a superficial border of the tissue removal component. The clipping elements may be described as blades although other cutting features such as teeth are contemplated. There may be a plurality of cutting devices such as curved blades teeth or other cutting features that are disposed around the superficial border of the tissue removal component . In the device shown in the tip includes two blades that interact with an internal coring cannula . When the two blades interact with the coring cannula the blades may be urged towards one another similar to the mechanism of a traditional fingernail clipper. Illustrated in alternative examples of the clipping cannula are illustrated. Referring to the tip may alternatively have a single blade that is urged inwards to clip a hair follicle. Alternatively the tip may include a plurality of prongs like those illustrated in . The prongs may be activated to deploy internally into the coring cannula and clip a target tissue from the surrounding tissue for removal.

In use the coring cylinder may be manipulated to engage subcutaneous adipose tissue deep to hair follicle using a combination of 1 operator driven movement upwards controlled at the proximal end of the endoscope and 2 vacuum suction downwards generated from vacuum tubing . The combination of upwards and downwards force may act to create a tight seal between extraction device and peri follicular subcutaneous soft tissue thus stabilizing the tissue with respect to endoscope and ensuring proper isolation and subsequent controlled removal of intact hair follicle . This can be seen best in . The tissue removal component may be actuated to core and clip a desired tissue section through a trigger mechanism that translates the motion of the trigger to a rotational motion of the tissue removal component . For example once a suction seal has been established the operator may press or pull on a trigger to engage a lever or other motion translation system to advance the tissue removal component from a first position to a second position while still attached to the base of coring cylinder thus moving the coring cylinder upwards in a twisting fashion. The coring cylinder may be twisted either clockwise or counterclockwise as it is moved upwards and the direction of rotation may be reversed when the extraction device later pulls downwards.

The instrument may be coupled to a motor unit that is removably connected to the instrument. The motor unit may be snapped or otherwise fitted into a groove that extends along the length of the intermediate portion and the proximal handle .

Manipulation of the coring cannula may be performed through an arrangement of gears that transforms rotation of an output shaft of the motor unit to rotation of the coring cannula as illustrated in . More specifically a pair of 45 degree bevel gears may be used to change the direction of rotation by 90 degrees where the second arm joins the intermediate portion . Motor shaft rotation about axis is transformed into drive shaft rotation about an axis along the second arm . A first one of the bevel gears is secured to the motor output shaft and the second bevel gear is secured to a first end of a drive shaft that extends along the second arm. The opposite end of the drive shaft terminates in a third bevel gear which engages a fourth bevel gear or crown gear . The third and fourth bevel gears interact to change the direction of rotation by another 90 degrees so that the fourth bevel gear rotates about an axis which is perpendicular to both the motor output shaft axis and the drive shaft axis . The fourth bevel gear interacts with a fifth bevel gear to change the direction of rotation by another 90 degrees so that the fifth bevel gear rotates about an axis which is perpendicular to the axis of the fourth bevel gear and lies in the same plane as the motor output shaft axis and the drive shaft axis . The fifth bevel gear is coupled to the coring cannula and thus rotation is transferred through this arrangement of gears from the motor to the coring cannula .

This arrangement makes it possible to vary the angle between the drive shaft axis and the axis of the fifth bevel gear in order to align the extraction module with a preferred orientation of a target tissue such as a hair shaft in a follicle and then rotate the coring cannula during the extraction process. One arrangement to control and manipulate the extraction module makes use of a linkage which allows the fifth bevel gear to pivot about the fourth bevel gear axis. The linkage includes a rocker bar which carries the fifth bevel gear at one end connects to a first bar at the other end and is hinged in the middle to the fourth bevel gear. The first bar extends alongside the drive shaft and hingedly connects within the middle portion to a second bar . The second bar which may be rather short extends generally along the motor output shaft axis to connect to a third bar . The third bar may extend much farther up the handle and may also extend generally along the motor output shaft axis. The second and third bars may also be integrally formed with one another. The third bar may connect to a control button not shown slidably or depressably mounted to an exterior handle housing also not shown .

The rocker bar may be integral with the assembly or may be a subassembly or components in a fixed mutual relationship.

One of skill in the art will recognize that the various bevel gears shafts and bars may be assembled with dowel pins bolts screws nuts and the like. Various bushings and supports may also be included in this apparatus in order to maintain the various components in their desired positions and relative orientations. For example the second bevel gear may be constrained to mesh with the first bevel gear by a bushing or bearing that permits the drive shaft to rotate but holds the second bevel gear in intimate contact with the first bevel gear. Similar arrangements may be employed for the third and fourth bevel gears so that the first through fourth bevel gears are in fixed orientation. The fifth bevel gear which is mounted to the rocker bar is pivotally movable relative to the arrangement of first through fourth bevel gears. The rocker bar however is hinged in its middle to the fourth bevel gear so that the rocker bar rotates about the fourth bevel gear axis. Additional support in the form of fixed sliding or pivoting connections may be provided along the remaining bars of the linkage.

The tissue removal component may also include a detection device or stop mechanism that prevents the coring cylinder from piercing the stratum corneum or from cutting tissue within a predetermined distance from the skin surface e.g. less than 1 mm or about 0.74 mm which is the depth below the surface at which the stem cell containing isthmus begins . The stop mechanism not shown may include a mechanical bumper that prevents the coring device from piercing more than a predetermined distance from the skin surface.

The stop mechanism may further be enabled by an innate feedback mechanism based on a gradient of resistance within the skin. For instance if the coring cylinder is cutting using rotational torque the rotational frequency is lessened as the coring cylinder moves closer to the skin surface because of the increased resistance posed by the increased collagen and fibrin content in the epidermis and the stratum corneum i.e. following the equation V IR . In some cases an operator can detect the desired proximity of the cutting device to the stratum corneum via feedback from the detection device and can stop the cutting based on this feedback. The detection device therefore may act to ensure that no trauma is inflicted to the stratum corneum and to avoid disruption of the structural integrity of the intact hair follicle as it is isolated and removed.

The instrument may also include a mechanism for more accurately aligning a hair follicle with an extraction axis prior to follicular extraction. The instrument may include a dermal shifter not shown that provides a uniform manipulation of the dermal tissue surrounding a hair follicle. The dermal shifter may include a series of small needles at a known distance from a hair follicle of interest beneath the skin surface. A dermal shifter may also be used on an exterior skin surface.

For example the dermal shifter may include four 30 gauge needles arranged in a box like orientation around a target follicle. Once the needles have been placed around the target follicle the needles may be actuated to shift the desired follicle into a more desirable alignment for subsequent extraction. This uniform manipulation may enable the transition of a hair follicle that exists at an acute angle with respect to the skin surface to a more perpendicular angle during extraction. The alignment of the hair follicle in a perpendicular fashion beneath the skin surface may facilitate the subsequent coring and clipping of the follicle from beneath the skin surface without disrupting the integrity of the overlying skin surface.

Once the coring cylinder has been positioned at the desired predetermined depth from the skin surface and has been sufficiently aligned with the hair follicle to be removed the coring cannula with the associated clipping cannula with cutting devices such as multiple inwardly curved blades may be rotationally or vertically manipulated to move towards the center of the coring cylinder in which the hair shaft lies as previously described.

In some embodiments clipping cylinder may be composed of semi flexible metal e.g. nitinol enabling the clipping devices to lie flush along the surface of the coring cylinder when retracted and to resume their inward angled position once the clipping cylinder is advanced beyond the distal tip of the coring cylinder . The downward force from the intact stratum corneum above may also help direct the inward angled levers further inward increasing their ability to clip the remaining epidermal tissue.

The shearing of the superficial layer of epidermis by these cutting devices may reach the hair shaft to separate the follicle from its native tissue. The vacuum force may draw the separated follicle downwards into the moistened tubing and along the removal pathway.

The tissue removal component may also include one or more gripping ledges or keels disposed on the inner surface to facilitate enhanced tissue removal. For example once the upper superficial border of the to be isolated hair follicle has been sufficiently separated by the cutting devices the operator may activate trigger to cause coring cylinder to be pulled downward in a twisting fashion rotating in the opposite direction from its rotation upon upward movement. Microscopic one way gripping ledges akin to hooks protruding from within coring cylinder may grasp the peri follicular tissue and that surrounds hair follicle as coring cylinder is pulled downward rotating in the opposite direction from its rotation upon upward movement. The gripping and tugging motion of the microscopic ledges within the cylinder may be coupled with curved blades that rest atop or superficial to the soon to be isolated hair follicle to provide mechanical pressure to pull the follicle out of its native soft tissue environment.

Although the cutting devices are described above as sharp blades other variations are also possible including a rotational blade or lever a laser an enzymatic solution fluid jet or another type of cutting device appropriate to the surgical situation.

Once follicle separates from its native tissue clipping cylinder may be reset for example by the release of a trigger . In an alternative embodiment an endoscope may include an extraction module in which the coring and clipping components remain stationary or may rotate without vertical motion. In this example endoscope may include a tissue manipulation component not shown that acts to urge the tissue towards and into the cannulated portion of the extraction module. Once the tissue has been urged into contact with the cannulated portion of the extraction module the extraction module may be actuated by a lever trigger or other device to core and clip the tissue.

As seen best in the tissue removal component may extend perpendicular to the base and may be aligned with the aperture of the tissue guard of the distal second arm . Tissue guard may act to effectively shield the environment around the desired tissue of interest from any undesired trauma e.g. mechanical chemical laser induced or electrical trauma . Because the guard may be associated closely along the coring cylinder no tissue is able to fall between the protective device and the coring cylinder. Therefore all tissue not within the coring cylinder i.e. not the tissue of interest or the native environment surrounding the tissue of interest will be protected by the shielding device from any subsequent activity e.g. clipping shearing etc. that takes place within the guard. Once the guard is held in place close to the skin surface and snugly around the coring cylinder the clipping device is engaged within it in order to isolate the tissue of interest. Alternatively the guard may be attached to the distal end of the coring cylinder and remain around the tissue of interest as the coring cylinder is replaced by the clipping cylinder. Alternatively the guard may ride as a cylinder snugly along the coring cylinder and expand into a cone once it reaches the tissue surrounding the tissue of interest not shown . Alternatively the guard may be in the form of a conical or cylindrical cage that is separate from the first arm and surrounds the clipping device to prevent the surrounding tissue from any trauma that could otherwise be caused by movement of the clipping device during tissue extraction. The guard may be formed of metal plastic rubber or any biologically safe material.

In addition to providing a protective barrier around the desired tissue of interest the guard may also assist in the subsequent step of isolating the desired tissue of interest. For instance if the guard and the isolation technique are mechanical the guard may provide guidance for the path and curvature of the isolation device e.g. mechanically reshaping or re aligning a clipping device as it presses against the inner walls of the guard . Alternatively the guard may assist in a laser based extraction of the desired tissue by redirecting the cutting lasers inwards near the surface of the skin based on the inward sloping of the inner walls of the guard.

In general when using the tissue shielding device after the visual cavity is established the tissue coring device identifies and aligns with the tissue of interest and the coring device cores around the intact tissue of interest as described above. The guard is then engaged to isolate the native tissue environment from the tissue of interest. If expandable the guard is deployed to assume its optimal shielding e.g. conical shape. Once the guard is engaged the coring device is withdrawn. The clipping device is engaged within the established barrier of the guard. The clipping device isolates i.e. clips the desired tissue of interest and then is withdrawn. Finally the guard is withdrawn.

In yet another alternative embodiment the endoscope may include multiple tissue extraction modules. Referring to an alternative piloscope may feature multiple tissue extraction devices capable of harvesting separate segments of tissue simultaneously. In one embodiment the multiple tissue extraction devices are connected by a bridging component. In another embodiment a single extraction device has an elongated distal end that encompasses multiple tissue segments to be harvested. As described above the desired tissue may be analyzed with a visualization device that is calibrated to correspond with the position of the extraction device s . The operator of the device selects the individual segments of tissue to extract based on the information provided by the visualization device. Once selected those desired segments of tissue are engaged and extracted by the corresponding tissue extraction devices but not by those devices that were not selected and activated.

In one example ten separate cylindrical punch devices each attached to a singular suction portal through which the extracted tissue travels are connected via a linear rod. The multiple punches within the internal visualization cavity beneath the skin surface can be controlled either mechanically as illustrated in or electronically by the operator of the device from outside of the body. A corresponding visualization device such as an ultrasound may be used externally or within the same plane of tissue to identify which of the ten separate cylindrical punch devices corresponds to an overlying hair follicle. The operator then activates only those punches that are aligned with the desired follicles. Each of those punches can be activated simultaneously to extract the four identified follicles leaving the remaining undesired tissue intact. All four of the follicles are extracted and travel through the same vacuum port to a common storage vial. The multiple extractor device is then moved to a new region of tissue to begin another extraction.

The tissue removal component may also include a saline flush feature in order to facilitate removal of the clipped target tissue away from the extraction site. The saline flush feature not shown may be coupled with the suction portion. A saline solution may be injected near the extraction site prior to a tissue removal procedure to expand the tissue. Saline solution injected at the time of coring and clipping may also help to lubricate the suction tubes in order to more easily slide the clipped target tissue through a removal port after extraction. Saline solution with or without one or more additives may furthermore facilitate healing of the extraction site inhibit infection relieve pain reduce scarring and or relieve swelling. Referring to an isolated follicular unit FU or micro graft including intact hair follicle and any attached peri follicular tissue is illustrated being driven into moistened vacuum tubing by a vacuum force in and an irrigation jet of sterile saline for instance 0.5 mL 1.5 mL of saline ejected from a saline port near distal end of endoscope when activated by trigger .

The saline solution may be injected from a subcutaneous injection port or may otherwise be injected via an external needle near the site of the target tissue extraction.

The suction portion may be designed to remove a target tissue after coring and clipping. The suction portion may encompass at least a portion of the tissue removal component and may be also configured to apply suction to the target region of tissue in order to help stabilize the target tissue and or move the target tissue toward the extraction module before the target tissue is cored and clipped. The suction port may be in fluid communication with a reservoir that receives that target tissue that after extraction and removal by the tissue removal implement.

Referring to a cored micro graft including the isolated intact hair follicle is shown being dragged through moistened suction tubing through an entrance port and towards an isolation container . Multiple isolation containers may be used each accepting a different category of FU e.g. determined based on the number and or caliber of intact hair follicles contained in the FU . In order to separate the FUs into the appropriate isolation containers a sensor positioned along tubing identifies and categorizes each FU based on the number and caliber of intact hair follicles it contains. The hair is comprised of keratinized protein which distinguishes it from surrounding tissue and allows the sensor to identify and quantify the number of hair structures in a given micro graft . Note that in the context of this disclosure an intact hair follicle is defined as a hair follicle that contains sufficient amounts of both stem cell containing regions i.e. the bulb dermal papilla and the bulge region within the isthmus that are required for hair follicle self renewal. The structural connection between the bulb and the bulge within a follicle must be in communication for the follicle to be considered intact. Sensor may operate alone or in combination with hardware and or software algorithms for FU categorization.

Sensor activates a separation device triggering the opening of a gate corresponding to the appropriate isolation container and allowing the FU to reach its appropriate isolation container. The separation device may also include a series of sieves that may separate the incoming follicular units based on size. The separation may be activated by a suction force that is greatest along the path toward the selected isolation container.

Referring to each isolation container may contain a sterile collection pool of preservation solution e.g. normal saline oxygen and ATP enriched solution etc. chilled to a temperature range of 1 10 Centigrade. The collection pool may be similar to the Schuco Suction Canister and the vacuum source used to generate suction pressure may be akin to Schuco Vac. Vacuum source provides the vacuum used to help isolate intact FU as described above. The vacuum pressure ranges from 50 300 mm Hg. A filter positioned between vacuum source and isolation container maintains the sterility of collection pool . A barrier typically about 2 cm in height located near entrance port helps to ensure that grafts drop downwards into collection pool rather than being pulled toward vacuum source .

In the example shown in the external reference module may be removably attached to the first arm of the C shaped member and may include a rod or a transdermal visualization detection device. When the external reference module is connected to the first arm the external reference module may be at least partially contained within the elongated slot on the curved portion .

As illustrated in an example of the external reference module may include a probe with an elongated rod portion and a pointed distal tip . The external reference module may be hollow or may otherwise be solid. The external reference module may be removably attached to the first proximal arm of the C shaped member .

Referring to the external reference module may include at least one pin or other extension that is shaped to be at least partially received within at least one guide slot on the curved guide portion of the first proximal arm . In the example shown in the first proximal arm includes two guide slots shaped to receive two pins of the external reference module . The external reference module may be slidable along a track defined by the guide slots . To facilitate movement of the external reference module along the guide slots the external reference module may be attached to a linkage system that is contained substantially within the body of the C arm . The linkage system may include a plurality of hinges and may also be attached to a portion of the extraction module that is contained within the second distal arm of the C arm . The linkage system with hinges may be rotatable and may be manipulated by an operator to facilitate the movement of the external reference module along a defined pathway as illustrated in . When the external reference module is manipulated by an operator to move within the guide slots a central axis of the external reference module may remain in alignment with a central axis of the extraction module as illustrated in . In some examples the axes may be maintained in a coaxial alignment during manipulation.

The guide slot is one example of a guide feature which may interact with and control the position and orientation of the external reference module . Other types of guide features may include rails beams grooves channels edges holes protrusions recesses and the like.

Alternatively the external reference module may include a transdermal visualization device as illustrated in . The transdermal detection device may provide an assessment of the detailed layout of tissue types beneath the skin surface. In one example the transdermal detection device may be a bright minimal heat emitting external light source such as a halogen bulb with a dichroic reflector that reduces heat in the light beam by nearly 70 by transmitting the infrared radiation or heat backwards . In another example the transdermal detection device may be an ultrasound device. The ultrasound 30 50 MHz frequency may enable detailed visualization of the tissue of interest within approximately 1 7 mm beneath the skin surface. In a probe similar to external reference module is illustrated with an integrated ultrasound device. The probe is illustrated viewing a follicle portion beneath the skin surface. In other examples selective visual enhancement may be achieved using visual isolation techniques that take advantage of the unique biological structure and or properties of hair follicles e.g. absorption or reflection characteristics of light or magnetic properties .

In the example shown in the transdermal visualization device is an ultrasound device which may also be referred to as an ultrasound probe. The ultrasound probe may be removably attached to the proximal first arm as illustrated in . During use the ultrasound device may rest against the skin surface from outside of the body.

If the visualization component of the endoscope lies on the opposite side of the skin surface from the active engagement component i.e. the tissue extraction device the bridging component may use any of various types of connections including for instance a direct transdermal bridge at the site of interest an indirect transdermal bridge crossing the skin surface at an alternate site a magnetic connection a connection utilizing lasers or radioactive or ultraviolet waves a connection formed by chemical or gaseous bonds or a connection established by structural changes to the skin surface initiated from the opposite side of the skin.

The connection stabilizes movements between the visualization device and the tissue extraction device that actively engages the tissue of interest. As many forms of visualization e.g. ultrasound display in two dimensions X and Y axes while neglecting the third axis Z axis or depth of viewing field this connection effectively locks in the tissue of interest by eliminating the possibility that the tissue of interest strays into or out of the Z or depth of view axis.

The ultrasound probe may be manipulated by an operator and may be used to create a visualization field which relays information regarding a target hair follicular unit or other target tissue as well as the surrounding tissue. The information may include the size of the follicle the number of individual follicles within a follicular unit the depth and orientation of the follicle and information regarding the surrounding tissue. Additional information may include the angle of the hair follicle and any curl characteristics of the hairs contained in a follicular unit. Based on the information gathered by the visualization device an operator may then manipulate the extraction module along an interior tissue surface to the site of the target tissue and effectively remove the target tissue.

In one example method of use of instrument an operator may create an incision within the donor area that is shaped to accommodate the insertion of the second distal arm and or middle portion of instrument . The operator may use an additional barrier device to separate the epidermal layer from the subcutaneous tissue and create a visualization cavity such as a balloon device or blunt dissector. Alternatively the beveled edges of the platform and base respectively may facilitate the adequate separation of the epidermal layer from the subcutaneous tissue to insert at least a portion of the second distal arm into the incision such that the extraction module lies beneath dermal tissue and the external reference module lies near an exterior tissue surface. Once the base has been inserted into the incision the instrument may be manipulated by an operator to externally identify and locate a target tissue for removal. The instrument may be rotatable about the axis defined by the middle portion and proximal handle . The operator may rotate or slide the instrument within the incision and may manipulate the external reference module such that the external reference module moves along the scalp surface in order to identify tissue that is desirable for removal from the donor area. The operator may use the external reference module to identify the target tissue and to adequately align the extraction module with the hair follicle.

For example the probe illustrated in may be used by an operator to align the extraction module with a target follicular unit by pointing the tip at the target tissue and optionally aligning the probe shaft with a hair shaft. The visualization module in this example the probe can be any mechanical device used to provide a line of sight and an external reference point. The tip may then be pressed downward to urge the target tissue into contact with the extraction module that lies beneath the tissue. The operator may then actuate the instrument such that the tissue removal implement excises the desired follicular unit from the internal surface of the epidermal layer by coring around the intact follicular unit and clipping the follicle in order to separate it from the overlying skin surface at a predetermined distance from the skin surface often less than 1 mm . Alternatively to excise the follicular unit the tissue removal implement may be pressed upwards against the underside of the skin surface. When the removal implement is pressed upwards it may approach but not pierce the overlying skin tissue.

In another example the external reference module may include the ultrasound device such as the example shown in . The operator may turn on the ultrasound device to develop the visualization field and gather information regarding the target tissue. Example methods for activating an ultrasound unit include pressing a foot pedal that is connected to the ultrasound unit pushing a button within the ultrasound unit or using a connected computer system to active the ultrasound unit. Once the operator has identified and assessed the target tissue area for example a follicular unit for removal the operator may then align the extraction module by engaging a trigger or toggle to appropriately engage the target tissue. In some examples the extraction module may be coupled to the external reference module so that once the operator has positioned the external reference module to identify and assess the target tissue area the extraction module is appropriately positioned to extract the target tissue. The operator may then turn on the motor unit which actuates the rotation of the coring cannula via the geared linkage system described previously. The coring cannula may move to surround and create a core around the target tissue.

Once the target tissue has been identified and the extraction module has been aligned with the target tissue the target tissue may be cored and clipped. The suction port may then facilitate removal of the excised follicular unit by drawing the follicular unit away from the site of excision along a suction pathway that includes tubing within the base and towards a storage vial or reservoir that is outside of the human body. The suction tubing and reservoir may contain a saline flush solution as well as various other preservative or biological solutions for maintaining the viability and stability of the follicular units such that they remain viable for reimplantation at the recipient area.

The collection of isolated micro grafts contained in pool of preserving solution may subsequently be separated further manually based on follicle characteristics such as number of hairs per FU and or caliber of each individual hair. Each FU bundle may be sent to one of the following collection troughs fine single haired FU coarse single haired FU fine two haired FU coarse two haired FU fine three haired FU coarse three haired FU and follicular families FF containing clusters of more than three hairs per FU.

After the desired number of intact FUs have been effectively removed from the patient the barrier device and endoscope may be removed from the visual cavity beneath the patient s scalp. Afterwards the incision into which the endoscope and its attachments were introduced is sutured closed using for example 5 0 nylon sutures in a continuous running suture so as to leave a nearly imperceptible scar in a hidden post auricular zone. The scar may be linear curved lobular zig zag radiate or other shape.

The suction may be applied continually throughout the procedure or may be actuated after the target tissue has been clipped.

In another example of instrument the C arm may accept the external reference module and extraction module interchangeably such that the external reference module is attachable to the distal second arm and the extraction module is attached to the proximal first arm . In another example of instrument the proximal arm and the distal arm may be separate components wherein the distal arm may include a tissue extraction module and may be inserted subdermally while the proximal arm component is used on an exterior surface as a reference guide for the subdermal extraction. Other methods for tissue excision may also be contemplated such as the use of lasers to cut around the target tissue.

Referring to another example of an instrument for tissue removal is illustrated. Instrument may have similar features to instrument . Instrument may include a proximal portion a middle portion which may also be referred to as a bridging component and a working end . The middle portion may be located between the proximal portion and the working end . The proximal portion may be coupled to a motor unit similar or identical to motor unit described previously. The working end may include a first arm and a second arm that is substantially parallel to the first arm . The second arm may also be referred to as a sub dermal arm. The first arm and the second arm may extend from the middle portion .

The first arm may include a rounded shoulder portion that is congruent with the middle portion and an elongated prong that extends from the shoulder portion . The elongated prong may include an aperture or other guide feature for receiving a visualization module such as the ultrasound device as illustrated in . The aperture may be located on a rounded end portion of the prong . When the visualization component is mounted on the rounded end portion the visualization component is moveable within the aperture . As the visualization component is moved within the aperture the angle of a central visualization axis may vary with respect to a longitudinal axis that extends along the second arm . The aperture may control or guide the angle of axis as the visualization component moves. The visualization module may otherwise be an alternative external reference device such as rod described previously. In another example the elongated prong may be attachable to a stereotactic frame or other external reference device.

As illustrated in visualization module may be communicably coupled to an extraction module carried by the second arm through a series of linked bars . The linked bars may be coupled to one another via hinges . The first arm may also include a toggle which may also be a switch button or other control element that is carried within a slot or groove on the shoulder portion . The toggle may include a rocker bar that is connected to the linked bars . The linked bars may be connected to the visualization component and may be carried by a track or channel within the first arm and further within an internal cannula of the second arm to connect to the extraction module .

As the visualization module is manipulated within the aperture the central visualization axis may be aligned with a target hair follicle for removal. As the visualization module is manipulated the movement of the visualization module is translated through the linked bars along the track to rotate the extraction module about an axis of rotation that is perpendicular to the visualization axis . The axis of rotation may extend through a pivot member such as a pin or rod that extends through the base of extraction module . As the extraction module is rotated a central extraction axis remains aligned with the visualization axis . The central extraction axis may be coaxially aligned with the visualization axis .

The middle portion may also include a gripping handle that carries a trigger or other actuation component. As illustrated in the trigger may include a spring component and may be connected to a carriage component within the middle portion . The carriage component may carry a cylindrical housing with internal ball bearing components not shown . The carriage component may be coupled to a drive shaft that extends from motor unit and may act to allow cable component to translate in response to actuation of the trigger while permitting cable component to be rotationally coupled to the motor component .

The cable may be functionally connected to the extraction module that is located in the distal working portion of the second arm . Extraction module may have similar or identical features to extraction module described previously.

Referring to another example of an extraction module is illustrated. Extraction module may include an external coring cannula and an internal clipping device . When the extraction module is operatively assembled the clipping device may be at least partially contained within the coring cannula as illustrated in .

As illustrated in the coring cannula may include a proximal shaft with two grooves or channels that extend along the shaft . The proximal shaft may include a cone shaped tip portion with a circular aperture at the end. The cone shaped tip portion may include two interior beveled surfaces as illustrated in . The coring cannula may intersect a cylindrical base portion at a first surface of the cylindrical base which may also be referred to as a first stop feature.

As seen best in a plurality of clip spring elements may extend from a second surface of cylindrical base . The second surface may be opposite to the first surface . The cylindrical base may also include at least one aperture shaped to engage a portion of the clipping element.

Referring to the internal clipping element is illustrated. Internal clipping element may include at least one prong . When the clipping element is assembled with the coring cannula the prongs may extend through the apertures on the cylindrical base and may be held in the grooves along the shaft . The prongs may include proximal beveled edges and may include a tab feature on an interior facing surface . The prongs may intersect a base portion which may be referred to as a second stop feature. The second stop feature may include a proximal surface and at least one cut out portion .

The coring cannula and clipping element may be located in an external housing element not shown that includes an interior ledge or other engagement feature. As seen best in when the coring cannula and clipping element are operatively engaged the clip springs may be at least partially contained within the cut out portions of the clipping element . The clipping springs may include a first concave portion that holds the clipping element in a first position with regard to the coring cannula . In the first position which may also be referred to as a neutral or non engaged position the base portion of the clipping element does not contact the cylindrical base of the coring cannula.

In operation as an operator activates the extraction module the coring and clipping elements may be advanced forward in the external housing not shown until the first surface of the cylindrical base contacts the ledge which provides resistance to further movement of the assembly within the housing. Further force may then be applied via the trigger or other activation mechanism to overcome the spring bias provided by the clip springs to advance the clipping mechanism into a second position as indicated by motion arrow in . The second position may also be referred to as an engaged position. In the second position the proximal surface of the base portion of the clipping element may contact the second surface .

As the clipping element is advanced within the coring cannula the proximal beveled edges of prongs may engage the complementary internal beveled surfaces of the coring cannula and may be urged towards one another to clip or cut out a piece of target tissue as seen best in .

After a target tissue has been clipped a user may then retract the clipping element within the coring cannula . As the clipping element is pulled back within the coring cannula the tabs may help to urge the prongs away from one another to release the clipped target tissue such that it may be pulled away into a suction port located in the housing not shown and along a removal pathway such as tubing .

In an example of use of instrument a user may create a 1 incision in the scalp of a patient using a dissection module and then insert the second arm into the incision. The dissection module may be blade which may be operatively assembled with instrument or a separate component. Second arm may be flexible such that as the second arm is inserted into an incision the second arm may flex to match the contour of the skull as the second arm is moved towards a target hair follicle. The user may manipulate the visualization component for example ultrasound device by grasping the visualization component and manually rocking the component within the aperture in order to identify and gather information about the target hair follicle for removal for example the angle of the follicle within the dermal and sub dermal layers. Alternatively the user may manipulate the toggle to adjust the visualization component . As the user rocks the ultrasound device within the aperture to align the visualization component along the angle of the target follicle the extraction module is rotated about the pivot member such that the extraction axis remains aligned with the visualization axis . Once the user has identified the target follicle and has aligned the visualization axis to the appropriate angle for follicular extraction the user may actuate the coring and clipping mechanism by applying a force to trigger . The extraction module may advance to the engaged position to core and clip the target follicle. The user may then release the trigger to draw the coring and clipping cannulas from the surrounding tissue back to the first position. As the coring and clipping cannulas are drawn back into the housing they may draw the clipped follicular unit from the surrounding tissue. The housing element may include an extraction port that is in communication with a suction tube which may be similar to tubing that facilitates tissue removal along a tissue removal pathway. As the extraction module returns to the first position the clipped follicular unit may become loose within the extraction module and thus susceptible to being pulled from the extraction module by suction. The clipped follicular unit may be drawn into the extraction port and along the tissue removal pathway.

The tubing may be connected to an external tissue preservation reservoir or isolation container such as isolation container described previously. The tubing may also be in communication with the motor unit to provide suction at the suction port within the extraction module and to pull the removed tissue away from the site of extraction.

Referring to another example of an instrument for hair follicle removal is shown. Instrument may have similar or identical features to instrument . In this example elongated prong does not include a rounded end portion but rather extends entirely parallel to second arm . The visualization component which may also be a rod pin or other external reference device may be mounted on a flat end portion of elongated prong and may be linearly moveable on the end portion within an aperture or other receiving feature. In this example the central visualization axis may be fixed in a perpendicular orientation to the longitudinal axis of second arm . The extraction module may be coupled to the visualization component in a similar manner to instrument .

Alternatively the movement of the visualization component may be uncoupled from or independent of the rotation of the extraction module . The visualization component may be manipulated directly or via a toggle not shown by an operator to identify and gather information about a target follicular unit. After a target follicular unit has been identified a user may then rotate the extraction module about pivot component by actuating trigger which may be connected to a cable rod or shaft not shown . As the trigger is actuated the cable or rod may provide a torque to the extraction module in order to align and activate the extraction module to core and clip the target follicular unit.

The system described herein may be used in any plastic surgery or dermatologic procedure that would otherwise require incision of the skin to reach a tissue of interest beneath the skin such as a cancerous lesion. The system described herein allows an operator to obtain a tissue of interest beneath the skin surface without altering the skin surface that lies immediately above the tissue. The operator can effectively include the complete and intact tissue of interest due to effective visualization and delicate manipulation of the extracting module.

Utilizing the visualization technology provided by for example ultrasonography that enables the operator to simultaneously see both the underlying extraction module and the entire hair follicle that rests within the skin surface the operator is better able manipulate the angle and direction of the device in order to align it properly with the overlying hair follicle that it will engage. Further for hair follicle harvesting for subsequent transplantation the system can described herein can include a larger amount of vital tissue structure around the hair follicle during extraction which will enhance follicle viability and survival. During procedures where permanent hair follicle extraction is desired such as from axillary and pelvic regions the system may allow the removal of all of the hair follicle structure required for self renewal to prevent unwanted hair regrowth.

Other advantages of the system described herein include the reduction or elimination of residual scarring elimination of the need for a patient to shave their head in preparation for the procedure reduction of recovery time and discomfort decrease in the incidence of infection and decreased trauma to the underlying vasculature. Further this procedure is available and appropriate for a larger patient population as patients with same color hair and skin curly hair and those who do not wish to shave their heads are now candidates for hair follicle harvesting.

