---

title: Method and apparatus for providing backend support for device control in risk conditions
abstract: An approach is provided for providing backend support for device control in risk conditions. A device control support platform determines one or more computational chains consisting of one or more computation closures for managing one or more risk conditions associated with at least one device. The device control support platform further causes a projection, a distribution, or a combination thereof of the one or more computational chains, the one or more computation closures, or a combination thereof to one or more other devices. The device control support platform also causes an execution of at least a portion of the one or more computational chains, the one or more computational closures, or a combination thereof to cause an initiation of at least one computational broker at the at least one device for managing the one or more risk condition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09038197&OS=09038197&RS=09038197
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 09038197
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20120213
---
Mobile devices with various methods of connectivity are now for many people becoming the primary gateway to the internet and also a major storage point for personal information. This is in addition to the normal range of personal computers and furthermore sensor devices plus internet based providers. Combining these devices together and lately the applications and the information stored by those applications is a major challenge of interoperability.

The mobile devices usually provide access to a high volume of important information to their users and therefore they can become an inseparable tool for a user such that their unavailability even for a short period of time may lead to significant inconvenience for the users.

However there is always some risk that the mobile devices fall down and get damaged or become partly nonoperational. Additionally there is a possibility of devices being left and forgotten in some place being dropped in hidden corners and similar situations that users want to avoid. For example a mobile device may drop inside a sofa while it is in silent mode. Furthermore devices may be knocked off the table knocked into risky near fall positions or being unnecessarily left in places for too long.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for providing backend support for device control in risk conditions.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining one or more computational chains consisting at least in part of one or more computation closures for managing one or more risk conditions associated with at least one device. The method also comprises causing at least in part a projection a distribution or a combination thereof of the one or more computational chains the one or more computation closures or a combination thereof to one or more other devices. The method further comprises causing at least in part an execution of at least a portion of the one or more computational chains the one or more computational closures or a combination thereof to cause at least in part an initiation of at least one computational broker at the at least one device for managing the one or more risk conditions.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine one or more computational chains consisting at least in part of one or more computation closures for managing one or more risk conditions associated with at least one device. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part a projection a distribution or a combination thereof of the one or more computational chains the one or more computation closures or a combination thereof to one or more other devices. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part an execution of at least a portion of the one or more computational chains the one or more computational closures or a combination thereof to cause at least in part an initiation of at least one computational broker at the at least one device for managing the one or more risk conditions.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine one or more computational chains consisting at least in part of one or more computation closures for managing one or more risk conditions associated with at least one device. The apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part a projection a distribution or a combination thereof of the one or more computational chains the one or more computation closures or a combination thereof to one or more other devices. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part an execution of at least a portion of the one or more computational chains the one or more computational closures or a combination thereof to cause at least in part an initiation of at least one computational broker at the at least one device for managing the one or more risk conditions.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining one or more computational chains consisting at least in part of one or more computation closures for managing one or more risk conditions associated with at least one device. The apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part a projection a distribution or a combination thereof of the one or more computational chains the one or more computation closures or a combination thereof to one or more other devices. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part an execution of at least a portion of the one or more computational chains the one or more computational closures or a combination thereof to cause at least in part an initiation of at least one computational broker at the at least one device for managing the one or more risk conditions.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of originally filed claims and .

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for providing backend support for device control in risk conditions are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term computation closure identifies a particular computation procedure together with relations and communications among various processes including passing arguments sharing process results selecting results provided from computation of alternative inputs flow of data and process results etc. The computation closures e.g. a granular reflective set of instructions data and or related execution context or state provide the capability of slicing of computations for processes and transmitting the computation slices between devices infrastructures and information sources.

As used herein the term cloud refers to an aggregated set of information and computation closures from different sources. This multi sourcing is very flexible since it accounts and relies on the observation that the same piece of information or computation can come from different sources. In one embodiment information and computations within the cloud are represented using Semantic Web standards such as Resource Description Framework RDF RDF Schema RDFS OWL Web Ontology Language FOAF Friend of a Friend ontology rule sets in RuleML Rule Markup Language etc. Furthermore as used herein RDF refers to a family of World Wide Web Consortium W3C specifications originally designed as a metadata data model. It has come to be used as a general method for conceptual description or modeling of information and computations that is implemented in web resources using a variety of syntax formats. Although various embodiments are described with respect to clouds it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other structures and conceptual description methods used to create distributed models of information and computations.

In one embodiment the backend environment may include a cloud environment consisting of information and computation resources each consisting of several distributed devices that communicate information and computation closures e.g. RDF graphs via a shared memory. A device within a cloud environment may store computation closures locally in its own memory space or publish computation closures on a globally accessible environment within the cloud. In the first case the device is responsible for any process needed for combination or extraction of computations while in the second case the processes can be conducted by the globally accessible environment which includes the device. The device can utilize the resources of the architectural infrastructure level for example for controlling other devices without having to access the cloud level. Alternatively a device may have direct computational closure connectors to cloud level where devices are more tightly linked to cloud environment for device controlling purposes.

The basic concept of cloud computing technology provides access to distributed computations for various devices within the scope of the cloud in such a way that the distributed nature of the computations is hidden from users and it appears to a user as if all the computations are performed on the same device. The cloud computing also enables a user to have control over computation distribution by transferring computations between devices that the user has access to. For example a user may want to transfer computations among work devices home devices and portable devices other private and public devices etc. Current technologies enable a user of a mobile device to manipulate contexts such as data and information via the elements of a user interface of their user equipment. However distribution of computations and processes related to or acting on the data and information within the cloud is typically controlled by the system. In other words a cloud in general does not provide a user e.g. an owner of a collection of information distributed over the information space with the ability to control distribution of related computations and processes of for instance applications acting on the information. For example a contact management application that processes contact information distributed within one or more clouds generally executes on a single device e.g. with all processes and computations of the application also executing on the same device to operate on the distributed information. In some cases e.g. when computations are complex the data set is large etc. providing a means to also distribute the related computations in addition to the information is advantageous.

This goal is achieved by introduction of the capability to construct distribute and aggregate computations as well as their related data. More specifically to enable a user of a cloud e.g. a mobile device user an application developer etc. who connects to the cloud via one or more devices to distribute computations among the one or more user devices or other devices with access to the cloud each computation is deconstructed to its basic or primitive processes or computation closures. Once a computation is divided into its primitive computation closures the processes within or represented by each closure may be executed in a distributed fashion and the processing results can be collected and aggregated into the result of the execution of the initial overall computation.

In one embodiment a computational architecture consists of a plurality of architectural levels including a device level and infrastructure level and a cloud computing level. A device from the device level has connectivity to the cloud computing level via one or more infrastructure levels wherein each infrastructure level may consist of layers and components such as backbones routers base stations etc. Typically the computation closures associated with a process related to a device from device level are defined constructed and executed within the cloud computing level which may have various levels of distribution as well. However the components of the infrastructure levels may be equipped with various resources e.g. processing environments storage spaces etc. that can be utilized for the execution of computation closures associated with a process. Since the infrastructure level functions as an interface between the device level and the cloud computing level if the computation closures can be executed in the infrastructure level there will be no need for the computation closures to be migrated transmitted to the cloud computing level that may very well require excessive use of resources. Therefore execution of computation closures associated with a process related to a device at the infrastructure level can provide services to device users in a more efficient manner.

In one embodiment the backend at device level infrastructure level or cloud level provides one or more computation chains that can use triggering notification one or more control mechanisms or other defined mechanisms to integrate the backend into the functional chains for device control e.g. search vibration etc. It is noted that the computational chains may be equipped with protection and restoration schemes during risk conditions.

In one embodiment the vibration function of mobile devices can play an important role in preventing devices to break or become nonoperational upon falling accidentally. In various embodiments if control mechanisms are activated via the backend when a device is intelligently operating with backend support cases such as damages due to falling accidents risk positions that may lead to a fall or other damages etc. can be avoided.

To address the above mentioned problems a system of introduces the capability to provide backend support for device control in risk conditions. In one embodiment computational projection and control support provided from backend from other devices infrastructures or clouds to client side initiates a computational broker on client side e.g. a device vibrator in order to find device identify device prevent damage due to fall change risky position of the device etc.

As shown in the system comprises a set of user equipment UEs having connectivity to a device control support platform via a communication network . By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UEs are any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

In one embodiment the UEs are respectively equipped with one or more user interfaces UI . Each UI may consist of several UI elements not shown at any time depending on the service that is being used. UI elements may be icons representing user contexts such as information e.g. music information contact information video information etc. functions e.g. setup search etc. and or processes e.g. download play edit save etc. . These contexts may require certain sets of media dependent computational closures which may affect the service for example the bit error rate etc. Additionally each UI element may be bound to a context process by granular distribution. In one embodiment granular distribution enables processes to be implicitly or explicitly migrated between devices computation clouds and other infrastructure. Additionally a UE may be a mobile device with embedded Radio Frequency RF tag system of device to device connections such that computational operations and content can be locally transmitted among devices.

In one embodiment computational closure controllable reflection mechanisms are provided for backend integration in initiation of a computational broker on UE for example when searching the mobile device. This means that a user or owner of UE is able to transparently locate and engage the device for example with vibrators with backend support. In this embodiment a distributed computational chain between the client device and backend other devices infrastructures clouds is provided by the device control support platform . Additionally the client device is provided with a corresponding computational broker for triggering notification and defined control mechanisms that integrate the backend to the functional chain of device control e.g. vibration for device search .

In one embodiment while searching for a device UE available vibrators on the UE are utilized together with loss prevention notifications and control mechanisms initiated by the device control support platform for example to notify the user with backend support that the device is in a risk position device is left in a location for a long time device was dropped to a hidden place or various other situations that the user may want to avoid e.g. device dropped inside the layers of a chair in silent mode . Furthermore UEs are sometimes left or knocked into risk positions or positions that may cause the device to fall down to become hidden or to be unnecessarily left in places for long periods of time.

In one embodiment the function of the computational chain flows through the whole system. For example a computational chain for notifying a user of UE and controlling the UE may initiate a vibration component to start operating in find my phone mode. Additionally or alternatively the computational chain may provide alert to the user of one or more target devices UE and recommend that the one or more device locations be changed due to possible risk. The alert to the user may be provided via other UEs associated with the same user that are located in the vicinity of the device at risk such as for example another mobile device a computer a television set etc. The other UEs may not directly belong to the user of the UE at risk but for example belong to a family member a friend via a social network etc. Furthermore the computational chain may vibrate the UEs in specific style or direction to slide each UE into a safer position for example against the edge of a table that the UE is positioned on.

In one embodiment the backend support by the device control support platform may allow the user of UE to login into a service account and instantly view the UE on a map send a message to the UE force the UE to play a sound regardless of silent mode utilize vibration control or a combination thereof. Furthermore other service functions can be enabled in a similar manner.

In one embodiment the device control support platform can enable the user to remotely remove private or sensitive information or erase every data from the UE if necessary. The user may also send a lock pass code to the UE to prevent the UE being access by unauthorized entities until the UE is collected by the user.

In one embodiment the device control support platform enables a UE to activate its camera microphone vibrator or any other computational brokers in order to help the user to locate the UE . The device control support platform may also request a nearest access point with the lost UE within its coverage area to help locating the UE 

In one embodiment the device control support platform enables a UE to engage other UEs which are equipped with computational closures chains framework in order to project at least a part of the functions of the computational brokers to the other UEs for any further actions. For example a UE may notify the user via another UE associated with the same user of its location.

In various embodiments the device control support platform and its components can be located anywhere throughout the network in UEs in network infrastructures within any network component in other server or service provider locations in computation cloud or a combination thereof.

By way of example the UEs and the device control support platform communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment in step of flowchart of the computation determination module determines one or more computational chains consisting at least in part of one or more computation closures for managing one or more risk conditions associated with at least one UE 

In one embodiment the computation chains computation closures or a combination may be predefined for every risk condition and stored in the computation spaces of computation clouds in storage in a local storage within the UE or a combination thereof. Furthermore the computation determination module may be trained based on past risk conditions for example by using machine learning techniques such that the device control support platform can learn from past user actions towards risk condition to predict an upcoming risk and activate certain computation chains in order to prevent an adverse condition. The past actions by the user by the device control support platform or a combination may be retrieved from system logs. Additionally the computation chains computation closures or a combination may be predefined by the manufacturer defined by a user of the UE during device setup or a combination thereof. Furthermore a user of a UE may use the UE to directly enter their desired risk condition setup to the UE may enter settings remotely via other UEs associated with the same user or a combination thereof. For example a user may use one or more other UEs to activate a vibrator on a UE which is lost and has been set to silent mode.

In one embodiment per step of the projection module determines one or more other UEs based at least in part on proximity information resource availability information connectivity information or a combination thereof. Subsequently per step of the projection module causes at least in part a projection a distribution or a combination thereof of the one or more computational chains the one or more computation closures or a combination thereof to the one or more other UEs 

In one embodiment per step of the broker activation module determines at least one computational broker based at least in part on subscription status information associated with the at least one UE . For example the broker activation module may obtain information related to a subscription of a UE to backend support services. The subscription information may be obtained from storage information spaces local storage of UE not shown or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment per step of the broker activation module causes at least in part an execution of at least a portion of the one or more computational chains the one or more computational closures or a combination thereof to cause at least in part an initiation of at least one computational broker at the at least one UE for managing the one or more risk conditions.

The one or more risk conditions may relate at least in part on one or more temporal parameters one or more location parameters one or more positional parameters one or more postural parameters or a combination thereof associated with the at least one UE 

In one embodiment the at least one computational broker may cause at least in part an initiation of one or more actions at the least one UE the one or more other UEs or a combination thereof based at least in part on the one or more risk conditions. For example a computational broker may cause activation of a vibrator an alarm a camera a microphone or a combination associated with the UE with another UE or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the one or more actions include at least in part one or more activations of at least one vibration control mechanism to cause at least in part a change in a location a position a posture or a combination thereof of at the least one UE . For example a vibration control mechanism may vibrate a UE which is positioned near the edge of a table in a direction that can cause the UE to move towards the center of the table and avoid the risk of falling off the table.

In one embodiment per step of the notification module causes at least in part an execution of the one or more computational chains the one or more computation closures or a combination to generate one or more notifications regarding the one or more risk conditions wherein the initiation of the at least one computational broker by the broker activation module can be based at least in part on the one or more notifications.

In one embodiment the one or more notifications may be sent to the user via another UE to the broker activation module to the computational brokers to cause initiation of actions at the UE or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment per step of the sensor information processing module processes and or facilitates a processing of sensor information contextual information or a combination thereof associated with the at least one UE the one or more other UEs or a combination thereof. The sensor information can provide information related to location position environmental risks and hazards for example spilled water close to the UE or a combination thereof associated with the UE 

In various embodiments the computation determination module the projection module the broker activation module the notification module or a combination thereof may use the results from sensor information processing for determination and distribution of the computational chains and closures initiation of the computational brokers providing the notifications or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the one or more other devices may include at least in part one or more server devices not shown one or more devices of infrastructure such as one or more network components one or more other UEs belonging to the same user one or more peer devices for example other UEs belonging to different users who are on the same circle in a social network or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment per step of the computation determination module detects a posture of a UE . The detection may be based on receiving sensor information from the UE monitoring information from another UE not shown or from various other devices in the vicinity of the UE . For example a security camera may detect and report the posture to the device control support platform .

In one embodiment per step of the computation determination module determines other relevant parameters such as for example current location position environmental effects etc. associated with the UE

In one embodiment per step of the computation determination module determines the actions that should be taken with regards to the collected information in steps to . This step is a preparation for step of wherein the computational chains and closures are determined.

In one embodiment per step of the device control support platform performs the process of . In one embodiment upon completion of the device control process per step the computation determination module continues collecting information about current location position environmental effects etc. associated with the UE

In one embodiment per step of if the computation determination module determines based at least in part on the detected information that the UE is in risk condition and further actions for controlling of the UE is necessary the process will continue from step . Otherwise if no risk is detected the repetition of steps and ensures the detection of risky conditions upon occurrence.

In one embodiment the UEs and are equipped with vibration devices and respectively. There may be device level level as well as backend level infrastructure and cloud notification support that may affect vibration controls 

In one embodiment device level support for UE may include using computation closures framework at the UEs or using computational brokers of neighboring UEs and while backend level support may include controlling vibration device may include using backend computational closures framework using specific computational brokers for users with support service subscription etc.

In one embodiment device control support may be proactive for example to avoid falling in risky environments to notify the risk of losing the device etc. or reactive for example to notify users other devices or via other devices after certain decision criteria parameters such as time location energy levels battery life etc. is met.

In one embodiment notification to a UE from backend or or from other devices or to initiate a broker e.g. vibration on the UE strengthens the mechanical and control framework definitions of vibration control.

In one embodiment a threshold may be defined for the notification and how it may affect the UE or other UEs and

In one embodiment if a missing UE is visible to the infrastructure it may be easiest to use the infrastructure for signaling to the UE or to other devices. Alternatively information related to cognitive connectivity white spaces databases the last registered location of the UE in the infrastructure may be used for locating a lost UE . The device control support platform may contact other devices known to be in the area close to the UE based on this information similar database information or for example based on previously collected information on Wireless LAN access points.

In one embodiment the UEs and connected to the device control support platform and located in the neighborhood of UE can search for the lost UE based on the radios that they have available. After finding the missing UE this information can be sent to the device control support platform for further processing.

In one embodiment if there is information on the location of the person trying to find the missing UE other UEs and nearby may directly send alerts to another UE not shown that is in possession of the same person.

In one embodiment the device control by the device control support platform may include forcing the missing device via other devices infrastructure components cloud components or a combination thereof to play a particular tone or message for example Find me and report to this number xxx yyy zzz and claim your reward for fining me .

In one embodiment the control may include forcing the UE to communicate to its neighboring devices that it has been left unused for too long time or when sensing any users or a particular user communicate that it cannot find its user owner.

It is noted that if a UE drops from a height of one meter with initially zero velocity it will take 0.45 seconds for it to hit the ground. In one embodiment by concentrating the weight of the UE near the edge that can tolerate more pressure e.g. a shock resistance edge damage to more vulnerable parts of the UE such as the display can be prevented.

In one embodiment if the drop is from a high elevation that may threat the device safety there may be enough time to switch off the UE in order to prevent further damage. For example the average switch to service interrupt routine when it is called due to a free fall sensor signal is 2 to 5 microseconds. Additionally other times can be used for preventive actions.

In one embodiment due to lack of time after detecting a fall there may not be enough time to establish a new connection to a cellular base station or a Wireless LAN access point. In this embodiment the UE can be controlled via the connections established at the moment of falling for transmitting backup data. With cellular connectivity it would take some time to have a slot in the uplink depending on the congestion. In Wireless LAN reserving a slot may not be necessary however if the channels are reserved backup transmission cannot be performed. In this embodiment when a channel is silent the Wireless LAN can immediately transmit the data.

In one embodiment backup data transmission can be in the form of a data package to a secure server connected to the UE via the communication network . The data to be transmitted can be selected beforehand based on a default setup or by the user to contain for example the most recent changes after latest backup any critical information selected beforehand current calendar inputs etc.

In one embodiment the device control support platform determines sets and of closures for controlling UEs and respectively. The device control support platform uses the information provided by its components or from other levels infrastructures and clouds of the architecture as described with respect to the flowchart of in order to select a component of the infrastructure levels or for the distribution of computation closures and . In the example of the closures of set are distributed to components and of the infrastructure as shown by arrow and the closures of set are distributed to components and of the infrastructure shown by arrow . Similarly the infrastructure may distribute the closures further to one or more cloud shown by arrow . The path starting from set in UE continuing through components and of the infrastructure and leading to one or more cloud represents a functional flow for the associated closures. Once the execution is completed the results of execution of the distributed closures can be aggregated and returned to UEs and

It is noted that arrows and show the paths for transfer of computational chains and computation closures determined by the device control support platform for controlling UEs and in risk conditions.

In one embodiment the computation determination module determines the actions that should be taken with regards to the collected information. For example the action may be a displaying of an alert message via the other UEs and . As seen in alerts or both may be displayed on UEs and respectively in order to notify the user of the current location of UE

In one embodiment the action to be taken may be predefined by the user of UE . The user may have setup the UEs and as a group so that alerts regarding each of the UEs can be displayed via the other UEs in the group. In other embodiment the projection module of the device control support platform may have the authority given by the user to select alerting device or and transfer computational chains closures or a combination for alerting action based for example on account information associating devices or to the same user.

In one embodiment the notification module causes an execution of the computational chains and closures for alerting action which may lead to displaying of the alerts and on UEs and respectively.

In one embodiment connectors may contain information about parameters such as security requirement and or capabilities functional flows distribution maps links between closures and architectural levels etc. Arrows connecting closures to connectors and connectors to next closures show the functional flow adopted based on the parameters. As seen in the closures have been distributed from component to component via communication between connector and connector . The computation branch of component includes closures communicating via connectors and while branches and communicate via connectors and . Similarly a third branch has been formed of closures being executed at component and connected by connectors and while the branch communicates with other branches via connector

In one embodiment the initial branch may be in a UE the second branch in a component of the infrastructure and the third branch in another component of the same infrastructure a different infrastructure in a cloud or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the backend device may be equipped with a closure recycling and marshaling component that monitors and manages any access to the computation closures store . In other embodiments the closure recycling and marshaling i.e. standardization for uniform use may be a function of the device control support platform .

In one embodiment the computation closures within environments and the computation closures store may be composed based on anonymous function objects and automatically created by a compiling system using methods for generating anonymous function objects such as lambda expressions.

In another embodiment the computation closure environment has a developer experience module that provides various tools for a developer for manipulating services offered by the UE . The tools may include standardized and or abstract data types and services allowing the developers to chain processes together across development platforms. In one embodiment the developer experience module provides cross platform support for abstract data types and services under the supervision of a device control support platform as discussed in . The agent Agent retrieves the computation closures required by the developer experience module from the computation closures store and stores the newly generated computation closures by the developer experience module into the computation closures store for distribution purposes per arrow .

In yet another embodiment the computation closure environment has a scalable computing module that provides an abstract wrapper i.e. monadic wrapper for the transmitting closures . This abstraction provides computation compatibility between the closures and the UE . The abstract wrapper may provide scheduling memory management system calls and other services for various processes associated with the closures . These services are provided under the supervision of the device control support platform as discussed in . The agent Agent retrieves the computation closures required by the scalable computing module from the computation closures store and stores the newly generated computation closures by the scalable computing module into the computation closures store for distribution purposes per arrow . In one embodiment the backend environment

In one embodiment distribution of process includes distribution of closures combinators and the process states as independent elements into for instance an infrastructure environment . The independent closures from infrastructure environment may be distributed into different components where they may be executed.

It is assumed in this example that component of an infrastructure level not shown is selected by the device control support platform as a destination for closure distribution from UE based on the availability proximity battery life computation cost performance security level etc. The extracted computation closure closure  is transmitted to component following the assignment of a distribution path similar to path in and is executed on component

In one embodiment the component receives the computation closure closure  and extracts it from the computation closure store using the Get command . The extracted closure  is projected into a closure with the user device context and the object is produced. The block represents the reconstruction of the closure into the initial context by a component in charge of the execution. The aggregated context may then be executed in the run time environment of component by Agent.

In another embodiment the UE and component may exchange places and the distribution is performed from the component to UE or both devices may be UEs. In this embodiment the decomposition and aggregation processes are similar to the above example.

In one embodiment the UE may include RDF store which holds computation closures for processes associated with the UE . Similarly the backend device may include a RDF store which holds computation closures associated with processes related to device UEs or any other devices having connectivity to device or cloud .

In other embodiments the Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs in UE and in backend device may be used to identify names or resources accessible to their respective devices via the communication network . Additionally UE and backend device may have rule sets and that include security rules imposed on device similar to rules of . It is noted that the rule base of UE may be a subset of the rule base of the backend device wherein the rules is a subset of a superset of rules managed by a cloud . Furthermore the legacy codes associated with each device may be stored in legacy code memory areas and on UE and and on backend device

In one embodiment UE may be provided with a non volatile memory space as a closure store. The closure store may include a set of closure primitives shown as geometric objects similar to primitives of sets or of . Similarly the backend device may be provided with a non volatile memory space as a closure store. The closure store may also include a set of closure primitives shown as geometric objects. In one embodiment the closure store is a subset of closure store determined at least in part based on one or more criteria such as time of access frequency of access a priority classification security settings etc. The geometric shapes of closure stores and have been each divided into two groups of solidly filled geometric shapes representing signed closures and unfilled geometric shapes representing unsigned closures . Since non volatile memories are costly and require extensive resources e.g. power consumption compared with volatile memories such as and the capacity of non volatile memory on a UE is limited. However a backend device serving high numbers of users may be equipped with larger volumes of non volatile memory spaces. Because of the limited capacity of non volatile memory spaces on UEs and also because differing levels of security setup on various devices only a subset of the closure store is stored locally at the closure store for local use by the UE . In order to minimize the number of times a UE needs to retrieve one or more primitives from closure store of device the subset is determined based on one or more criteria. In one embodiment the closure store may be determined as a set of the most frequently accessed closure primitives of closure store by UE . In another embodiment the closure store may be determined as a set of the most recently accessed closure primitives of closure store by UE . In other embodiments various combined conditions and criteria may be used for determining subset from set as the content of closure store for UE . Furthermore the closure stores and may be periodically synchronized. The synchronization of closure stores ensures that any changes addition deletion modification etc. in closure primitives and in root elements of the signature lattice of closure store are reflected in the closure store .

In one embodiment for execution of a closure set a subset of closure store associated with a process on UE the set can be transmitted under the supervision of the device control support platform and after verification of the security of closures and capabilities of the destination component to the backend device which is a component of the infrastructure the distribution path shown as arrow . The device control support platform may then inform the processing components of the UE the backend device or a combination thereof the processing components are not shown that the security of closure primitives has been approved and the closures are ready for execution. Alternatively the device control support platform may determine that the closures are not approved and terminate their distribution and execution.

In one embodiment any changes on the closure store of the backend device e.g. addition deletion modification etc. may first enter the URIs via the communication network . The changes may then be applied from URIs on closure store shown by arrows . Similarly the closure store is updated based on the content of the closure store and the updates are shared with other authorized components within UE e.g. with URIs as shown by arrows .

In one embodiment the commonly accessible memory address space is formed from the RDF stores and and the closure stores and . The commonly accessible memory address space can be accessed as a continuous memory space by each of the devices and

The processes described herein for providing end to end security in multi level distributed computations may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The processes described herein for providing secure signing and utilization of distributed computations may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The processes described herein for providing backend support for device control in risk conditions may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to providing backend support for device control in risk conditions. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for providing backend support for device control in risk conditions. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for providing backend support for device control in risk conditions is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for providing backend support for device control in risk conditions to the UEs 

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to provide backend support for device control in risk conditions. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of providing backend support for device control in risk conditions. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to provide backend support for device control in risk conditions. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

