---

title: Event data monitoring systems and methods
abstract: A personal monitoring system of the present disclosure has a network and a sensing device. The sensing device has a network interface for coupling the sensing device to the network and is coupled to a user for sensing raw data at a discrete time related to the user. Additionally, the system has logic that associates a timestamp with the raw data at the discrete time and stores the raw data as raw history data indicative of a plurality of raw data from discrete times. Further, the logic determines, based upon the raw history data, whether an event has occurred.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08868616&OS=08868616&RS=08868616
owner: Integrity Tracking, LLC
number: 08868616
owner_city: Boca Raton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120709
---
This application claims priority to Provisional Patent Application U.S. Ser. No. 61 505 387 entitled Field Instrumentation Methods for Human Fall Detection System and filed on Jul. 7 2011 which is fully incorporated herein by reference.

Oftentimes elderly individuals who are at risk of falling or have medical conditions needing fast emergency response use personal emergency response systems to request assistance. Traditionally these systems are manually activated using a button sometimes referred to as a panic button or more recently incorporating automatic fall detection capability as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 192 855 entitled which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Typically emergency response devices consist of a wearable pendant with a button that a user can actuate in order to signal to a responder that he she is in need of help. Such systems are typically characterized by a gateway computing device that resides in the home. The gateway computing device provides connectivity to a service provider i.e. a responder via a hard wired phone line connection via a public switched telephone network PSTN .

Some emergency response devices may include an automatic fall detection capability. Typically such capability detects falls without a user pressing the button. Additionally some emergency response devices monitor physiological characteristics. Further some are mobile systems that are unconstrained by the user s proximity to his her residence or the device s access to a phone line.

Typically such devices rely on complex central monitoring units that use complex signal processing in order to effectively manage data generated by the devices. In these types of devices the device performs event detection and feature extraction and typically do not have the capacity to communicate such relevant information for example for post mortem analysis of reported issues and ongoing improvements of the device.

The present disclosure relates to an event monitoring system that enables a user employing the system to obtain help during an emergency. The personal emergency response system comprises a monitor that is worn and or in close proximity to the user during times when the user is at risk for needing assistance if an emergency event occurs e.g. when the user is alone at his her residence.

During use the monitor senses and records user characteristic data indicative of physiological motion and location characteristics related to the user. The monitor transmits the user characteristic data to a computing device over a network e.g. a cellular network to a computing device.

The data received by the computing device is stored and is available for real time or subsequent access. The computing device may notify a caregiver of the received characteristic data or notify the caregiver of events that occur as evidenced by the characteristic data received. Based upon the information received by the caregiver the caregiver may contact the user. In one embodiment the caregiver may contact via a network the monitoring device via a number specifically assigned to the monitoring device similar to a mobile phone number. In one embodiment in response to a call the monitor automatically creates a network connection with the caregiver and activates a speakerphone through which the caregiver can speak with the user. In addition the caregiver can contact additional individuals designated as emergency contacts and or request an emergency response team to the user. In one embodiment the monitor records data of the user s location e.g. global positioning system data which the computing device stores and which can be used to locate the user if the user s whereabouts are unknown.

Additionally the monitor is equipped to detect if the user falls. In this regard the monitor analog signals and such signals are manipulated by a computing device on the edge of a network. Further the present disclosure describes a system that enables algorithms employed to manipulate such signals to improve over time without capturing the entirety of sampled data.

The personal monitoring system described further with reference to automatically monitors the user. In this regard the personal monitoring system collects the characteristic data related to the user which may include but is not limited to physiological motion and location data hereinafter collectively referred to as user data. 

The personal monitoring system transmits collected user data to a radio service computing device via a wireless network . The radio service computing device transmits the user data to the central computing device via the network .

The central computing device stores the user data received via the network . In addition to storing the user data the central computing device analyzes the user data received and determines if an event has occurred e.g. the user has fallen and sends a notification to the call center system via the network . If such a notification is made the call center system may automatically create a connection e.g. a voice connection to the personal monitoring system via the telephone network or a caregiver may be monitoring the call center system and manually place a phone call to the personal monitoring system via the telephone network . In addition the central computing device may connect to the personal monitoring system through the remote access server via the telephone network .

In one embodiment the wireless network is a mobile device network. The mobile device network may be for example a cellular network that communicates via radio waves. In one embodiment the user device may communicate over a public switched telephone network PSTN . In such a configuration a user of a mobile device not shown may connect to any other phone mobile or land line in the world. Other configurations may be employed in other embodiments. For example the personal monitoring system may communicate with the central computing device via satellite technology.

In one embodiment the network is the Internet. However other types of networks may be used in other embodiments to implement the system . In this regard any type of packet switched networks may be used that connect the radio service computing device to the central computing device .

In one embodiment the telephone network is a public switched telephone network PSTN . The PSTN is a collection of circuit switched telephone networks that may employ various technologies for communicating e.g. telephone lines fiber optic lines microwave cellular towers and or satellites. Note that in one embodiment the wireless network may be a part of the telephone network . However for illustration of the system of the present disclosure no such linkage or inclusion is shown in . Note that the system enables bidirectional data traffic i.e. from the personal monitoring system to the central computing device . A system for monitoring health data is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 686 342 entitled the 342 application which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The user device may be any type of device that is worn by the user . The user device may be any type of device that senses stores and transmits user data and enables the user to be contacted or to contact a caregiver for assistance. An exemplary user device may include but is not limited to a mobile phone including a smart phone belt clip chest strap pendant watch and or arm band for example.

In one embodiment the user device comprises a mechanism not shown that enables the user to quickly and easily request help. Such a mechanism may include but is not limited to a manual push button that when selected automatically dials a caregiver or someone who can contact the caregiver for the user .

In one embodiment the user device comprises a battery to provide power for the device. In one embodiment the user device comprises a global positioning system GPS for obtaining location data not shown describing the precise location of the user . In one embodiment the user device comprises mobile network interface equipment such as a global system for mobile communication GSM or code division multiple access CDMA radio that enables the user device to transmit user data including location information such as latitude and longitude data via the wireless network and provide 2 way communication between the user and the call center system via the network . In one embodiment the device further comprises a sensor e.g. an accelerometer or barometric pressure sensor that performs motion analysis and fall detection so that the user data may contain data indicative of motion data related to the user. Such a device system is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 192 855 entitled Wearable Health Monitoring Device and Methods for Fall Detection U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 192 830 entitled Wearable Health Monitoring Device and Methods for Step Detection the 830 application and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 192 855 entitled Wearable Health Monitoring Device and Methods for Fall Detection the 855 application which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Additionally the user device may be configured to detect whether the user has fallen. If a fall occurs the user device may establish a telephone connection via the network with the call center computing device . The device may also utilize an accelerometer to provide activity measurement and steps as described in the 830 application an ECG circuit to monitor heart rate a thermometer to read temperature and a barometric pressure sensor for measuring elevation. Such a user device is described in the 830 application the 855 application and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 972 039 entitled Wireless Sensor Network System and Method the 039 application which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

In one embodiment the network is a wireless local area network WLAN . In such an embodiment the network links the user device with the networking device via a wireless communication method such as for example Bluetooth or Zigbee .

With reference to in one embodiment the networking device comprises a wireless gateway device and a modem . The wireless gateway device is a computing device that routes packets from the network to the network e.g. the Internet . The wireless gateway device may serve as a wireless access point to the network a router and or a firewall. The modem may be any type of digital subscriber line DSL modem or cable modem that connects the WLAN 201 to the network .

Thus with reference to the user device may connect to and communicate with the central computing device through the wireless network and the network using radio communication methods and the radio service computing device . In addition the user device may communicate with the central computing device through the network and the network using radio communication methods and the network device . Furthermore the user device may contact or be contacted by the call center computing device . Such contact may be established for example when the call center computing device establishes a connection with a telephone number assigned to the user device e.g. a cell phone or mobile number .

During operation the SGSN computing device receives data user data e.g. in the form of packets from the user device via the network translates the user data received and performs authentication of the user . The GGSN computing device converts the user data into the appropriate packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or X.25 and sends them out on the corresponding network . Further data may be sent to the user device via the network . In this regard data packets not shown received from the network addressed to the user device are translated to GSM standard data packets.

Note that the radio service computing device is depicted and described as an exemplary embodiment. Other technologies protocols and or types of systems may be used to connect the user device employing mobile communication methods to the network e.g. the Internet.

The other motion sensors may include additional accelerometers or inertia sensors for example. Any type of motion sensor known in the art or future developed may be used to detect motion of the user .

User device further comprises raw history data personal control logic user data and control data . The user data may include physiological data motion data times tamped data and location data . Personal control logic can be software hardware or a combination thereof. In the exemplary user device shown in personal control logic is shown as software stored in memory . Memory may be of any type of memory known in the art including but not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory and the like. Note that a portion of memory is shown as being random access memory for storing collected data for subsequent use for a limited period of time.

As noted hereinabove personal control logic user data control data and raw history data are shown in as software stored in memory . When stored in memory personal control logic user data control data and raw history data can be stored and transported on any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions.

In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium

Processor may be a digital signal processor DSP or other type of circuitry configured to run the personal control logic by processing and executing the instructions of the personal control logic . By way of example the processor may be an Advanced Reduced Instruction Set Computer RISC Machine ARM 7 ARM 9 Intel PXA901 Intel 80386 Freescale HCx08 Freescale HCx11 Texas Instruments MSP430 or a digital signal processor DSP architecture. The processor communicates to and drives the other elements within the device via the local interface .

The communication device may be for example a low powered radio device e.g. a radio semiconductor radio frequency antenna antenna a wired communication device such a RS232 USB or Ethernet or other wireless communication device such as a magnetic communications scheme or infrared scheme or any type of communication device which communicatively couples the user device central computing device . In this regard the communication device communicatively couples the device with another network or device for example a network controller access gateway or directly to a cellular network.

The sensor logic communicates bi directionally through the communications network device with an intermediary gateway or directly to the central computing device via the network .

In an embodiment having a data receiving unit physiological data and motion data can be relayed in a real time manner a periodic manner an as they occur fashion or some combination of the three. For example a serious condition such as an individual falling could be relayed to the central monitoring device .

In one embodiment the bioamplifier is a device that interfaces with the electrodes . Thus the bioamplifier gathers amplifies filters and conditions the signal integrity of human physiological activity for use by the personal control logic . The signals not shown collected by the bioamplifier from the electrodes relate to the nervous system of the user . In one embodiment the signals collected are stored as the physiological data and are used by the personal control logic .

The output device is a device for communicating information to the user . The output device may be for example an LED that indicates that power is on. In addition the output device may be a speaker that emits a sound upon the occurrence of a particular event e.g. when the battery needs to be charged or upon activation.

Physiological data includes data obtained from the one or more sensors e.g. the thermistor or the bioamplifier . Hence the physiological data comprises data indicative of physiological aspects of the user . Examples of physiological data include data indicative of ECG readings heartbeat readings temperature readings or the like.

Motion data includes data obtained from the accelerometer . Hence the motion data comprises data indicative of movement of the user. In the 3 axis accelerometer embodiment the motion data includes data indicative of the user in an X direction Y direction and the Z direction.

Location data is any data that describes the location of the user that is wearing the user device . In this regard the location data may be any data indicative of reading obtained from the GPS .

The time stamped data which is described further herein comprises data indicative of raw data captured from one or more sensing devices e.g. motion sensors accelerometer thermister bioamplifier or barometer for example collectively the sensors . In addition to the captured raw data the time stamped data stores data for each raw data entry indicative of the time that the raw data was captured from the sensors.

The raw history data comprises a plurality of sets of raw data captured from the sensors. In one embodiment each set of raw data captures comprises data indicative of one or more readings taken from one or more of the sensors at a discrete time i.e. a discrete point in time.

The control data is data indicative of various settings and or parameters that may be used by the personal control logic to operate the user device . The control data comprises event parameter data . The event parameter data comprises data indicative of thresholds that may be indicated for which the personal control logic compares data obtained from the sensors to determine if an event has occurred.

The input device enables the user to enter data into the user device . In the exemplary user device the input device may be a push button. When the push button is selected the user device generates a message which is sent over the networks and to the central computing device as an emergency event. Other input devices may be used in other embodiments. For example the input device may be a keyboard or a touch screen for performing particular operations on the user device .

In one embodiment the input device is a microphone not shown and an exemplary output device is a speaker not shown as described hereinabove. In such an embodiment the speaker and the microphone enable the user to be in communication with the call center system or the caregiver not shown . In such an example the user device detects an event such as for example a fall or a negative change in the user s physiological condition based upon physiological data . The central computing device receives user data that includes the physiological data and transmits an alert to the call center system or the caregiver. The call center system or caregiver may then contact the user over the network via the microphone speaker input output arrangement.

The thermistor is conductively coupled to a metal contact not shown . The thermistor is a device that measures a skin temperature of the user where the thermistor is in contact with the metal contact which is in contact with the skin of the user . In one embodiment the thermistor is a thermocouple not shown .

In one embodiment the accelerometer is a 3 axis accelerometer for monitoring motion. The accelerometer may be a direct current DC response or a non DC response accelerometer. In one embodiment the accelerometer is a microelectromechanical MEMS piezoresistive technology sensor not shown however other types of accelerometers known in the art or future developed may be used in other embodiments of the user device .

In one embodiment the accelerometer measures acceleration due to gravity and physical movement and transmits the raw analog signals to the ADC . The ADC translates the received analog into digital data indicative of the received analog signals not shown . The ADC provides the digital data indicative of the analog signals to the personal control logic which can store the digital data as motion data . The personal control logic then calculates and stores additional motion data including activity induced energy expenditure AEE and or orientation based upon the motion data . In addition the personal control logic can use the motion data to detect a fall detect steps made by the user and categorize activity performed by the user . The accelerometer may be a single or dual axis accelerometer arranged to create a three axis orthogonal coordinate system as depicted in as X Y and Z axes.

During extraction of the physiological data and motion data the personal control logic reacts quickly to changes in real time and also reduces the data stream thereby maximizing the storage capabilities of memory . Reducing the data stream may refer to techniques for averaging the data or inspecting the real time stream for certain feature extraction. One such technique is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 972 335 entitled Wireless Sensor Network Context Data Delivery System and Method.

The barometer is any device that is capable of determining barometric pressure. Thus the barometer obtains a barometric pressure measurement e.g. air pressure measurement and the personal control logic can calculate the user s location in reference to the user s height above sea level. Such calculated height may be stored in the user data

The GPS is any system that communicates with a satellite not shown for example to obtain location data related to where the user is located. In this regard the GPS may obtain longitude and latitude data that identifies the user s location.

In one embodiment of the system the user device may tend to use a considerable amount of power from the power supply e.g. a battery. One method of efficiently utilizing power resources is described in the 335 application.

In one embodiment of the system the personal control logic throttles GPS location queries performed by the GPS . In this regard the personal control logic obtains past motion data obtained from a particular sensor e.g. the accelerometer and performs a first order approximation on the motion data to determine if there is an indicated change in the user s location. In this regard the personal control logic calculates an estimated measure of the user s estimated positional change. Further the system personal control logic stores data indicative of the last known location obtained from GPS as location data and samples another motion based sensor e.g. a lower power consuming sensor to estimate detected steps or expended energy. The personal control logic then calculates an estimate of the user s activity in a given time frame. For example a threshold may be determined such as if the user has taken less than 100 steps in the previous hour then send the last known location. Obtaining the last known location avoids using a power intensive resource such as the GPS receiver to obtain a precise location when it is estimated that the user s location has not changed appreciably. If the user has not expended enough motion or steps to change their location appreciably then checking the GPS or other location based sensor would expend unnecessary battery power. Instead the GPS remains inactive or idle. The 830 application described a method for determining the number of steps a user has taken during a given period of time.

In another embodiment the user device may not send location data to the central computing device until the user device personal control logic determines that the user s location has changed appreciably e.g. a threshold of steps have been taken that indicates that location data needs to be updated on the central computing device . In such an embodiment the personal control logic may continue to transmit other user data to the central computing device in a periodic fashion so that the central computing device may discern the scenario when the user has not changed location and the scenario when the device is not operational or out of range from a communication infrastructure.

In one embodiment the user device detects whether the user has fallen or taken steps as described in the 855 application or taken steps. In such an embodiment the personal control logic may control periodic measurements taken from the accelerometer. In this regard the personal control logic may not take measurements from the accelerometer until a threshold of change is determined and the acceleration ceases after a period of time.

In another embodiment the user device may extend the battery life by utilizing piezoelectric MEMS devices not shown that harvest kinetic energy. Such devices typically take advantage of Faraday s Law and rely on natural vibrations to move a tiny electromagnetic generator not shown . Modern piezoelectric kinetic scavenging MEMS devices can generate several hundred microwatts of power. While perhaps not sufficient to power the user device completely the power generated may be used to augment the power subsystem and be channeled to storage in the power supply e.g. the battery. Or similarly the power generated may be used to supplement power so as to minimize draw on the power supply . This method would depend on the relative activity level of the user but could be used to delay charging or extend the usable life of the device between charges.

In one embodiment the user device personal control logic determines whether the user device is being worn by the user to ensure efficacy of user data transmitted. In this regard data indicating whether the user device is being worn when the user data is obtained may be used to aid the caregivers in helping the user and provide statistics regarding problems leading to the user not wearing the user device .

In one embodiment the user device may comprise a mechanical trigger not shown e.g. an actuator or switch. The mechanical trigger may be toggled when the user attaches or removes the user device . Data indicative of such attachment and or removal may be transmitted with the user data .

In another embodiment the user device may comprise a touch less proximity sensor that reacts to changes in magnetic or RF field examples are Hall Effect sensors or an RF capacitive human body proximity sensor which may detect a change in capacitance as a result of near proximity to a human body . In another embodiment the user device may comprise a thermal measurement instrument e.g. thermistor . Since bodies naturally emit heat detection of that heat using a thermistor infrared receiver or other temperature reading device can indicate that the user device is being worn.

In another embodiment the personal control logic may record stationary movement e.g. breathing heart beating scratching muscle movement and spasms etc. The personal control logic may determine if the user device is being worn based on such user data indicative of the stationary movements

In one embodiment the control logic may roam a geographical area in which the user is present to obtain data relating to available networks. In such an embodiment the control logic may select another network for use in delivering data to the central computing device . When the user device is not transmitting across the network the user device may use other networks and transmission methods to deliver user data and ensure security such as a REST POST interface as seen in the 335 application.

For example the user device may be in close proximity to a wireless network such as an 802.11g network. The user device detects the wireless network connects to the located network automatically and transmits data through the wireless network instead of through the network . Additionally at a home or facility where there is a wireless personal area network WPAN such as ZigBee or 6LoPAN the user device may transmit measurements to these WPANs and communicate with an existing emergency response system in place at other locations.

In one embodiment the WPANs may not allow user data in particular protocols generated by the user device . In such an embodiment the user device retains the user data that the user device was unable to transmit and transmits the retained user data at a later time. Notably the user device may connect to multiple different WPANs at a given time. When no network is found by the personal control logic user data is stored in nonvolatile memory for later transmission. Such a system is described in the 342 application.

As described hereinabove the personal control logic stores location data periodically that the personal control logic sends with user data to the central computing device . Such location data contained in the user data may be used to track the location of the user . In this regard a caregiver may have an itinerary of the user that the user is intended to follow over a period of time. Such location data can be used by the caregiver to ensure that the user follows the itinerary. Note that in one embodiment the personal control logic disables its location tracking capability so that it is unable to track the user s location.

In one embodiment the user device transmits location data in the user data periodically or on demand. If the user device transmits location data in the user data periodically e.g. at set intervals of time the central control logic generates user data indicative of the user s location history.

If the user device transmits location data on demand the central control logic transmits a notification to the user device such as with short message service SMS or through an acknowledgement message. Upon receipt the user device queries the GPS and transmits user data containing the location data to the central computing device .

Additionally the user device is configured to collect raw data from the various sensors e.g. accelerometer GPS bioamplifier barometer and other sensors hereinafter referred to collectively as the sensors and manages events that may occur related to the user. Note that the term raw data refers to data e.g. numbers characters and or symbols that have a particular meaning that have not yet been processed by a computing device or other processor. Raw data may be stored in a file in memory. In the present disclosure the raw data is the specific data received from the sensors and it is simply stored in the format received. Because it has not been processed by the computer in any way it is considered to be raw data. 

In this regard the personal control logic assesses a timestamp for each reading obtained by the sensors and stores time stamped data in memory . Such time stamped data comprises the data indicative of each reading obtained by each sensor and a timestamp for each reading obtained.

In one embodiment the personal control logic stores raw data from the sensors as raw history data . The personal control logic may then perform calculations and analysis on the raw data history buffer to determine if an event has occurred. As an example the personal control logic may determine a certain fall or a possible fall. A possible fall may be an event of interest that has satisfied some subset a fall algorithm but not enough to satisfy an actual fall. Because it may be determined later that the event in question was a fall the personal control logic stores the raw history data that may then be analyzed at a later time. The personal control logic may further determine that the possible fall may can be classified as a lower severity as described further herein.

To illustrate depicts a timeline for three axis accelerometer data Ax Ay and Az obtained from accelerometer and a corresponding timeline for the personal control logic when performing fall detection. The timeline depicts signals and control logic events over time Tto T. In this regard graph line depicts data obtained in the x direction graph line depicts data obtained in the y direction and graph line depicts data obtained in the z direction.

As shown in the timeline the lines experience a change at time T. Based on a network time reference the control logic assesses an original timestamp to the event occurrence at Twhen the event is detected. Thus the original timestamp is correlated with the actual event because the original timestamp is accessed prior to the personal control logic performing any analysis of the data obtained from the accelerometer . Thus the original timestamp is independent of latency in utilizing any on sensor resource memory or other and independent of network transmission time which can vary widely depending on the organization of the network and the variability inherent in heterogeneous networks.

Notably at time Tthe personal control logic completes processing of the event and categorizes the event as an event of interest e.g. a fall. However at time Tlatency has occurred and the actual time of the event differs from the time when the control logic completes its analysis and categorization of the data obtained. In this regard the original timestamp provided by the personal control logic is independent of latency that may occur due to processing of the data obtained. Thus in one embodiment the control logic assesses timestamps to each data point sampled from the sensors. When the control logic determines the occurrence of an event the original timestamp assessed on the original data point can be used as the timestamp for the occurrence of the event.

As illustrated in the example of the area of interest lies from approximately Tto T. In general some time interval before and after the event would be of interest and is not limited to the number displayed. Thus the control logic stores raw history data for the data indicative of the signals Ax Ay and Az during a period of time prior to the event and for s subsequent period of time after the event. In the example provided the raw history data comprises data for the six time intervals prior to event occurrence and for two intervals following the event. By storing at least seven time intervals of collected samples in the raw history data the personal control logic captures data that includes data samples indicative of signals occurring prior to an area of interest and then continue including new samples of interest occurring following the event. Thus the control logic can begin a raw data capture record with data samples from the raw history data and continue appending data collected within the area of interest through time interval Tas demonstrated in this example.

The personal control logic may use a variety of triggers in order to begin storing raw history data . In this regard the control logic may receive data indicating a fall a possible fall or the user may manually indicate to the personal control logic to begin capturing raw history data . If a fall event is detected by the personal control logic the personal control logic recovers recent raw measurements to be reported for analysis. In manual activation an actuator e.g. a push button causes the personal control logic to begin storing raw data in the raw history data .

In one embodiment the personal control logic may be activated for raw data capture discretely and raw data capture may be enabled or disabled via remote management commands. In this embodiment the control data may store data indicative of a particular configuration e.g. raw data capture on or off. Other data may also be stored related to the raw data capture such as for example the number of samples to collect and under what conditions to begin raw data capture.

In such an embodiment the central computing device may transmit a command to the user device and change the control data to change the raw data capture features e.g. turn it on off or change the number of samples captured.

In one embodiment the personal control logic collects data periodically in real time from the sensors and stores the collected data in system random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory by means of data structure such as a circular queue or buffer memory constituting the raw history data . U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 911 498 entitled Wireless Sensor Network Context Data Delivery System and Method 498 application and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 972 335 entitled Wireless Sensor Network Context Data Delivery System and Method 335 application describe techniques for storing hierarchical memory structures which may include various costs on chip RAM off chip RAM on chip non volatile memory and off chip non volatile memory both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

When the personal control logic is triggered so that it is operating in raw data collection mode a data structure containing data samples before the event may be transmitted to the central computing device either directly or through the network device e.g. a gateway device . Once the data structure fills with data after the event the personal control logic may transmit additional data. If at the time of the personal control logic is unable to transmit the raw history data the raw history data is stored as collected data in Nonvolatile or RAM such as described in the 498 application.

The central computing device further comprises user data stored in memory . The user data stores user data and other data related to the user including any data determined based upon the user data received from the user device .

The exemplary embodiment of the central computing device depicted by includes a processor which comprises processing hardware for executing instructions stored in memory . The processor communicates to and drives the other elements within the central computing device via a local interface which can include at least one bus.

Furthermore the central computing device comprises a network interface . The network interface may be any type of communication device that communicatively couples the central computing device with the network and the call center computing device and the remote access a server .

In addition the central computing device comprises an output device . The output device may be any type of device known in the art or future developed that provides data to a user or caregiver using the central computing device . As a mere example the display device may be a liquid crystal display LCD .

Furthermore the central computing device comprises an input device . The input device may be for example a keyboard.

The central control logic receives user data which includes data indicative of physiological data motion data and location data and stores the user data as user data . An exemplary central computing device is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 686 352 entitled Wireless Sensor Network System and Method for Using Same the 352 application and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 686 296 entitled Human Health Monitoring Graphical User Interface Systems and Methods the 296 application each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

During operation the central control logic analyzes the user data . In this regard the central control logic may take action if the data indicates the necessity. As an example the central control logic may notify the call center system via the network that an event e.g. a fall has occurred that needs immediate attention based upon the user data .

In one embodiment the central control logic displays to the output device a graphical user interface GUI not shown that enables a user of the central computing device to view user data and or take action based upon the viewed user data . One such GUI is described in the 296 application. In one embodiment the central control logic displays a dashboard not shown where a user can view user data indicative of past or present information about the user . Such a display may be in the form of a chronological list not shown which is a timeline of events for which user data has been received and or generated.

The GUI may further display location information contained in the user data to the user of the central computing device . In this regard the central control logic may calculate a person s location described further herein based upon user data indicative of latitude and longitude information. In particular the user data is periodically updated and or modified with additional information available provided by the user device .

As described hereinabove the central computing device may receive raw history data from the user device . In one embodiment the network device e.g. a gateway device transmits the data to the central computing device . In such an example the network device is configured to organize the raw history data into a discrete raw data capture record RDCR comprised of data indicative of a plurality of samples from the sensors and organized by sensor. For example an RDCR may include data captured from an accelerometer with three separate axes of measurements as well as a barometric pressure sensor. In this example the network device organizes the raw history data into four discrete channels where the first three channels represent independent axes of the accelerometer and the fourth channel represents the barometric pressure sensor. The RDCR may also include an identifier for the device sending the capture data a time stamp where the measurements were taken a sequence number and optionally a length field. The timestamp is used to mark precisely the time of the event that triggered the data collection.

In one embodiment the central computing device may comprise data indicative of a sampling rate for the sensors. In the case where the central computing device comprises data indicative of the sensor sampling rate on user device the entries in the raw history data may each have the same timestamp. An exemplary data packet for the RDCR format is illustrated in . A data packet is depicted. The data packet comprises a timestamp entry a measurement classification entry a device identifier a customer identifier and a capture starting sequence identifier . In addition the data captured may be transmitted in the packet comprising a sample number and data obtained and transmitted in the channels n indicated by entries and . Additional samples may be transmitted as well as indicated in entries .

The data packet is delivered to the central computing device . The data packet may be delivered using any number of formats including a REST POST of XML. One such example is shown below 

The sequence number identifier comprises data indicative of a sequence number of a first item in an array of samples. In one embodiment the central control logic implies a sequence number for each data point indicated by the entries after the first entry sample number . The implied sequence number may be a number indicative of the sequence identifier incremented or the sequence identifier before it incremented. The sequence number identifier resolves the order in which the samples were collected yielding proper ordering with respect to time. The channel numbers indicted in entries are used to discern one axis from another or more generally to discern data collected from different sensors. A length field may also be integrated into the data packet per channel to indicate how many data points for a given channel. Note that a length channel may not be needed if the total number of data points is fixed per the sensors.

When transmitting the record over the network the network device may segment the RDCR file into a number of smaller data packets not shown for transfer. In such a scenario a standard file transfer protocol may be used or alternatively an application specific RDCR transfer protocol may used. By way of example an RDCR start message can be used to signify a start of record transfer and an RDCR stop message may be used to signify stop of transfer. The start record message may signify the identifier of the device or user sending the capture data and the time of the collection reported in each of the data point packets. An exemplary message transmission sequence is illustrated in . The message transmission sequence may be a capture start packet as indicated by block . An example of a RDCR start packet is show below 

Once the start packet is captured in block the central control logic captures the data packet sequence for channel in block channel in block channel in block and so on. The final packet transferred may be a capture stop packet .

In one embodiment the personal control logic on the user device creates the data packet and communicates the data packet to the central computing device . As an example the user device may be a mobile device as described that does not communicate via the network device . The personal control logic may be configured to transmit the data packet to the central computing device solicited or unsolicited i.e. the central computing device requests the data packet or the user device automatically transmits the data packet to the central computing device . A use of device management protocol is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 972 275 entitled Wireless Sensor Network Data management System and Method the 275 application and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 686 342 entitled Human Health Monitoring Systems and Methods the 342 application both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The central control logic may store the received RDCR as raw history data in memory . Note that data communication techniques such as HTTP based web services may be used to ensure reliable transmission of the data packets even in the event it must be segmented into smaller packets for transmission over the network. These techniques are also used to resolve retransmission policies out of sequence arrivals and duplicate transmissions.

As the central control logic receives the data packets the central control logic stores data indicative of the received data packets in real time in memory in the raw history data . When a new RDCR is received by the central control logic the central control logic may assign a unique identifier e.g. a randomly generated number for the record. The data packets may also contain the user identifier and device identifier making it possible for the central control logic to associate the data packet with a particular user and a particular device. In addition the central control logic may also associate other data with the data packet . For example users can later apply various annotative tags for further qualifying the nature of the contained record e.g. real fall normal motion suspect fall getting into bed .

Once the data packet is successfully stored as the raw history data it is accessible for review by company scientists researchers or engineers tasked with inspecting and improving event detection methods. To facilitate easy access the central control logic may display an interface not shown where users can specify records of interest by providing timestamp the global RDCR record identifier or supplied search terms and then download the record to a machine readable file format. By way of example one such file format may be an ASCII text file organized as a comma separated values CSV file format. Such a file could also be used easily by analytical research tools such as Mathworks Matlab Microsoft Excel or other analysis package. In addition this makes it possible to graphically plot each channel from the RDCR on a human readable chart where the X axis may represents time or sample sequence number and the Y axis represents the magnitude of the collected sample.

The raw history data captured by the user device and transmitted to the central computing device may be used in a number of ways. In this regard a caregiver or responder e.g. a user of the central computing device may be used the raw data to determine conditions that lead to an event. For example one may be able to determine if a physiological change in the user e.g. change in body temperature or heart rate led to the event e.g. a fall.

Additionally the raw history data may be used by researchers and developers to hone the system and create better fall detection methods for example or other event detection methods. The raw history data may be used to analyze normal motion patters of a particular user and such analysis may be used to determine a custom algorithm for the user of the user device . For example a particular user of the user device may periodically experience the same physiological changes prior to an event e.g. the user s heart rate may speed up or slow down prior to the user experiencing unconsciousness. The user s device and or the central computing device may be custom configured to detect the user s behavior patterns or physiological patterns and in effect predict an imminent event e.g. a fall.

By way of example analysis techniques may include inspection of frequency domain characteristics time domain characteristics signal processing and filtering techniques identifying maximum accelerations integration of said signals extracted intermediary parameters such as estimated energy expenditure static acceleration due to gravitational pull user orientation and even fractional free fall episodes where measured gravitational pull is below 1G etc. Fall detection techniques are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 192 855 the 855 application entitled Wearable Health Monitoring Device and Methods for Fall Detection which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In addition to the detailed analysis on individual raw history data scientists and engineers may use the raw history data in aggregate to test a new method on a laboratory computer not shown before it is committed to a user s device . In one embodiment the raw history data may be annotated and stored as user data . If the raw history data is annotated with either real fall or normal motion identifiers a developer may create laboratory test programs that process the user data that contains the raw history data and annotations or a subset of the user data with a new proposed algorithm. In this regard the user data may comprise raw history data with annotations in addition to the variety of other data collected per user which is indicative of thousands of users physiological characteristics and corresponding behavior patters during performance of a variety of activities potentially over the course of years. Such user data may be tested programmatically in a laboratory without the need to conduct user empirical testing. Further the present invention enables RDCRs to be tagged subdivided and categorized so that during research particular aspects or types of fall behavior can be improved upon to help fall detection in general.

If a new method is created especially one customized for a particular user the software and or firmware can be tested and transmitted to the user device for execution by processing unit . In particular the software and or firmware embodying the new method may be transmitted remotely on an individual basis across a subset of users or all devices in the system .

The raw history data may also be used to improve customer satisfaction. In this regard a company representatives may be able to identify dissatisfied customers those that may be experiencing performance issues with the fall detection capability and then to obtain raw history data from the user s device during the period of time in which the user was experiencing problems. Company scientists engineers may analyze the raw history data and determine opportunities for enhancement implement new software and or hardware and test the effectiveness of the new software and or hardware and or firmware against the raw history data and or user data to ensure that the new software and or hardware and or firmware works properly.

As described hereinabove raw history data or the raw history data on the user device may be used to determine severity of events and or program sensitivity to events on the user device . In this regard human motion is complex and measured signals can vary greatly due to body sizes age of the individual degrees of physical activity and even individual behavior patterns. In one embodiment the system may incorporate configuration settings e.g. in the control data in the user device to enable individual adjustment of the software firmware and or hardware after deployment to account for such variations.

In one embodiment the system may customize event detection methods e.g. fall detection per user. For example the system may be customized to define severity levels and categorize each fall or detected motion event into a defined severity category. In this regard the higher the severity level the more likely the user will incur injury and the greater the extent of the injury may be. In turn each parameter used by an employed fall method in the software firmware and or hardware such as those described in 855 application may include tiers of thresholds which are associated with the varying degrees of fall severity.

One embodiment may use a method as described in the 855 application where the event detection method relies upon N distinct parameters numbered Parameter Parameter . . . Parameter where each parameter represents a processed signal comprised of discrete samples. Each Parameter includes a threshold for determining if a particular event has occurred i.e. a parameter has been triggered. If a parameter is said to have been triggered this indicates that the motion pattern detected satisfies the threshold for that particular parameter within a given time constraint. For example the software firmware and or hardware has a positive output indicating an event e.g. a fall has occurred when at least M of N parameters trigger co temporally within a defined time window and where 1 M N.

For example Parametermay include a threshold of a specified magnitude Xand Parametera threshold of magnitude Xand so forth. In one embodiment the system associates with each parameter s threshold a severity level. Consequently Parameterwill include thresholds X X X . . . X where K denotes the number of severity levels and each threshold Xcorresponds to Parameterseverity level j. In the case where an increasing magnitude of a parameter signifies increasing severity then X X X . . . X but the disclosure is in no way limited by this convention.

Thus the system may not only detect an event e.g. a fall but also indicate the severity level of the event. Consequently a scenario where N parameters are used and N 1 of the parameters satisfy severity level of 3 and the remaining parameter has a severity level of 2 then event would be considered severity level of 2. It is also worth noting that this categorization technique is not limited by this disclosure and is only reference as example. Other examples of event severity categorization may include using the parameter with highest severity by requiring a specified fraction of parameters e.g. highest categorization of at least 50 of said parameters or possibly a weighted function where each parameter carries a unique weight in determination.

In one embodiment the system comprises a programmable event sensitivity level on a per user basis. In this regard the event sensitivity level is a threshold used to determine if an event has occurred and is associated with a specific severity level. For example each user device can be programmed with default sensitivity levels and the personal control logic or the central control logic may modify the programmed sensitivity levels based upon new information e.g. a change in the user s physical condition. When the personal control logic detects and event the personal control logic is configured to assign a maximum detected severity level in accordance with a severity categorization technique described above. The personal control logic compares the severity level of the detected event to the programmed sensitivity level. If the personal control logic determines that the detected event is not of severity level equal or greater to the programmed sensitivity level then the detected event is not deemed sufficiently severe. Subsequently the personal control logic may use this determination for subsequent events to determine whether a detected event is suppressed reported or reported in a manner that signifies a non emergency event. Thus if a user is experiencing multiple false reports of events e.g. falls from performing normal activities the personal control logic can adjust the sensitivity threshold for optimal performance for a given user and potentially suppress false positives caused by normal activity but still able to detect real falls from higher severity.

In one embodiment the central control logic may remotely adjust control data on the user device thereby adjusting a configuration parameter governing sensitivity levels for an event. In this regard the control data may be modified dynamically so that the personal control logic ignores detected events below a specified severity level. This remote provisioning can be changed by a member of a customer support team or potentially through a user interface exposed to the user or caregiver. One such embodiment of a user interface is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 686 296 entitled Human Health Monitoring Graphical User Interface Systems and Methods which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In one embodiment the personal control logic based upon previous raw history data may dynamically augment severity levels store the change in the RAM and transmit a notification to the central computing device acknowledging the new sensitivity level. At any point the current level can be retrieved from the device by requesting such information using a management command protocol.

In another embodiment the sensitivity level could also be set using some other means such as a set of dual in line package DIP switches accessible by the user a slide switch not shown or through a graphical user interface GUI placed directly on the user device such as an LCD display not shown and menu buttons not shown .

In another embodiment the personal control logic may monitor the user s activity and or behaviors and profile such activities and or behavior. For example the first 48 hours of use of the user device could be used to establish a baseline of physical activity for a user . Based on the empirically measured baseline the sensitivity can be assigned accordingly. Because of the unique instrumentation capabilities of the architecture disclosed within the sensitivity assignment can be developed in straightforward fashion by collecting historical activity averages for a large set of users then statistically analyzing the activity levels and corresponding fall algorithm performance to establish guidelines for appropriate sensitivity levels.

In one embodiment the device can suppress particular events based upon monitored data. In this regard regardless of a programmed sensitivity level data indicative of an event can be transmitted to the central computing device and annotate the event with the maximum measured severity. The central control logic may compare the reported event severity level with a configured sensitivity record on behalf of each user. If the event is of severity such that it should be suppressed the central control logic can suppress notifications and or Call Center emergency response protocols. Similarly if it is of sufficient severity that it requires action then normal response protocol can be followed.

In one embodiment the system can determine whether a change in severity levels would be beneficial. The system described resembles a system as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 686 342 where all fall detection devices report fall events to a personal monitoring computing device where it is stored in a database. The database allows for data to be collected for all events e.g. falls across all users of the system as well as the capability to look at all events or a subset of events for a given user. From this data an individual may employ statistics to provide information about any patterns in the behavior of a given user such as frequent falls of a given severity level. The central control logic may then transmit notifications for a caregiver or a responder to use to evaluate whether to change the sensitivity threshold or to change automatically based on pre set conditions. Additionally a user or caregiver may request adjustment or make adjustments through a GUI based on their own experience and observation.

During the process where user movements are being evaluated to detect falls as described in the 855 patent parameters used to determine a fall may be retained in system memory in data structures i.e. a list and the personal control logic may use the parameter data to evaluate if an event e.g. a fall has occurred. In one embodiment the personal control logic may update fall parameters based upon discrete data obtained from the sensors. The personal control logic uses the data as described in the 855 application to determine if a fall has occurred for example. The personal control logic then saves this data in memory has user data and associated with the reported fall event by an associated timestamp or a unique fall identifier. The personal control logic may then transmit the parameters to a central computing device . One such method is described in the 342 application where they are stored with their associated fall identifier and timestamp for future reference. The user device may transmit the parameters in a fall notification message sent to the central computing device and the central control logic associates the new parameters for immediate access. In one embodiment the user device may deliver the new parameters separately

In addition to verification retrieval of fall parameters can yield insight in refining the thresholds used in a given fall algorithm such as described in the 855 application. By gathering statistics about fall severity and analyzing individual parameter performance in that context can lead to data driven improvement of individual parameters. This can also be used to develop and improve user sensitivity level assignment.

Furthermore the entire collection of event parameter data and raw history data may be used to refine thresholds used to identify severity of an event e.g. a fall. In this regard one may cross reference an outcome of a detected event such as for example the degree of injury sustained or user reported severity with the event parameter data and the raw history data . In response to the comparison the severity levels of the event parameter data or raw history data may be adjusted manually or automatically as described hereinabove. Such a comparison may further be used to identify false event reporting. In this regard over time patterns can develop that correlate certain event parameter data with particular activities of daily living. These patterns can lead scientists and engineers to refine the methods employed by the personal control logic to reject false positives for specific normal motion patterns.

In one embodiment during a process where user movements are being evaluated to detect falls as described in the 855 application state variables are used to make a fall determination. Such state variables are hereinafter referred to as fall metadata. The fall metadata is data indicative of calculated and measured values that are used by the system including the personal control logic and the central control logic is retained in memory in data structures i.e. a list and used to evaluate if a fall occurred. The fall metadata is updated each time the personal control logic performs a fall detection algorithm to determine if a fall has occurred.

When the personal control logic determines that the fall metadata indicates a fall has occurred the personal control logic stores the fall metadata as time stamped data in the user data and associated with the event data i.e. the motion data or the physiological data . Further the personal control logic associates a timestamp or a unique fall identifier with the metadata.

The personal control logic then transmits the fall metadata e.g. the time stamped data to the central computing device . Such process including transmission is described in the 342 application. The time stamped data and any other relevant data which may include the raw history data is stored as event metadata with an associated event identifier and timestamp for future reference. These corresponding event parameter data may also be sent to the central computing device as part of the same fall notification message to ensure proper association and immediate access to event parameter data user data or raw history data or they may be delivered separately should combining the additional data with the fall event not be practical or possible.

Post mortem retrieval of fall parameters empowers the development process and aids ongoing refinement of fall detection algorithms. A device that is malfunctioning may be using or reporting corrupted fall parameters or measurements leading to erroneous fall events. When combined with raw data capture support it serves as a verification mechanism for proper operation of the device and fall algorithm by checking that the fall parameters calculated by the device for a given event match those calculated from the raw capture data from the same event.

In addition to verification retrieval of fall parameters can yield insight in refining the thresholds used in a given fall algorithm such as described in the 855 application. By gathering statistics about fall severity and analyzing individual parameter performance in that context can lead to data driven improvement of individual parameters. This can also be used to develop and improve user sensitivity level assignment algorithms as described herein.

Furthermore the entire collection of stored event parameter data and raw history data can be used to refine the threshold tiers used to identify the severity of a fall. In this regard one may cross reference the outcome of a fall event such as the degree of injury sustained or user reported severity with the event parameter data or raw history data collected to adjust configurable sensitivity levels as described hereinabove. Scientists can use the data to properly match the injury level of a fall with a detected fall severity of level. False fall rejection can also be improved by cross referencing collected event parameter data and the raw history data with event outcomes as well. Over time patterns can develop that correlate certain parameter levels with particular activities of daily living. These patterns can lead scientists and engineers to refine the algorithm to reject false positives for specific normal motion patterns.

The call center system further comprises user data stored in memory . The user data data related to the user that is received from the central computing device including any data determined by the central computing device based upon the user data received from the user device .

The exemplary embodiment of the call center system depicted by includes a processor which comprises processing hardware for executing instructions stored in memory . The processor communicates to and drives the other elements within the call center system via a local interface which can include at least one bus.

Furthermore the call center system comprises a network interface . The network interface may be any type of communication device that communicatively couples the call center system with the network and the call center system and the remote access a server .

In addition the call center system comprises an output device . The output device may be any type of device known in the art or future developed that provides data to a user or caregiver using the call center system . As a mere example the output device may be a liquid crystal display LCD .

Furthermore the call center system comprises an input device . The input device may be for example a keyboard.

In one embodiment the call center system is available 24 7 to assist users in response to an event. In this regard the call center control logic receives data indicative of an event from the central computing device . The call center control logic stores the received event data as event data . The event data may comprise data indicative of a type of alert the location of the user and or the time the event occurred. In response the call center control logic automatically attempts to establish contact with the user via the telephone network directly calling the user device or a user of the call center system manually establishing e.g. calling the user device . If the user responds to the attempted contact and requests help or the user device automatically answers but no contact is made with the user the user of the call center system may dispatch necessary emergency responders to the user based upon the location information contained in the event data . Notably the personal control logic is configured to automatically answer such a call from the call center system in the event that the user is unable to take action to respond to the call.

In one embodiment the user device may initiate a call to the call center system once an event has occurred for example if the user is still capable of taking action or a caregiver not shown is with the user when the event occurs. In such an embodiment the call center control logic dynamically bind e.g. by associating data indicative of the telephone number calling obtained from a caller identification caller ID system with data indicative of the event that has occurred. In this regard the event data may comprise an identifier e.g. the mobile phone number of the device that the call center control logic may used to associate the event data .

In one embodiment the user device establishes a modem call directly with the call center system . When the call center system answers such a call event data and or user data may be transmitted after connection. When such a call is answered the call center control logic connects the call to a call center system user and switches the call to voice mode thereby establishing a voice call between the user and the user and or caregiver at the call center system . Such binding of the event data and the incoming call from the user device may further be associated with event data and user data obtained from the central computing device .

The user device may efficiently deliver the user data to the central computing device . In one embodiment the user device may employ a less reliable transport mechanism and a best effort transmission policy such as provided by the User Datagram Protocol UDP . Best effort delivery like that used in UDP transmissions allows the transmissions to be connectionless. In one embodiment data transmitted is in the form of a binary data object.

If UDP is employed datagrams as defined by the UDP sent by the user device may comprise a sequence number so that redundant transmissions can be identified a timestamp to indicate when in time these measurements were taken a type field to identify the type of measurements that are reported assuming the type reported is not always the same and control fields to enable a simple acknowledgement system to ensure data is properly delivered. Other data that may be sent with a datagram containing the user data is described with reference to the 342 application.

In one embodiment the central computing device poles a port not shown on the central computing device . If a datagram is received the central control logic continues to receive and store subsequent datagrams until the last datagram in the sequence is received. In this regard the central control logic will keep a running table to the last sequence number received from each user device from which central control logic has received messages with timeouts to remove an entry after a certain threshold of time has expired without activity . Thus the central control logic can ignore duplicates receipts of user data . Once this has occurred the central control logic transmits an acknowledgement to the user device .

In one embodiment the central control logic may request a management operation for the user device e.g. firmware upgrade remote provisioning reset of device . In such an embodiment when user data is reported to the central control logic the central control logic may transmit data in the acknowledgement that indicates that a management operation is pending. For example the central control logic may set a flag toggle a bit in the acknowledgement sent to the user device to indicate the management operation is pending. In such an embodiment the central control logic waits until it receives a counter acknowledgement from the user device and may resend periodically if no acknowledgement is received from the user device . When the user device receives such a flagged acknowledgement transmits an acknowledgement to the central control logic and transmit an additional message for instruction from the central control logic . Because management operations are infrequent and subsequently will not have a significant impact on overall data usage the connection established for instruction may or may not use a different protocol such as a REST POST interface described in the 335 application. The central control logic and the user device personal control logic may comprise timeout logic to prevent deadlock should communications fail during transmission.

In another embodiment the central control logic transmits an acknowledgement to the user device after each user data transmission is received that contains the sequence number of the last user data received. If the user device does not receive the acknowledgement in the event that the acknowledgement is either lost in transit or that the original packet never arrived at the server it will retransmit the original user data according to a particular waiting period.

In one embodiment a Virtual Private Network VPN can be erected between the network and the central computing device in order to protect user data traveling through network . In one embodiment IPSec or another protocol may be may be used to establish the VPN and encrypt the data. With this method data is still securely transmitted end to end but the additional overhead of this VPN tunnel is not borne by the expensive wireless segment of the system and the user data is still protected.

In one embodiment of the system the central computing device uses the location data e.g. GPS coordinates contained in the user data to identify a proper Public Service Access Point PSAP for the user who is in need of emergency help. The PSAP is a 10 digit equivalent of 9 1 1 access and can be assigned statically into the user device . In addition the personal monitoring computer device may search a list of identifiers and associated PSAP numbers based upon the location of the user as identified in the user data received by the central computing device . In one embodiment the central control logic may determine a street address near the user and perform an indexed lookup for emergency service based on street information.

In another embodiment of the system the central computing device transmits location data and or nearby street information from call center system . The call center system may automatically determine an appropriate PSAP or a caregiver may manually find an appropriate PSAP.

In another embodiment the user device establishes not only 2 way communication but 3 way communication as well with the call center system . The call center system contacts the user device to determine if assistance is needed. If help is desired the Call Center establishes a 3 way call such that the user device calls emergency services using e911. By utilizing the e911 system not shown the central computing device and the call center system would never need to resolve PSAP.

In another embodiment the system provides information that a caregiver can use to locate a user other than the GPS coordinates as provided by the user device . For example the call center control logic can display a map centered directly on the last known location provided by GPS if outdoors or cellular triangulation to assist the GPS if indoors where GPS alone may not function of the user . On such a map the control logic may highlight a nearby street or intersection or apply a circle around the location of the user . In one embodiment the displayed map can overlay GPS coordinates of the user with street level pictures showing what the area near the user looks like and marking nearby buildings.

In one embodiment the user data received from the user device may be used to calculate an elevation location of the user e.g. what floor a user may be located on in a building. In this regard the barometer obtains and stores data indicative of the pressure that the personal control logic or the central control logic may use to determine elevation location. The elevation location information stored as location data is transmitted to the central computing device .

The elevation location information contained in the user data may be used to determine the user s elevation above sea level. The central control logic can use the elevation information i.e. the barometric pressure at the time the user data was obtained and translate the user data containing the barometric pressure into feet to determine where i.e. what floor a user is located on in a building.

In addition the central control logic may use the longitude and latitude measurements to access a service of a global elevation database. The central control logic may use the elevation data retrieved to calculate a difference between the measured elevation and the retrieved elevation to obtain the user s height above the street level i.e. the height above sea level for the location represented by the latitude and longitude data identifying the user s location. The difference between the height above sea level at the particular location and the user s height above sea level is transmitted to emergency personnel either through voice or electronically so the emergency personnel can locate the user . For example the user may be 80 feet above street level which may indicate that the user is on the 8floor of a building or in a treetop.

Because this information is provided verbally to emergency service responders it will be up to the responders to interpret the details and use judgment on which floor the user may actually be located. But providing this information can save precious minutes by narrowing the search to a starting floor. In very large structures this may mean the difference between life and death if responders cannot locate the user s floor in the structure.

Barometers are subject to a number of variations such as temperature. In order to calculate the absolute height above sea level the present disclosure does not necessarily require problematic error prone and expensive factory calibration techniques and devices. The user device circumvents using such techniques and devices by determining a baseline elevation referred to as a street level elevation and measuring the changes in elevation i.e. height of user in relation to the street level elevation. Thus a caregiver can provide more definitive information to a responder about a user s location without reference to a global elevation database. In such an embodiment the user device personal control logic may query the accelerometer and use the result to calibrate street level as a point of reference. In this embodiment the user device personal control logic compares readings from the accelerometer and the barometer and compares those readings to threshold values i.e. values that have been determined to indicate motion of the user in order to determine when the user is in motion. If the user s location is changing the user device personal control logic samples the barometer to obtain a set of street level data. The user device personal control logic may average accelerometer and the barometer data over a time interval. Thresholds for in transit are set so that they will not pick up movement in typical structures. For example walking around a parking garage is not sufficient movement to trigger in transit. As an example in transit could mean travelling more than a half mile in one hour. In addition in transit would be set so that it is unlikely or impossible to be in transit while ascending or descending stairs or an elevator. In this fashion the user device personal control logic allows the pressure recorded at an actual event time to be compared to the pressure at last known street level calibration. The difference represents an elevation change representative of the user s approximate height above street level and can be conveyed to responders as described above. In such an embodiment the barometer need not be very accurate because we have no interest in absolute elevation above sea level. Instead the personal control logic determines changes in elevation and not absolute accuracy .

In one embodiment the personal control logic may use a transportation map and or database to further refine the street level approximation. For example when the user device determines that the user is in transit and is at street level the personal control logic may use his her location and path of movement to determine if the user is on a public transportation system such as an underground train or subway. In such a case the user s calibrated street level is augmented with this data to determine actual street level by knowing the user was 40 feet underground during the last calibration. This adjustment could happen in real time by communicating with the central control logic or the user device personal control logic may adjust resolution time by delivering either with the event or periodically so that the central control logic can determine if the last calibrated location was in effect street level or if additional adjustment is required.

In step a sensing device i.e. user device is coupled to a network and the sensing device collects raw data from the sensing device related to the user . In step the sensing device transmits raw history data to a computing device via the network .

In step the central control logic determines a whether an event has occurred or is likely to occur based upon the raw history data . Further with reference to step the central control logic transmits data indicative of the predicted event for example to a caregiver or the call center system .

