---

title: Flow cells for electron microscope imaging with multiple flow streams
abstract: Provided are flow cell devices—referred to as nanoaquariums—that are microfabricated devices featuring a sample chamber having a controllable height in the range of nanometers to micrometers. The cells are sealed so as to withstand the vacuum environment of an electron microscope without fluid loss. The cells allow for the concurrent flow of multiple sample streams and may be equipped with electrodes, heaters, and thermistors for measurement and other analysis devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09196457&OS=09196457&RS=09196457
owner: The Trustees Of The University Of Pennsylvania
number: 09196457
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120523
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 489 405 Flow Cells for Electron Microscope Imaging with Multiple Flow Streams filed on May 24 2011 and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for any and all purposes.

This invention was made with government support under grants CBET 0609062 and DMR 0425780 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to the fields of microfabricated devices and to the field of electron microscopy.

The invention of the electron microscope has facilitated advances in scientific endeavors ranging from materials science to chemistry to biology to medicine. However generally the electron microscope may use a high vacuum environment and is not capable of imaging processes in real time in fluids such as water without significant modification. When studying liquid borne processes the current electron imaging technology is restricted to postmortem after the fact investigations of dry or frozen samples. This is a slow painstaking procedure without any guarantee that an image is captured at the right moment. Moreover the preparation of the sample for observation may alter it in a fundamental way. Also frozen images do not provide information on process dynamics. Although the environmental microscope permits the use of liquid samples typically stability of the liquid sample can be a challenge and observations may be limited to processes taking place at the liquid s surface. An ability to image dynamic processes in liquid media in real time and to interact with the processes is certain to provide a better understanding of many nanoscale phenomena such as 1 nanoscale particle interactions 2 colloidal crystals and formation of meta materials with unique properties 3 electrochemical deposition and etching 4 processes associated with charging and discharging of batteries 5 interfacial phenomena 6 biological interactions 7 conformational changes and 8 protein and nanoparticle migration on lipid membranes. Better understanding of the physics involved in these diverse phenomena will doubtlessly lead to new processes and technologies.

The general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Other aspects of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the detailed description of the invention as provided herein.

In one embodiment the present disclosure provides devices the devices suitably including a chamber defined by upper and lower membranes the chamber having a height in the range of from about 10 nm to about 50 m at least one inlet in fluid communication with the chamber and at least one outlet in fluid communication with the chamber.

Also provided are methods the methods suitably including depositing from about 10 nm to about 10 m of a spacer material atop a bottom membrane material processing the spacer material so as to define a chamber atop the bottom membrane material and bonding a top membrane material to the spacer material so as to seal the chamber.

Further disclosed are fabrication methods the fabrication methods suitably including coating a bottom membrane with a quantity of a sacrificial spacer material coating the first sacrificial material with a top membrane material forming one or more passages through the top membrane material so as to expose at least a portion of the sacrificial spacer material etching away at least a portion of the sacrificial spacer material so as to form a space between the bottom membrane and top membrane and sealing at least one of the passages.

The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description taken in connection with the accompanying figures and examples which form a part of this disclosure. It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the specific devices methods applications conditions or parameters described and or shown herein and that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments by way of example only and is not intended to be limiting of the claimed invention. Also as used in the specification including the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include the plural and reference to a particular numerical value includes at least that particular value unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The term plurality as used herein means more than one. When a range of values is expressed another embodiment includes from the one particular value and or to the other particular value. Similarly when values are expressed as approximations by use of the antecedent about it will be understood that the particular value forms another embodiment. All ranges are inclusive and combinable. All documents mentioned herein are incorporated by their entireties for any and all purposes.

It should be understood that the terms top and bottom are used solely for cross reference between the text and the figures and that in the actual device the top and bottom are interchangeable. For example certain described embodiments disclose a conductive material disposed on a bottom membrane. Such conductive material however could be deposited on the top membrane without changing the function of the device. In certain applications of course it may be desirable to deposit electrodes metallic lines or other conductive materials on both top and bottom membranes.

It is to be appreciated that certain features of the invention which are for clarity described herein in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the invention that are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any subcombination. Further reference to values stated in ranges include each and every value within that range.

In a first aspect the present application provides devices. The devices include a chamber defined by upper and lower membranes the chamber having a height in the range of from about 10 nm to about 100 m at least one inlet in fluid communication with the chamber and at least one outlet in fluid communication with the chamber.

In some cases the upper and lower membranes are surmounted respectively by upper and lower layers. These upper and lower layers can lend structural support to the membranes. The upper and lower layers are optional as a device may have an upper layer supporting the upper membrane a lower layer supporting the lower membrane or both. Alternatively membranes may be deposited directly onto the spacer material without any support layers. The upper and lower layers may be silicon as shown in the appended figures although other material such as polymers plastics are suitable. A layer may have a thickness in the range of from about 50 nm to about 1 mm with preferred thickness of from about 200 m to about 300 m The upper and lower layers may themselves have apertures formed thereon. The apertures are suitably in register with at least a portion of the chamber and with one another. One such example is which figure illustrates silicon layers above and below the SiN membranes that define a flow channel the silicon layers having apertures formed therethrough. In some other cases the membranes may be deposited directly on the spacer material.

The height of the chamber is suitably defined by the thickness of a spacer material disposed between the upper and lower membranes. Suitable spacer materials include silicon oxide silicon nitride silicon oxynitride silicon aluminum oxide aluminum nitride hafnium oxide tantalum nitride gold platinum silver copper aluminum indium tin oxide polymer photoresist polymer epoxy parylene and the like. The spacer material suitably has a thickness in the range of from about 5 nm to about 10 micrometers or from about 10 nm to about 1 micrometer or from about 50 nm to about 500 nm.

Devices may also include one two or more electrodes disposed within the chamber. The electrodes may be deposited on the bottom surface and or on the top surface. Devices may also include heaters thermistors and the like disposed within the chamber. is illustrative showing two electrodes present within the device s flow chamber. An electrode may be adapted so as to dielectrophoretically trap particles. In one exemplary embodiment an electrode is used to trap particles so that the particles may be positioned within the chamber and further analyzed.

A device may also include one or more fluid storage reservoirs capable of fluid communication with the chamber. The fluid reservoirs may be connected to an inlet or outlet of the device. The fluid storage reservoir may also be in fluid communication with a gas reservoir. The gas reservoir may be either in the chip or in the chip holder. Fluid and gas storage reservoirs are configured such that expansion of gas in the gas storage reservoir displaces fluid from the fluid storage reservoir. The liquid or fluid in the storage reservoir may be stored on a chip or cartridge. The gas storage reservoir e.g. filled with air may be disposed on a holder or base that engaged with the cartridge. Gas expansion may be achieved by heating. Alternatively gas e.g. air may be compressed by deflecting a membrane. The gas may be transmitted directly into the observation chamber to form gas liquid interface to enable observations of processes taking place at liquid gas interface and processes driven by evaporation. The device differs from other liquid cells in incorporating liquid storage and means to pump the liquids within the device. Typically liquid storage and pumping are accommodated outside the vacuum chamber of the microscope requiring a sample holder with hydraulic passages. Fluid displacement may be effected by a chemical or electrochemical reaction. As one example the membrane may be deflected by evolution of gas from a chemical or electrochemical reaction. As another example the membrane may be deflected by a membrane that is piezoelectrically actuated.

The devices may include other components. For example the devices may include a pump that is in fluid communication with the chamber. In such embodiments the pump may be used to exert fluid into the chamber or even to remove fluid from the chamber. The devices may also include a storage vessel e.g. a reservoir chamber vial and the like that is in fluid communication with the chamber. Such storage vessels may be used to contain sample reagents washes and the like for introduction to the chamber.

One situation presented by some liquid cells is that when the liquid cell is inserted into the vacuum chamber of the electron microscope the pressure difference between the inside and outside of the liquid cell causes a significant deformation of the membranes effectively increases the thickness of the liquid layer sometimes many fold. Increased thickness of the liquid leads to increased scattering of electrons by the suspending medium and reduced resolution. In an optional embodiment of the device the device may include one or more pillars connecting between the upper and lower membranes. These pillars may act to strengthen or stiffen the membranes so as to reduce membrane deflection as illustrated in . A pillar may have a cross sectional dimension e.g. width or diameter in the range of from about 0.1 micrometer to about 10 micrometers or in the range of from about 10 micrometers to about 50 micrometers.

Membranes may be fabricated from materials that are transparent to electrons. Silicon nitride is considered especially suitable silicon oxide silicon oxynitride carbon graphene polymers and the like are also suitable. Membranes may have a thickness in the range of from about 5 nm to about 100 nm or from about 20 nm to about 50 nm.

An aperture of the device may have a cross sectional dimension in the range of from about 50 nm to about 1 millimeter or even from about 100 nm to about 1 micrometer or even from about 500 nm to about 750 nm.

As shown in the device may be constructed such that two or more conduits converge. This allows the user to mix two or more fluid streams and image streams individually or even after the streams have combined as shown in .

Systems may be constructed that include one two three or even more of the disclosed devices. These devices may reside on a single substrate. Multiple devices may draw on the same source of sample or reagent or may have their own independent sources of sample or reagent.

Also disclosed are methods. The disclosed methods include depositing from about 10 nm to about 10 m of a spacer material atop a bottom membrane material processing the spacer material so as to define a chamber atop the bottom membrane material and bonding a top membrane material to the spacer material so as to seal the chamber.

In some embodiments the methods include depositing an amount e.g. from about 10 nm to about 10 micrometers of a sacrificial spacer material atop a bottom membrane material processing the spacer material to define chambers conduits and optional pillars atop the bottom membrane material depositing a top membrane material that conformally coats the sacrificial spacer material opening access holes in the top membrane etching the spacer material to form a hollow channel between the top and bottom membrane layers and depositing a layer of material to seal the access holes in the top membrane so as to seal the chamber.

Methods may include depositing an electrically conductive material atop the bottom membrane material and or under the top membrane material so as to define one or more conductive regions such as electrodes. The spacer material may be processed so as to expose at least a portion of the at least one or more conductive regions. The exposed portion of the one or more conductive regions may be disposed within the chamber. In some embodiments the conductive material conducts heat but is not exposed in the chamber. In such an embodiment the conductive material is disposed beneath a material like silicon oxide or silicon nitride and is not exposed to the interior of the chamber. The exposed or unexposed patterned metallic layers can serve as electrodes and actuators. The actuators can induce DC and AC electric fields and facilitate dielectrophoretic trapping.

Processing the spacer material further comprises processing the spacer material so as to give rise to one or more pillars extending between the bottom and top membranes. The user may also bond a bottom support material to the bottom membrane bonding a top support material to the top membrane or both. Users may also form one or more apertures in the bottom support material the top support material or both an aperture is suitably as shown in in register with the chamber. Apertures also suitably extends through the top membrane or through the bottom membrane and may also extend to a conduit capable of fluid communication with the chamber. The user may also process the spacer material so as to define one or more fluid conduits in fluid communication with the chamber.

An exemplary fabrication is shown in . As shown in that figure a 50 nm silicon nitride deposited by low pressure chemical vapor deposition. b 30 nm Ti Pt Ti electrode stack deposited and patterned by evaporation and liftoff c 150 nm silicon oxide deposited by plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition. d Oxide planarization in a chemical mechanical polisher. e Backside nitride patterned in reactive ion etcher. f Frontside oxide patterned with buffered oxide etch. g Plasma activated wafer bonding to a blank nitride coated wafer. h Backside nitride on the top wafer patterned in reactive ion etcher. i Windows and vias etched with potassium hydroxide. j Inlet outlet and electrodes are exposed.

Another exemplary method is shown in . As shown in exemplary fabrication steps may include a deposition a sacrificial spacer e.g. amorphous silicon on a bottom membrane e.g. silicon nitride coated wafer . The methods may also include b deposition of a top membrane e.g. conformal silicon nitride . The methods may further include patterning and etching of the bottom membrane so as to form a suspended membrane viewing window. The methods may further include etching the top membrane e.g. to form a passage so as to expose or otherwise gain access to the sacrificial spacer material. The user may etch the sacrificial spacer material e.g. via xenon difluoride vapor phase etch of amorphous silicon so as to remove the spacer leaving behind a channel pillar or other structure between the top and bottom membranes. The user may then apply an additional material e.g. silicon oxide polymer so as to seal the structure e.g. channel formed by removal of the sacrificial spacer material.

The invention of the electron microscope has facilitated advances in scientific endeavors ranging from materials science to chemistry to biology to medicine. However the electron microscope may use a high vacuum environment and is not capable of imaging processes in real time in fluids such as water. When studying liquid borne processes the current electron imaging technology is restricted mostly to postmortem after the fact investigations of dry or frozen samples. This is a slow painstaking procedure without any guarantee that an image is captured at the right moment. Moreover the preparation of the sample for observation may alter it in a fundamental way. Also frozen images do not provide information on process dynamics. An ability to image dynamic processes in liquid media in real time and to interact with the processes is certain to provide a better understanding of many nanoscale phenomena such as 1 nanoscale particle interactions 2 colloidal crystals and formation of meta materials with unique properties 3 electrochemical deposition and etching 4 processes associated with charging and discharging of batteries 5 interfacial phenomena 6 biological interactions and 7 protein and nanoparticle migration on lipid membranes. Better understanding of the physics involved in these diverse phenomena will doubtlessly lead to new processes.

To enable real time imaging of dynamic nanoscale processes in liquid media disclosed is a nanofluidic platform for in situ Transmission Electron Microscope TEM and Scanning Transmission Electron Microscope STEM imaging of phenomena taking place in fluids. This platform is referred to herein as the nanoaquarium for the sake of convenience.

The nanoaquarium is a microfabricated hermetically sealed flow cell with a controllable height which can be as small as tens of nanometers or as big as a few micrometers sandwiched between two thin silicon nitride membranes . The flow cell is able to withstand the high vacuum environment of the electron microscope without any loss of liquid. The cell allows the concurrent flow of multiple streams. It is equipped with electrodes for actuation sensing and electro chemical studies and will include heaters and thermistors for temperature measurement and control. Devices are fabricated through microfabrication using batch processing technology to enable concurrent production of a large number of identical devices at a reasonable cost. It should be understood that the term fluid refers to liquids suspensions gases and combinations thereof.

Due to its thin liquid layer and membranes the nanoaquarium can be imaged with the relatively low voltage beam 

The ability of the nanoaquarium to operate with the SEM STEM makes it useful to a range of research groups equipped with SEM STEM and TEM. Since the SEM STEM has generous space adapting it for the nanoaquarium is effected via a relatively simple and inexpensive fixture that is readily fabricated by any lab.

An exemplary flow cell nanoaquarium of 100 nm height was sandwiched between two thin silicon nitride membranes . Since the fabrication technique relies on direct wafer bonding one can produce perfectly sealed flow cells with cell heights smaller than had been achieved before. It was demonstrated that the devices facilitate in situ real time imaging of the motion and interactions of nanoparticles . One can also monitor not shown the migration rotation and interactions of nanoparticles nanorods. Dynamics of the diffusion limited aggregation of 5 nm gold colloids were studied e.g. J. M. Grogan L. Rotkina and H. H. Bau In situ liquid cell electron microscopy of colloid aggregation and growth dynamics Phys. Rev. E vol. 83 no. 6 June 2011. depicts various characteristics of the process as obtained from the videos during the in situ electron imaging of the aggregation process. In addition electrochemical deposition and etching can be monitored in situ.

Described here are illustrative non limiting fabrication processes and features incorporated in the nanoaquarium as well as the sample holder. Both processes utilize batch silicon based micro nano fabrication techniques. In order to form a sealed chamber one process relies on direct wafer bonding and the other process relies on removal of a sacrificial layer in a lamellar structure. Hundreds or thousands of identical units can be fabricated in a single run. For example shows a wafer with multiple devices patterned on it.

Initial experiments were carried out with a SEM STEM. This is a scanning electron microscope equipped with a transmission mode detector. The SEM STEM has a generous amount of space allowing for the fabrication of a sample holder for the nanoaquarium. The SEM STEM sample holder seals the inlet and outlet of the nanoaquarium with O rings and is effective in preventing leakage into the high vacuum environment of the microscope chamber for the duration of an experiment up to several hours . The SEM STEM operates with relatively low acceleration voltage 30 kV and provides good resolution for experiments with relatively large 10 nm high contrast samples . The TEM STEM offers greater acceleration voltage 300 kV in some machines the space constraint is more stringent.

Provided here is an illustrative fabrication process for the nanoaquarium which is depicted in . Two mating wafers are used to construct the nanoaquarium. One of these wafers is referred to for convenience as the bottom wafer and the other as the top wafer. The fabrication process starts with prime grade double sided polished Si wafers with orientation. One may deposit stoichiometric silicon nitride 50 nm by low pressure chemical vapor deposition LPCVD on both sides of the bottom and top wafers.

One may deposit an adhesion layer and pattern electrodes gold or platinum and or heaters on the bottom wafer s topside by lift off technique. When desired the electrode pattern can be defined by the specific experiments to be conducted with the nanoaquarium. Next one may deposit silicon oxide by plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD on the bottom wafer s topside and polish the oxide coating with a chemical mechanical polisher so that its surface is flat and smooth. The thickness of the silicon oxide layer determines the height of the imaging chamber. The silicon oxide also insulates the metallic path from the fluid chamber of the nanoaquarium. One may de gas the silicon oxide by heating the wafer in a vacuum oven or nitrogen ambient at 300 C. 500 C. for several hours this is optional but can prevent outgassing from the silicon oxide during bond annealing which can cause separation of the bonded wafers.

Next one may pattern the silicon oxide layer on the top side of the bottom wafer using buffered oxide etch to define the imaging chambers conduits liquid storage chambers and pneumatic chambers and expose the electrodes at desired locations. The imaging chambers may optionally contain pillars which may connect the chambers floors to their ceilings. These connecting pillars prevent the thin silicon nitride membranes that may form the imaging chambers floors and ceilings from bowing. One may then pattern the nitride on the back side of the bottom wafer in a reactive ion etcher RIE to form the pattern for the observation window aligning the back side to the pattern that exists on the top side of the wafer.

Then one may clean thoroughly both the bottom patterned wafer and the top unpatterned wafer with wet chemistries that include piranha sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide and RCA1 ammonium hydroxide hydrogen peroxide and water . Next one may activate with plasma the surfaces to be bonded and then bond the bottom patterned wafer directly to the top unpatterned one. See . The bonded wafers are annealed at 250 C. for 1 3 hours.

Next one may pattern the nitride on the top side of the top blank wafer in a RIE so that the pattern for the observation windows on the top wafer is aligned with the pattern for the observation windows that already exists in the bottom patterned wafer. Using the patterned silicon nitride as a mask one may etch the bonded wafer stack in KOH to define the inlets outlets imaging windows and access to metal pads. Then one removes nitride that remains in the inlets and outlets and covering the electrode pads.

As an alternative to the wafer bonding based fabrication process one may use another fabrication technique that utilizes a sacrificial layer for micro nano channel formation. See Youngcheol Joo Kiet Dieu Chang Jin Kim Fabrication of monolithic microchannels for IC chip cooling Micro Electro Mechanical Systems 1995 MEMS 95 Proceedings. IEEE vol. no. pp. 362 29 Jan. 2 Feb. 1995. A Si wafer may be coated on both sides with a thin film 50 nm of silicon nitride or other suitable membrane material by LPCVD PECVD evaporation or other thin film deposition technique. If desired electrodes or optical waveguides can be deposited and patterned on the top side of the wafer. A sacrificial layer of a suitable material such as amorphous silicon silicon oxide or a polymer may be deposited to a thickness corresponding to the desired channel height e.g. 100 nm thick and patterned to define the nanochannel geometry. A conformal layer of another thin film 50 nm such as silicon nitride may be deposited on top of the wafer with the patterned sacrificial structure using an appropriate technique e.g. PECVD LPCVD evaporation . The backside silicon nitride may be patterned to define the viewing window and the exposed silicon is etched in KOH. The topmost silicon nitride may be patterned and etched in a RIE to provide access to the sacrificial layer e.g. amorphous silicon layer . The sacrificial layer may be etched using vapor phase etching e.g. xenon difluoride for silicon or hydrofluoric acid for silicon oxide to form the nanochannel. The access holes in the silicon nitride film may be plugged by depositing and patterning a layer of PECVD silicon oxide or another suitable film e.g. polymer .

The nanoaquarium may include on chip storage and pumping of various solutions and chemicals or that function may be performed by a secondary cassette that interfaces with the nanoaquarium as in . The nanoaquarium may include on chip storage and pumping of various solutions and chemicals. The storage chambers may contain constrictions at their downstream ends that may serve as passive valves. When filled by capillary forces the liquid may migrate until it reaches the constriction and then stop. The upstream ends of the storage conduits may be connected to air containing pneumatic chambers equipped with resistance heaters. A pneumatic heating chamber can be as described elsewhere herein on a base or holder as well as the chip. Such a configuration offers all of the benefits described herein. Upon heating the gas may expand and displace the storage conduit s liquid contents into the imaging chamber an exemplary such element is shown in and the assembly is shown in exemplary . This method allows one to minimize the volume of liquid needed for the experiments and most importantly avoid the need for hydraulic connections through the sample holder. This distinction addresses one of the major shortcomings of many commercial in situ liquid cells in which the liquid is supplied from the outside and comes in contact with the sample holder. Such an arrangement may be vulnerable to contamination corrosion short circuits when performing electrochemical and electrokinetic experiments and the possibility of relatively large amount of liquid entering the vacuum chamber should leakage occur. In contrast the disclosed design features fully enclosed reservoirs that are isolated from the sample holder. All connections to the sample holder may be electrical and the nanoaquarium plus holder can easily be tested before loading into the microscope. If desired the imaging chamber can also be equipped with electrodes to induce AC electroosmosis to stir the various flow streams.

It should be understood that the windows may be square in conformation although square windows are not required. A window may have a dimension e.g. length width in the range of from about 1 micrometer to about 100 micrometers or even about 200 micrometers. A window may be circular in cross section.

The TEM sample holder is another part of the instrumentation since it provides the means to control the experiment within the nanoaquarium. A TEM holder suitably has the same outer dimensions as a standard single tilt holder but can be modified to allow the sealing of the fluid inlets outlets chambers with plastic rubber gaskets and electrical connections to enable external control for in situ actuation. For electrochemical experiments and experiments involving field assisted nanoparticle assembly these connections allow control of the electrodes voltage or current. For experiments that include fluid motion the connections enable actuation of the pneumatic system described above. For experiments that include heating the electrical connections connect to the resistor heaters in the nanoaquarium.

In summary the present disclosure provides fluid cells having chambers with a height that can be in the range of tens to hundreds of nanometers. The thickness may be chosen to minimize scattering by the liquid while allowing the process of interest to be observed the optimal thickness will depend on the accelerating voltage and on materials and processes to be studied. The devices also provide a hermetic seal against the environment. The devices also include embedded electrodes and electrical connections between the nanoaquarium s interior and the sample holder. The devices may feature on board storage of fluids and integrated pumping utilizing lab on chip technology as well as the ability to interface or mix multiple flow streams in situ and initiate in situ reactions.

Further background is found in The Nanoaquarium A Platform for In situ Transmission Electron Microscopy in Liquid Media Vol. 19 No. 4 2010 In situ liquid cell electron microscopy of colloid aggregation and growth dynamics 83 061405 2011 and The nanoaquarium A nanofluidic platform for in situ transmission electron microscopy in liquid media 2011 the entireties of which references are incorporated herein by reference.

