---

title: Method and apparatus for generating a media compilation based on criteria based sampling
abstract: An approach is provided for initiating generation of a media compilation based on one or more sampling criteria. A sampling platform determines at least one subset of one or more media items captured of at least one event. The sampling platform also partitions the at least one subset of the one or more media items into one or more bins and generates at least one compilation of the at least one subset of the one or more items based, at least in part, on whether the one or more media items in the one or more bins at least substantially meet one or more sampling criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08880527&OS=08880527&RS=08880527
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 08880527
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20121031
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. Important differentiators in the industry are application and network services that offer entertainment e.g. media and location services. In particular media sharing services allow for distribution of content to other users of the media sharing service. Traditionally the content distributed on such media sharing services is uploaded by the one or more users via their capture devices e.g. digital camera or smartphone . Interesting transformations of the content can be utilized to improve user experience including transforming individual media segments as gathered for a common event into a single media compilation. Unfortunately the quality of the compilation is dependent on the type and quantity of content provided by the different users throughout the event.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for initiating generation of a media compilation based on one or more sampling criteria.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining at least one subset of one or more media items captured of at least one event. The method also comprises causing at least in part a partitioning of the at least one subset of the one or more media items into one or more bins based at least in part on one or more characteristic dimensions associated with one or more devices capturing the one or more media items the at least one event or a combination thereof. The method further comprises causing at least in part a generation of at least one compilation of the at least one subset of the one or more items based at least in part on whether the one or more media items in the one or more bins at least substantially meet one or more sampling criteria.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine at least one subset of one or more media items captured of at least one event. The apparatus is also causes at least in part a partitioning of the at least one subset of the one or more media items into one or more bins based at least in part on one or more characteristic dimensions associated with one or more devices capturing the one or more media items the at least one event or a combination thereof. The apparatus further causes at least in part a generation of at least one compilation of the at least one subset of the one or more items based at least in part on whether the one or more media items in the one or more bins at least substantially meet one or more sampling criteria.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine at least one subset of one or more media items captured of at least one event. The apparatus also causes at least in part a partitioning of the at least one subset of the one or more media items into one or more bins based at least in part on one or more characteristic dimensions associated with one or more devices capturing the one or more media items the at least one event or a combination thereof. The apparatus further causes at least in part a generation of at least one compilation of the at least one subset of the one or more items based at least in part on whether the one or more media items in the one or more bins at least substantially meet one or more sampling criteria.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining at least one subset of one or more media items captured of at least one event. The apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part a partitioning of the at least one subset of the one or more media items into one or more bins based at least in part on one or more characteristic dimensions associated with one or more devices capturing the one or more media items the at least one event or a combination thereof. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a generation of at least one compilation of the at least one subset of the one or more items based at least in part on whether the one or more media items in the one or more bins at least substantially meet one or more sampling criteria.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on including derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of the claims filed claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for initiating generation of a media compilation based on one or more sampling criteria are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As noted above an increasing number of devices services and applications are targeted at providing social services and distributing media captured by individual users. As such advances in mobile multimedia technology have given rise to an increase in user generated content. For example most mobile devices on the market today feature integrated cameras and or video recording sensors and accompanying applications for enabling on demand capture of media. Users can then readily share the content with others using one or more platforms e.g. via the Internet or other means.

Individual users commonly record media e.g. video audio images etc. at events of interest. The type of events to be recorded may include for example concerts festivals sports outings lectures etc. As the events commence the users employ their respective media capturing devices e.g. a mobile phone a camcorder a digital camera etc. to record the event from different angles perspectives or zoom factors. Consequently objects of different types featured during the event e.g. people vehicles a stage a sports field serve as the focal point of a given media segment at a given time of media capture. This variety of perspectives and instances of the event and or objects thereof make for a more in depth albeit disconnected media viewing experience. The collection of different media segments may be made available for viewing by respective users by uploading them to a media sharing site a social networking site or distribution via email or other communication means.

A more advantageous way to view such content would be to automatically enhance or customize media to generate a synthesized or machine generated compilation or transformation of the collection of gathered media segments. Under this scenario the captured media segments are uploaded e.g. via a stream or file transfer to a platform for generating the transformation. By way of example a transformation pertains to any means of arranging compiling and or editing a collection of individual media segments to formulate a continuous media segment e.g. a final video cut . The final continuous media segment is an amalgamation of the individual media segments each of which pertain to the same event for depicting various aspects features and moments over a duration of time. It is noted therefore that the synthesized compilation transformation is generated automatically or otherwise without need for user intervention.

Nonetheless many technical challenges are present in generating such a synthesized compilation. One challenge is that a large quantity of media items must be captured and uploaded to the media platform before the compilation can be generated. Resultantly there is a large response time latency for enabling generation of the final output as well as a large amount of content to be processed on the backend. Another challenge occurs when there are insufficient media items featuring different views and perspectives of the event. For example in the case of a concert the captured media items may include similar views of the concert for the same time frames. Still further it is difficult for the media platform to readily categorize the various media items into sub events i.e. individual songs of the concert for generating compilations representing different representations of the event.

To address these issues a system of introduces the capability to reduce the latency associated with the media compilation generation procedure. This includes for example signaling the media platform to generate a compilation for a given event based on only a subset of the captured media items. As such the subset of the media items may represent only a specific segment or portion of the event referred to herein as a sub event e.g. a specific song of a concert or further into a micro event e.g. a guitar riff or drum solo within the song .

Still further the system enables the media items to be sampled in various ways for determining a common set of characteristics of the respective media items. Media items of like characteristics may then be partitioned into bins with the various media items of a bin being further processed against one or more sampling criteria. The sampling criteria may include information for conveying a subjective and or qualitative value of the media items of a specific bin. When the sampling criteria is met to a predetermined threshold the media platform is triggered to generate a compilation based on the media items comprising the bin thus minimizing the amount of data required to be uploaded to the media platform and the amount of time required for generation of a compilation e.g. a response time .

In certain embodiments the system includes a sampling platform which operates in connection with the media platform for performing sampling and evaluating the captured media items based on the sampling criteria. In addition the sampling platform interacts with UE to facilitate the gathering of metadata or other information on behalf of or in conjunction with the media platform . The UE may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

The UE may be positioned at different locations relative to the location occurrence of the event for capturing media segments or for focusing upon one or more objects during an event . In certain embodiments the UEs serve as media capture devices for acquiring via sensors photos video clips audio clips etc. In addition the sensors may capture context information related to the event or objects thereof such as speed information temporal information zoom information orientation information and the like. The UEs may trigger execution of the sampling platform such as when an application for capturing media items is initiated. Under this scenario for example the application may be a video recording application or media playback application for facilitating media capture recording and playback of media items in connection with an event .

During media capture information for specifying the popularity or importance of a particular event sub event or object thereof may be determined. In addition the sampling platform may determine an importance or popularity of a given view of the event sub event or subject of the event. The determination may be made by the sampling platform based on the processing of context information captured by the sensors of the UE . For example a high quantity of media items having the same temporal information may indicate the popularity of the event for a specific moment in time. As another example a high quantity of media items having the same location information and orientation information may indicate the popularity or importance of a particular event view or subject of the event versus others views or subjects corresponding to different locations and or positions at a given time. In either case the sampling platform utilizes the popularity and importance information to determine a subset of the overall media items to be processed initially by the media platform for generating a compilation. This enables the sampling platform to restrict the set of all available media items to only those most relevant and or useful for generating a compilation. As will be discussed further the subset of media items may be further analyzed against sampling criteria for determining an extent to which the subset of media items satisfies one or more conditions for generation of a compilation.

It is noted the popularity or importance information may be appended to the respective captured media items as metadata by the sampling platform . Under this scenario the sampling platform generates the determination results and tags the corresponding media items accordingly. Alternatively the sampling platform generates a signal to the application for initiating the tagging during uploading of the media items to the sampling platform . Under this scenario the tagging is initiated by the sampling platform based on the analysis of prior media items received for the event such that the tagging occurs after x amount of seconds or number of samples are captured for the same event. While this implementation corresponds to automated tagging of the media items it is further noted that in certain instances the metadata may be specified directly by users of the UE . In this case the user may select one or more action buttons as rendered by the sampling platform via the interface of the application for specifying the popularity or importance of the current media item being captured.

In certain embodiments the sampling platform partitions the subset of media items into one or more bins based on sampling of the media items according to various approaches. By way of example the sampling methods may include a temporal sampling of the media items spatial sampling of the media items view sampling of the media items or a combination thereof. Under these approaches the sampled media items are categorized into respective bins for indicating a particular category or characteristic of the media items comprising the bin. As such binning of the subset of media items enables the plurality of media items captured for a particular event to be further organized and categorized into respective sub events and micro events. Of note the bins are based on a discretization of the media items as categorized per the various sampling approaches where the discretization corresponds to a time line representing the duration of the event relative to the earliest and latest timestamp of available media items.

By way of example a temporal sampling of media items may include the aligning of media items from the n sensor groups of respective UE into one or more non overlapping time intervals along the time line of the main event. The non overlapping time intervals represent distinct segments of time or moments comprising the event thus corresponding to one or more discrete bins into which media items or portions thereof may be classified. Under this scenario the n sensor groups may include the various sensors of the UE including camera s microphone s magnetic compass es accelerometer s global positioning sensor s gyroscope s etc. of respective UE that may be active during the event . These sensors may start and stop capturing media items of the event at their discretion or the sensor variances activities may be altered at different times throughout the event. Resultantly temporal sampling pertains to assigning of the time interval bins based on when respective media items are started and stopped.

For the purpose of illustration of this sampling approach presents a timeline of a scenario wherein the event starts at time tand ends at time t t t. Under this scenario it is assumed that the sensor groups e.g. sensors announce the capture of media items to the sampling platform at a time t t t. The sampling platform processes the media items as captured including the associated metadata at time tto determine if the media items satisfy one or more conditions for enabling generation of a media compilation. By way of example the conditions may include a count of the number of media items for respective discrete bins a predetermined threshold of popularity of an event or segments thereof a predetermined threshold of importance of a particular view and or subject of the event a level of affinity between various characteristic dimensions of the captured media items or a combination thereof. It is noted therefore that the conditions may be associated with quantitative and or qualitative measures e.g. sampling criteria for specifying a level of availability and or reliability of current media items for generation of a compilation.

Per the above mentioned processing scenario the sampling platform is able to determine at time t tthat a media compilation may be generated. Hence the conditions for generating a subjectively satisfactory compilation per the available media items are met. Under this scenario the sampling platform triggers execution of the media platform which generates the compilation at time t t e.g. compilation is available for user viewing . For the purpose of example if D t tis the processing delay required to produce the compilation at the media platform then time interval T t tis the response time for the first compilation. More enhanced compilations can then be generated subsequently by the media platform after time t.

It is noted that the compilation is generated based on only a subset of the overall media items thus enabling a limited faster response time. Resultantly the occurrence of tis advanced in such a manner that the overall quality of the compilation does not drop more than a threshold due to the non availability of all the potential media items for the event . Also due to discretization of the time line for the entire event the sampling platform may count the number of media items corresponding to each segment of the time line e.g. the number of media items or segments thereof corresponding to a particular temporal bin . As such it is possible to segment events into macro and micro events e.g. sub events for a discrete time by applying a probability function to the count of media items.

In certain embodiments spatial sampling pertains to the process of time alignment of media items from the n sensor groups e.g. sensors from spatial locations of interest. The locations of interest may be a subset of all the spatial locations available during the time of capture of the event. By way of example in the case of an event taking place within an arena spatial sampling may include classification of the UE into respective bins based on their location relative to the event in the arena. Hence the classification is dependent on the nature of the performance arena as well as on how the various UE are spread about the arena. The sampling platform may account for different event types and or arena types including a concert arena a track and field arena a race track arena or the like.

In one example of spatial sampling bins may be generated based on a partitioning of the audience area of the arena into different partitions such as a front left b front middle c front right e center left f center middle g center right h back left i back middle and j back right. As another example bins may be generated based on angular partitioning of the audience area of the arena. Under this scenario therefore a respective bin may be based on an angular partition starting from 0 degrees at one end of the major axis of the stage e.g. location of the event passing through the center of the performing stage e.g. 90 degrees and the audience area and increasing angularly to the right of the stage. In the case of an event stage setting surrounded by the audience the angular partitioning may correspond to a maximum of 359 degrees.

In certain embodiments view sampling of the media items may include the process of classifying the views of the event as captured via by the different UE . The views may pertain to the different perspectives angles focal points or vantage points of the event from the perspective of a viewer of the event e.g. per the audience and or specific objects in focus. By way of example in the case of a football event being recorded by different UE the views captured for the game will vary significantly depending on the interests of the spectators i.e. a focus on the cheerleaders versus a focus upon a favorite player. Hence one or more bins may be generated by the sampling platform for categorizing the different views over the duration of the event . It is noted that the views of a common focal point may vary based on the elevation orientation position and location of the UE at the time of capture as well as a magnification and or zoom level of a sensor 

It is noted for the above described sampling approaches that the bins to which media items may be classified represent one or more characteristic dimensions. The characteristic dimensions include a temporal dimension a spatial dimension and a view dimension in this example. It is contemplated in further embodiments that other characteristic dimensions may also be enabled based on other modes and approaches of sampling. In the case of the sampling approached described herein the three independent characteristic dimensions may be further processed by the sampling platform according to a three dimensional vector space. Under this scenario each characteristic dimension in the space denotes a specific sampling of a representative media item for the event .

In certain embodiments the sampling platform enables the sampled media items classified to respective bins to be further classified into a multi dimensional space. By way of example in the case of the three types of sampling this corresponds to a three dimensional space wherein the media items are represented as three dimensional polygons e.g. vectors . Each axis of the three dimensional space therefore corresponds to a characteristic dimension of a bin of media items namely time spatial location and view. As the number of media items related to the event increase the polygons can overlap or consume polygons of other captures to form larger polygons. Under this approach a media compilation can be generated as a walk within a polygon or a traversal within the multi dimensional space from one polygon to another polygon.

The traversal may represent a time sequenced organization of the polygons corresponding to an unfolding of the event with each block representing a space time view sample of a media item. As such a compilation may be generated by the media platform by traversing the blocks based on the criteria chosen. A byproduct of space time and view sampling allows generation of different compilations by following different routes in the multi dimensional space. Also the sub set of polygons corresponds to a sub set of captured media item used to generate the compilation with minimal loss of subjective quality of the compilation. As noted the minimal loss of quality is achieved by analyzing the polygon multi dimensional vectors against a predefined threshold of quantitative and or qualitative measures corresponding to the sampling criteria

It is noted that the above described sampling methods may be applied to the media items by the sampling platform to organize and schedule the items for upload to the media platform . The organizing and scheduling of the upload ensures creation of a compilation from a subset of the available media items resulting in minimal reduction in subjective quality of the compilation. Still further by sampling of the media items based on time space or views the overall quantity of media items and thus the amount of time required for generation of the compilation by the media platform is required. In the case where only one sampling method is used the reduction is smaller compared to use of multiple sampling methods simultaneously. It is noted for example that for a given temporal interval the resulting bin for that interval includes all of the captured media items regardless of the views and spatial representations of the event.

It is noted that the output generated by the sampling platform is conveyed to the media platform for supporting generation of a final media compilation. This may include for example conveyance of the output to the media applications of respective UE for use in capturing one or more media segments. By way of example per the above described operations the output rendered by the sampling platform may include 1 a categorized subset of the media items into one or more bins 2 metadata associated with the various subsets of media items for conveying sampling criteria and 3 a distribution of the one or more bins into multi dimension segments e.g. polygons for generation of one or more media compilations.

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network not shown a wireless network not shown a telephony network not shown or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

By way of example the UE sampling platform and media platform s communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application headers layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the UE and sampling platform interact according to a client server model. Per this model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server e.g. the platform is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates.

Similarly the term client e.g. the UE is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others.

It is noted that while shown as separate entities the sampling platform may be integrated within the media platform accordingly. Also the sampling platform may be implemented for direct execution by a client device. Under this scenario the client device operates as the server process per the client server model. Still further the sampling platform may be implemented according to a peer to peer network topology.

In one embodiment an authentication module authenticates users and user devices for interaction with the sampling platform . By way of example the authentication module receives a request from a UE to process context information associated with the UE during or in preparation for capture of an event . This request may be signaled by activation of an application such as a media capture application at the UE . The request may include for example passage of information for identifying the user of the UE or device information pertaining to the UE . Under this approach the authentication module may receive an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier for recognizing the requesting user and or UE . It is noted that user and or device data may be cross referenced against profile data maintained by the sampling platform for enabling validation of a given UE for interaction with the sampling platform .

In one embodiment the context information processing module processes context information gathered by the sensors of respective UE . The processing includes analyzing context information to determine the relative location time position etc. of UE for capturing media related to an event. By way of example the context information processing module can determine a location of a UE based on a triangulation system such as a GPS assisted GPS A GPS A GPS Cell of Origin wireless local area network triangulation or other location extrapolation technologies. In addition standard GPS and A GPS systems can use satellites to pinpoint the location e.g. longitude latitude and altitude of the UE . A Cell of Origin system can also be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped.

In addition the context information processing module can be utilized to determine a range between the UE and an object. The range detection can further be guided to determine how far an object centered by the UE is. By way of this approach the module can be used to detect that an event object is in view and whether the view includes one or more obstructions to an event . Still further the module can determine the direction of a UE i.e. horizontal directional data as obtained from a magnetometer sensor or angular offset or tilt as determined by a gyroscope sensor . Speed and or acceleration data may also be determined along with rotational rate information of the UE about a particular reference point corresponding to the UE or an event.

In one embodiment the context information processing module may operate in connection with the partitioning module to determine the popularity or importance of a particular event sub event or object thereof. In addition an importance or popularity of a given view of the event sub event or subject of the event may be determined. The determination is made based on the processing of the context information wherein the context information is used to determine a specific subset of the media items to process. By way of example when the partitioning module determines a high quantity of media items share the same temporal information the module determines that these media items pertain to a popular moment in time of the event. As another example a high quantity of media items having the same location information and orientation information may indicate the popularity or importance of a particular event view or subject of the event versus others views or subjects corresponding to different locations and or positions at a given time. Based on these determinations the partitioning module determines a subset of the overall media items to be processed initially by the media platform for generating a compilation.

The partitioning module further determines a partitioning of the one or more media items into one or more bins. The partitioning is performed based on sampling of the media items based on one or more characteristic dimensions i.e. temporal dimension spatial dimension or view dimension. By way of example the partitioning module performs the sampling based on a discretization of the media items as categorized per the various sampling approaches. The discretization corresponds to a time line representing the duration of the event relative to the earliest and latest timestamp of available media items. Once the samples are generated the bins comprising the media items are distributed into multi dimension classifications. As such the n dimensional classifications may be provided to the multimedia platform for enabling generation of a media compilation for a given moment in time. Alternatively a sequence of multi dimension segments representative of the event may be linked for generating a compilation of the event for a duration of time.

In one embodiment the criteria determination module operates in connection with the partitioning module to determine whether the media items are sufficient to fulfill one or more conditions for enabling generation of a media compilation. By way of example the conditions may include a count of the number of media items for respective discrete bins a predetermined threshold of popularity of an event or segments thereof a predetermined threshold of importance of a particular view and or subject of the event a level of affinity between various characteristic dimensions of the captured media items or a combination thereof. It is noted therefore that the conditions may be associated with quantitative and or qualitative measures e.g. sampling criteria for specifying a level of availability and or reliability of current media items for generation of a compilation. Once the conditions are met the criteria determination module initiates execution of the compilation initiation module which signals generation of the compilation based on the organization and or sequencing of the media items into the one or more bins.

In one embodiment the user interface module enables the generation of a user interface or one or more graphical user interface elements for conveying information to a user of UE . By way of example the user interface module generates the interface in response to application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the media application thus enabling the display of graphics primitives. This may include for example displaying of event type event information and event location data in response to current capturing of an image of an event.

In one embodiment a communication module enables formation of a session over a network between the sampling platform and the application . By way of example the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution. It is noted that the communication module may also enable the transmission of any output generated by the sampling platform to the media platform for use in generating a final media compilation. This includes output generated by the context information processing module .

The above presented modules and components of the sampling platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. For example although the sampling platform is depicted as a separate entity or as a platform or hosted solution in it is contemplated that it may be implemented for direct operation by respective UEs . As such the sampling platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the UE for interacting with the application and for capturing media per an event . Alternatively some of the executions of the above described components may be performed at the UE while others are performed offline or remotely per a client server interaction model between the UE and the platform .

At step the sampling platform determines at least one subset of one or more media items captured of at least one event. In step the platform causes at least in part a partitioning of the at least one subset of the one or more media items into one or more bins based at least in part on one or more characteristic dimensions associated with one or more devices capturing the one or more media items the at least one event or a combination thereof. It is noted that the one or more characteristic dimensions include at least in part a temporal dimension a spatial dimension a view dimension or a combination thereof. Also it is noted that the determining of the at least one subset the grouping of the at least one subset the generation of the at least one compilation or a combination thereof is performed as the at least one event is occurring as the at least one subset is uploaded to a server or a combination thereof

In another step the platform causes at least in part a generation of at least one compilation of the at least one subset of the one or more media items based at least in part on whether the one or more media items in the one or more bins at least substantially meet one or more sampling criteria. By way of example the sampling criteria may include at least in part a popularity of one or more segments of the at least one event an importance of one or more subjects in the at least one event an importance of one or more views of the event or a combination thereof.

In step of process the sampling platform determines the one or more bins based at least in part on a discretization of the one or more characteristic dimensions. Also in step the platform determines at least one count of the one or more media items respectively in the one or more bins. By way of example a count of the number of media items per discrete time interval bin is determined.

In another step the platform processes and or facilitates a processing of the at least one count using at least one probability function to determine the at least one sub event. As mentioned above the sub event may correspond to a macro or micro event thus specifying a segment or portion of an event over its duration. Per step the platform determines the at least one sub event based on the at least one count. By way of example the generation of the at least one compilation is based at least in part on the at least one sub event.

In another step of process the sampling platform determines metadata associated with the one or more media items. As noted previously the partitioning of the at least one subset is based at least in part on the metadata. Per step the platform causes at least in part a distribution of the one or more bins into a multi dimensional space. The multi dimensional space corresponds to a means of combined sampling of the media items across various characteristic dimensions. As such the one or more axes of the multi space respectively represent the one or more characteristic dimensions.

Per step the sampling platform determines and input for specifying a traversal within the multi dimensional space. The traversal corresponds to a walking along the timeline of the event from one multi dimensional sample to the next. Under this scenario the at least one compilation is generated based at least in part on the traversal.

In several media capture devices and record the concert from different vantage points and perspectives some of which intersect i.e. capture overlapping event objects. Under this scenario a user of a user device is positioned to capture media items from behind the stage area where the event is taking place. The location of the user corresponds to a spatial partitioning of the arena labeled as BL backstage left as shown in with corresponding angular partitioning from center stage of 4. As the event commences the user captures video segment D which includes various event objects pertaining to the event. In addition a production camera device is employed by a technician of the arena as shown in for recording and transmitting the concert as a live broadcast. Under this scenario the location of the production camera corresponds to a spatial partitioning of the arena labeled RS right stage per . The corresponding angular partitioning from center stage is represented by angle 1. In this case the technician captures video segment C which features various event objects including members of the audience e.g. as seated per stadium seating .

In device belonging to a first user seated towards the left side of the stage facing outward near the front of the arena e.g. per stadium seating records video segment B. Video segment B features an opera singer performing at a moment in time of the concert. Of note the location of the device corresponds to a spatial partitioning of the arena labeled as LAF left audience front in with corresponding angular partitioning from center stage of 3. Also shown in is device belonging to a second user seated towards the right side of the stage near the front of the arena e.g. per stadium seating . The device captures video segment A which features various event objects including a jazz pianist featured in the concert. The location of the device corresponds to a spatial partitioning of the arena labeled as RAF right audience front in with corresponding angular partitioning from center stage of 2.

Another device belonging to a third user seated towards the front of the stage near the middle of the arena e.g. per stadium seating also captures the event via their tablet device. The location of the device corresponds to a spatial partitioning of the arena labeled as FAF front audience front per with corresponding angular partitioning of 90 degrees relative to an axis about center stage . Under this scenario the 90 degree angular partitioning is due to the positioning of the device for capturing video front and center.

For this scenario each of the above devices and interact with the sampling platform for enabling the uploading of their respective video segments A D to the media platform . In addition the devices transmit context information to the sampling platform which is processed for determining location temporal angular position and orientation information pertaining to the devices and or the event objects captured by said devices.

Based on the uploaded media items and the context information the sampling platform is able to determine a subset of media items uploaded fulfill predefined sampling conditions. In this example the conditions include a count of the number of video segments that meet a predetermined threshold of popularity for the event. As shown in video segments A and D both include the pianist which for that moment in time represent the most popular media items or segments thereof. As another condition the pianist is also determined to be the most important view and or subject of the event . By reducing the total number of video segments A D to a subset of video segments A and D that meet the sampling criteria requirements the media platform is able to generate a compilation more readily.

The sampling platform also performs various means of sampling of the video segments A D to determine one or more characteristic dimensions of the capture devices and or the corresponding event . For example the partitioning of the arena into respective sections e.g. RAF RS BR as well as corresponding angular positions relative to center stage corresponds to a spatial sampling of the video segments A D. As noted the spatial sampling is the classification of the media items based on the relative locations of the devices and within the arena. As another example a view sampling of the video segments A D is corresponds to the determining of common focal points e.g. the pianist from the perspective of the device users. Hence per this sampling approach captures can be classified based on the subjects of interest in the main event itself based on the field of view of the users. For the purpose of illustration it is noted therefore that respective angular values 1 4 corresponding to axis from center stage may be readily translated into a perspective angle of the user from their location point to the event object subject of interest.

Also a temporal sampling is performed to determine a temporal characteristic for classification of the video segments A D or the subset A and B. depicts a chart which shows a discretization of the various sensor inputs as captured by the devices and e.g. for generating the video segments A D at discrete intervals of time. In this case the sensors of corresponding user devices and are depicted along the axis labeled Sensors while the time is shown along the axis labeled time. It is noted that a count of the number of sensor inputs corresponding to a given time frame may be determined for identifying which video segments A D or portions thereof satisfy the sampling criteria conditions accordingly i.e. to generate a subset of media items to initially process.

In a graph depicting a discrete sampling of the captures over a period of time is presented. Per graph the number of media items and or sensor inputs captured per the event are depicted along the axis labeled Number of Captures while the time is shown along the axis labeled time. By analyzing discrete segments of the time line for the entire event and counting the total number of all captures at each discrete time the sampling platform may identify sub events . The sub events may represent macro or micro level perspectives times of the event as derived by the platform through appropriate thresholding of the probability mass function of the captures. It is further noted that this discretization of the time line for the event may also enable the sampling platform to inform the media platform of the most relevant popular sampled moments of the event for generation of a compilation.

In the sampled media items are shown as classified across a multi dimensional matrix . The matrix is defined by characteristic dimensions of time spatial location and view location corresponding to axis X Y and Z respectively. Per the matrix the collections of media items as discretized into one or more bins are represented as three dimensional polygons . The polygons can overlap or consume polygons of other captures to form larger polygons. Under this approach the sampling platform enables the media platform to initiate generation of a compilation representing a traversal from polygon to to within the multi dimensional space. In this case the shaded polygons represent those multi dimensional samples that are chosen based on sampling criteria while the unshaded polygons represent a space time view of the media items. The sub set of polygons corresponds to a sub set of captured media items used to generate the compilation with minimal loss of subjective quality of the compilation. It is noted that the polygons may be dynamically traversed and streamed to one or more users thus enabling concurrent processing and presentment of a compilation.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to generate a media compilation based on one or more sampling criteria. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for generating a media compilation based on one or more sampling criteria. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for generating a media compilation based on one or more sampling criteria is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for generating a media compilation based on one or more sampling criteria to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to generate a media compilation based on one or more sampling criteria. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of generating a media compilation based on one or more sampling criteria. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to generate a media compilation based on one or more sampling criteria. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

