---

title: Carbon nanotube high temperature length sensor
abstract: A sensor assembly includes a carbon nanotube bundle and a controller. The carbon nanotube bundle is integrated into a host material and extends along a predetermined dimension of the host material. The controller is configured to control transmission of radio frequency energy through the carbon nanotube bundle to determine a round trip time between transmission and reception of the radio frequency energy at a proximal end of the carbon nanotube bundle responsive to reflection of the radio frequency energy at a distal end of the carbon nanotube bundle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09086263&OS=09086263&RS=09086263
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 09086263
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120829
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 581 178 filed on Dec. 29 2011 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support under contract number N00024 03 D 6606 awarded by Naval Sea Systems Command. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Example embodiments generally relate to length sensing devices and more particularly relate to a device that can be embedded into a material that is expected to recede through ablation erosion or other mechanisms that remove material and accurately measure the changing dimension s of the material while it recedes.

Dimensional measurements are very difficult to achieve where there are size limitations and or in certain environments that are either hostile or dynamic e.g. harsh . For example only certain equipment or measuring modes may be suitable for hostile environments that may otherwise damage or destroy equipment that is not extremely robust. Meanwhile in dynamic environments the changing conditions may require continuous repositioning of equipment or perturbation of the measuring environment. Obtaining such measurements in environments that are both hostile and dynamic can be even more difficult.

In some cases placing a sensor within a host material that is to be measured requires creating a hole or otherwise compromising a portion of the integrity of the host material. Thus providing mechanisms by which to measure dimensional changes in certain host materials may weaken these materials in undesirable ways or allow for leakage and or contamination. Similarly placing a sensor that is robust enough to withstand certain harsh environmental conditions proximate to materials to be measured may alter certain physical properties of the material or flow conditions proximate to the material. Small sized host materials or narrow tolerances may also further complicate insitu measurements.

Many conventional sensors also measure current variations that could be interrupted or disrupted completely if the sensor is moved or conditions around the sensor are drastically changed. Thus it should be appreciated that conventional sensors may have a difficult time providing accurate and useful measurements in numerous harsh environments.

Accordingly some example embodiments may enable the provision of a sensor device that may be useful in measuring dimensional changes in host material. In this regard some example embodiments may employ a carbon nanotube CNT bundle coupled to a radio frequency RF sensor where the CNT bundle can be embedded into homogeneous materials or wound into composite materials. As the host material ablates erodes recesses or otherwise changes shape the CNT bundle will also change length accordingly due to processes similar to those that changed the shape of the host material. The CNT bundle will therefore have a length that is changing directly proportional to changes in the dimensions of the host material and may reflect the changes accordingly.

In one example embodiment a sensor assembly is provided. The sensor assembly may include a carbon nanotube bundle and a controller containing a transmit receive head processing electronics and power source. The carbon nanotube bundle may be integrated into a host material to extend along a predetermined dimension of the host material. The controller may be configured to control transmission of transmit radio frequency energy through the carbon nanotube bundle to determine a round trip time between transmission and reception of the radio frequency energy at a proximal end of the carbon nanotube bundle responsive to reflection of the radio frequency energy at a distal end of the carbon nanotube bundle.

In another example embodiment a method of determining a dimensional measurement of a host material is provided. The method may include integrating a carbon nanotube bundle into the host material to extend along a predetermined dimension of the host material and providing transmission of radio frequency energy through the carbon nanotube bundle to determine a round trip time between transmission and reception of the radio frequency energy at a proximal end of the carbon nanotube bundle responsive to reflection of the radio frequency energy at a distal end of the carbon nanotube bundle.

In another example embodiment a component of an airfoil is provided. The component may include host material disposed to have at least one surface exposed to mechanisms causing surface recession and a carbon nanotube bundle integrated into the host material to extend along a predetermined dimension of the host material. The carbon nanotube bundle may be configured to enable transmission of radio frequency energy through the carbon nanotube bundle to determine a round trip time between transmission and reception of the radio frequency energy at a proximal end of the carbon nanotube bundle responsive to reflection of the radio frequency energy at a distal end of the carbon nanotube bundle. The distal end of the carbon nanotube bundle may be proximate to at least one surface exposed to ablation.

Some example embodiments now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all example embodiments are shown. Indeed the examples described and pictured herein should not be construed as being limiting as to the scope applicability or configuration of the present disclosure. Rather these example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout.

Some example embodiments may enable the provision of a temperature resistant sensor that may be placed into a host material and change its length proportional to changes in a measured dimension of the host material. By using CNT bundles a sensor may be provided by aligning a CNT bundle within the host material such that the CNT bundle extends in a direction relative to a dimension of the host material that is to be measured. In some cases the direction may be substantially perpendicular to the dimension that is to be measured. However in other cases the orientation need not be perpendicular nor does the CNT bundle need to extend in a straight line through the host material.

As the host material ablates erodes recesses or otherwise changes shape the end of the CNT bundle that was disposed in the portion of the host material that has changed shape will be removed by the same processes that removed the corresponding host material. The CNT bundle length will therefore decrease in proportion to the amount of host material removed. The sensor may employ an RF transmitter receiver to transmit RF energy along a length of the CNT bundle such that the RF energy is reflected back at the end of the CNT bundle where the shape change has occurred. By knowing the round trip time for the RF energy and the speed of the RF energy within the CNT bundle the length of the CNT bundle may be determined. The change in length of the CNT bundle may represent the change in the corresponding dimension of the host material.

In some embodiments the host material may be any material that encounters or may possibly encounter dimensional changes that are desirable for measurement. For example the host material may be a homogeneous material or a composite material that is exposed to relatively harsh and or dynamic environments. In particular example embodiments may be useful in connection with very high temperature environments or environments that are highly erosive or consumptive where the dimensions of the host material may be expected to change in response to exposure of the host material to the environment. For example the host material may be a portion of a high speed body aeroshell rocket motor propellant rocket motor nozzle surfaces interior furnace surfaces space heat shield structures nuclear reactor fuel rods nuclear reactor control rods turbine jet blades ram jet components and or the like. In some cases host material of airfoil components may be monitored using the sensor assembly to measure shape changes in the host material. By measuring changes in the shapes of such components a better understanding may be gained of how such components react to certain environments or change under certain corresponding conditions. As such it may be appreciated that example embodiments may be employed on test bodies to determine characteristics of materials that will be used in non test conditions later on. However some embodiments may also be employed on non test equipment that is actually in use. Accordingly for example some embodiments may provide data from the sensor assembly that can be gathered during real time operation of equipment. Moreover in some embodiments the real time data may be used for control of the equipment being monitored.

Regardless of the circumstances under which example embodiments are employed the sensor assembly may be utilized to provide information regarding host material characteristics e.g. dimensional measurements during operation in harsh environments. When used in connection with components in any of the above listed or other harsh environments the host material may have an initial shape as indicated by solid profile line . After exposure of the host material e.g. due to high temperature and or high flow conditions the host material may be eroded recessed ablated or otherwise have its shape changed to the eroded shape indicated by dashed profile line of . The difference between the solid profile line and the dashed profile line of may indicate how much removed material has been ablated eroded recessed etc. from the host material due to the effects of the high temperature high flow conditions or other unfavorable conditions that cause shape change.

Of note the term initial may represent a first or earlier time of measurement relative to some second or later time and does not necessarily need to reflect a time of or prior to first exposure of the host material to a harsh environment. Similarly the term eroded may represent a second or later time of measurement and need not refer to a final condition of the host material after some amount of exposure. Thus as used herein the terms initial and eroded should be understood to correspond to earlier and later measurements e.g. measurement at a first time and at a second time during before or after exposure respectively. It should also be noted that the specific shapes shown in are merely example shapes and are not to be considered limiting in any way. Example embodiments may be employed in connection with components materials surfaces and or the like that have any number of different shapes.

The CNT bundle may have an initial length indicated by arrow . The length may be measured from a proximal end of the CNT bundle which may be disposed farthest away from an exposed surface of the host material as represented by the eroded shape or initial shape dependent upon time to a distal end of the CNT bundle which may be disposed at the exposed surface of the host material . In an example embodiment the proximal end of the CNT bundle may also be closest to the transmit receive module . Although the CNT bundle is shown to extend relatively straight and nearly normal to the surface of the host material it should be appreciated that the CNT bundle may be deposited within the host material in a way that provides for a curved path through the host material and or extension away from the exposed surface of the host material at any angle.

The CNT bundle may be made of carbon nanotubes CNTs that are allotropes of carbon formed into cylindrical nanostructures. The CNTs may have a hollow structure and may be single walled or multi walled structures that have extremely high length to diameter ratios. The CNT bundle may be embedded within the host material may be wound into the host material or otherwise incorporated into the host material. Thus for example the CNT bundle may not form any noticeable hole within the host material such that leak by could occur at an interface between the host material and the CNT bundle . Instead the CNT bundle may essentially be integrally formed within the host material . The CNT bundle may therefore act as a waveguide for transmission of RF energy within the host material from the proximal end to the distal end thereof and back to the proximal end. The round trip travel time may be indicative of CNT bundle length.

As heat or flow ablates erodes recesses or otherwise changes the shape of the host material over time the host material may change its shape from that represented by the initial shape of solid line profile to the eroded shape of the dashed line profile . The same processes that change the dimensions of the host material may also remove the portions of the CNT bundle that are within the removed material of the host material such that the CNT bundle may recede in its length to the eroded length indicated by arrow . The difference in length between arrow and arrow may be directly proportional to the change in dimension of the host material responsive to erosion of the removed material. In some embodiments the CNT bundle may be extended substantially perpendicular to the surface of the host material that is to have its corresponding dimensional characteristic measured in order to provide a more direct correlation between the difference in CNT bundle length and the dimensional change of the host material. However the CNT bundle does not necessarily need to extend substantially perpendicular to the surface of the host material .

The distal end of the CNT bundle may be cauterized worn away or otherwise ablated to substantially match a location of the exposed surface of the host material that remains after exposure to heat flow and or other erosive forces. Thus the distal end of the CNT bundle may represent an impedance discontinuity that may reflect RF energy transmitted by the transmit receive module at the proximal end of the CNT bundle . The data processor may be configured to measure or otherwise receive information indicative of a time difference between transmitting and receiving the RF energy by the data processor . The time difference may be indicative of the length of the CNT bundle e.g. based on knowledge of the speed of the RF energy in the medium of the CNT bundle . By comparing the time differences and therefore also the corresponding lengths at two different times the data processor may determine directly or indirectly an amount of change in length of the CNT bundle . In other words the data processor may be configured to determine the difference in length between arrow and arrow . As such for example the data processor may be configured to calculate store transmit and or display the length change that has occurred between the initial shape and the eroded shape of the host material .

The processing circuitry may be configured to perform data processing control function execution and or other processing and management services according to an example embodiment of the present invention. In some embodiments the processing circuitry may be embodied as a chip or chip set. In other words the processing circuitry may comprise one or more physical packages e.g. chips including materials components and or wires on a structural assembly e.g. a baseboard . The processing circuitry may be located on board the vehicle component or material being monitored or may be remotely located.

In an example embodiment the processing circuitry may include one or more instances of a processor and memory that may be in communication with or otherwise control a device interface and in some cases a user interface . As such the processing circuitry may be embodied as a circuit chip e.g. an integrated circuit chip configured e.g. with hardware software or a combination of hardware and software to perform operations described herein.

The user interface if implemented may be in communication with the processing circuitry to receive an indication of a user input at the user interface and or to provide an audible visual mechanical or other output to the user. As such the user interface may include for example a display one or more buttons or keys e.g. function buttons and or other input output mechanisms e.g. keyboard microphone speakers cursor joystick lights and or the like . The user interface which may be remotely located may be used by an operator to insert a signal to initiate a measurement e.g. by signaling the transmit receive module to transmit down the CNT tube . The user interface may also or alternatively display indications related to measurements previously made e.g. CNT bundle length or material dimension indications or indications regarding changes in CNT bundle length or material dimension .

The device interface may include one or more interface mechanisms for enabling communication with other devices. In some cases the device interface may be any means such as a device or circuitry embodied in either hardware or a combination of hardware and software that is configured to receive and or transmit data from to devices in communication with the processing circuitry e.g. the transmit receive module . In some cases the device interface may be used to transmit locally gathered data either raw or processed to remote locations for processing storage display analysis and or the like. Additionally or alternatively the device interface may enable the processing circuitry to interface with control systems of the component with which the host material is associated. For example the device interface may enable sensor assembly data to be provided to flight control systems of an operating missile space craft and or the like.

In an exemplary embodiment the memory may include one or more non transitory memory devices such as for example volatile and or non volatile memory that may be either fixed or removable. The memory may be configured to store information data applications instructions or the like for enabling the data processor to carry out various functions in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention. For example the memory could be configured to buffer input data for processing by the processor . Additionally or alternatively the memory could be configured to store instructions for execution by the processor . For example the memory may store instructions regarding timing and or event triggers for initiating length measurements via the transmit receive module . As yet another alternative the memory may include one or more databases that may store a variety of data sets indicative of measured CNT bundle lengths or material dimensions associated with corresponding different times. Current lengths and or dimensions trends in length and or dimension changes and or the like may therefore be reported and or analyzed. Among the contents of the memory applications may be stored for execution by the processor in order to carry out the functionality associated with each respective application. In some cases the applications may include directions for control of the transmit receive module to achieve acquisition of desired data.

The processor may be embodied in a number of different ways. For example the processor may be embodied as various processing means such as one or more of a microprocessor or other processing element a coprocessor a controller or various other computing or processing devices including integrated circuits such as for example an ASIC application specific integrated circuit an FPGA field programmable gate array or the like. In an example embodiment the processor may be configured to execute instructions stored in the memory or otherwise accessible to the processor . As such whether configured by hardware or by a combination of hardware and software the processor may represent an entity e.g. physically embodied in circuitry in the form of processing circuitry capable of performing operations according to embodiments of the present invention while configured accordingly. Thus for example when the processor is embodied as an ASIC FPGA or the like the processor may be specifically configured hardware for conducting the operations described herein. Alternatively as another example when the processor is embodied as an executor of software instructions the instructions may specifically configure the processor to perform the operations described herein.

In an example embodiment the processor or the processing circuitry may be embodied as include or otherwise control the data processor . As such in some embodiments the processor or the processing circuitry may be said to cause each of the operations described in connection with the data processor by directing the data processor to undertake the corresponding functionalities responsive to execution of instructions or algorithms configuring the processor or processing circuitry accordingly.

The CNT bundle is temperature resistant and also a conductor of RF energy with known properties. However since the CNT bundle erodes at its distal end along with the removed material while also remaining intact at all other portions of the CNT bundle even in harsh environments e.g. in excess of 4000 F. the CNT bundle essentially provides a time variable indicator of a dimensional measurement of the host material along the direction of extension of the CNT bundle . Thus the CNT bundle may be useful in connection with providing a sensor assembly that is capable of providing dimensional measurements in very high temperature environments. Moreover the small size of the CNT bundle may enable the sensor assembly to provide insitu measurements without environmental perturbation or leak by that could allow contamination or article destruction to occur. Measurements associated with consumption of rocket propellants during propellant burn or other extremely harsh environment measurements may therefore be conducted without any significant alteration of the material properties of the host material . Thus for example the thermal resistance strength structural integrity and other properties of the host material may be relatively unchanged.

Accordingly some example embodiments may be provided to measure ablation or erosion in harsh or challenging environments such as for example in aviation aerospace nuclear or other applications. For example some embodiments may be used in connection with relatively lightweight and inexpensive sensors that may measure wear on components such as brake pads rotors bearings gears or other such surfaces or components in vehicles of various types. A plurality of sensor assemblies may be operated by one or more corresponding data processors and or one or more corresponding transmit receive modules. Multiple sensor assemblies may be positioned in different locations within a single component or within different locations of a system by being placed in various different components to facilitate real time monitoring of the components during live operational scenarios. Accordingly wear characteristics at various different locations of a single component or of components within a system may be measured and analyzed. Different wear characteristics associated with corresponding different stages of activity e.g. flight stages or locations within a system may therefore be appreciated and studied.

Some example embodiments may also be used in connection with the identification of stress fracture locations or other fractures in certain structures. For example fiber optics with Bragg cells optical time domain reflectometers and or the like may be formed as a host material including CNT bundles similar to the example described above. In such cases if a fracture occurs along a dimension of the host material the CNT bundle may be used to identify the occurrence of the event and even isolate a location of the fracture. Similarly CNT bundles of example embodiments may be provided within propeller blades turbine blades windmill blades bridge span components and or the like in order to identify the existence and perhaps also the location of stress fractures. For example if the CNT bundle extends over the length of a bridge component e.g. a girder and an internal fracture is experienced for any reason the CNT bundle may be expected to fracture at the same location of the internal fracture and therefore present an open end to reflect RF energy back at the open end. The time difference between normal conditions and the fractured condition may indicate the length along the component where the fracture has occurred.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe exemplary embodiments in the context of certain exemplary combinations of elements and or functions it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard for example different combinations of elements and or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. In cases where advantages benefits or solutions to problems are described herein it should be appreciated that such advantages benefits and or solutions may be applicable to some example embodiments but not necessarily all example embodiments. Thus any advantages benefits or solutions described herein should not be thought of as being critical required or essential to all embodiments or to that which is claimed herein. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

