---

title: Dilute group III-V nitride intermediate band solar cells with contact blocking layers
abstract: An intermediate band solar cell (IBSC) is provided including a p-n junction based on dilute III-V nitride materials and a pair of contact blocking layers positioned on opposite surfaces of the p-n junction for electrically isolating the intermediate band of the p-n junction by blocking the charge transport in the intermediate band without affecting the electron and hole collection efficiency of the p-n junction, thereby increasing open circuit voltage (V) of the IBSC and increasing the photocurrent by utilizing the intermediate band to absorb photons with energy below the band gap of the absorber layers of the IBSC. Hence, the overall power conversion efficiency of a IBSC will be much higher than an conventional single junction solar cell. The p-n junction absorber layers of the IBSC may further have compositionally graded nitrogen concentrations to provide an electric field for more efficient charge collection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08962992&OS=08962992&RS=08962992
owner: RoseStreet Labs Energy, Inc.
number: 08962992
owner_city: Phoenix
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120621
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 558 446 filed on Sep. 11 2009 entitled Dilute Group III V Nitride Intermediate Band Solar Cells With Contact Blocking Layers now U.S. Pat. No. 8 232 470 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention described and claimed herein was made in part utilizing funds supplied by the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE AC02 05CH11231. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The disclosure relates to solar cells and more particularly to dilute Group III V nitride intermediate band solar cells with contact blocking layers to be used for improved solar cell performance.

Solar or photovoltaic cells are semiconductor devices having P N junctions which directly convert radiant energy of sunlight into electrical energy. Conversion of sunlight into electrical energy involves three major processes absorption of sunlight into the semiconductor material generation and separation of positive and negative charges creating a voltage in the solar cell and collection and transfer of the electrical charges through terminals connected to the semiconductor material. A single depletion region for charge separation typically exists in the P N junction of each solar cell.

Current traditional solar cells based on single semiconductor material have an intrinsic efficiency limit of approximately 31 . A primary reason for this limit is that a semiconductor has a specific energy gap that can only absorb a certain fraction of the solar spectrum with photon energies ranging from 0.4 to 4 eV. Light with energy below the bandgap of the semiconductor will not be absorbed and converted to electrical power. Light with energy above the bandgap will be absorbed but electron hole pairs that are created quickly lose their excess energy above the bandgap in the form of heat. Thus this energy is not available for conversion to electrical power.

In accordance with one or more embodiments the dilute III V nitride p n junction materials for the IBSC comprise layers of GaNAs and the contact blocking layers are lattice matched to a desired band gap of the GaNAs layers. In one or more embodiments the contact blocking layers comprise at least one of AlGaAs or other III V ternary alloys. In one or more embodiments the composition of the AlGaAs contact blocking layer is tuned so that its conduction band is aligned with the upper sub band of the GaNAs absorber layers. By isolating the IBand of the GaNAs absorber layers in this manner and effectively blocking the intermediate band from contact with neighboring layers the IBand only acts as a stepping stone for the absorption of the lower energy photons and hence increases the short circuit current ISC of the device. The open circuit voltage VOC of a IBSC is determined by the largest gap of the GaNAs. In one or more embodiments the p n junction absorber layers of the IBSC may further have compositionally graded nitrogen concentrations to provide an electric field for more efficient charge collection.

The disclosure relates to solar cells and more particularly to dilute Group III V nitride intermediate band solar cells with contact blocking layers to be used for improved solar cell performance.

In accordance with one or more embodiments an intermediate band IBand solar cell IBSC is provided comprising at least one p n junction based on dilute III V nitride materials and a pair of contact blocking layers positioned on opposite surfaces of the p n junction. The contact blocking layers provide electrical isolation of the intermediate band of the p n junction by blocking the charge transport in the IBand of the p n junction without affecting the electron and hole collection efficiency of the p n junction. In one or more embodiments the IBSC is formed on a substrate or as a solar cell within a larger multi junction tandem cell.

In accordance with one or more embodiments the dilute III V nitride p n junction materials for the IBSC comprise layers of GaNAs and the contact blocking layers are lattice matched to a desired band gap of the GaNAs layers. In one or more embodiments the contact blocking layers comprise at least one of AlGaAs or other III V ternary alloys. In one or more embodiments the composition of the AlGaAs contact blocking layer is tuned so that its conduction band is align with the upper sub band of the GaNAs absorber layers. By isolating the IBand of the GaNAs absorber layers in this manner and effectively blocking the intermediate band from contact with neighboring layers the IBand only acts as a stepping stone for the absorption of the lower energy photons and hence increases the short circuit current I of the device. The open circuit voltage V of a IBSC is determined by the largest gap of the GaNAs. In one or more embodiments the p n junction absorber layers of the IBSC may further have compositionally graded nitrogen concentrations to provide an electric field for more efficient charge collection.

Many other features and embodiments of the present invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the following detailed description.

In general the present disclosure is directed to a photovoltaic device solar cell or intermediate band solar cell IBSC having improved solar power conversion efficiency through the use of a single semiconductor with multiple band gaps. In a semiconductor including such an intermediate band an additional one or more bands in the band gap of a wide gap semiconductor serve as stepping stones to transfer electrons from the valence to the conduction band with two or more photons of energy smaller than the band gap. This IBSC concept requires only a single p n junction but the intermediate bands have to be electrically isolated from charge collecting contacts. Theoretical modeling predicts power conversion efficiency of 63 for a device with one and 72 for a device with two intermediate bands.

More particularly the present disclosure is directed to dilute Group III V nitride intermediate band solar cells IBSCs having contact blocking layers providing improved solar cell performance. The substitution of small amount of nitrogen in a III V semiconductor alloy such as GaAs InGaAs or GaAsP splits the conduction band of the alloy into a higher conduction band E and a lower subband or the intermediate band IBand . By utilizing a photovoltaic device solar cell or IBSC including dilute Group III V nitride layers and also contact blocking layers the IBSC of the present disclosure is able to maximize solar cell performance increase voltage and current within an IBSC and also prevent electrons and holes from escaping the layers through conduction in the IBand of an IBSC. Certain embodiments of the present disclosure will now be discussed with reference to the aforementioned figures wherein like reference numerals refer to like components.

By utilizing an IBSC a single P N junction may be employed thereby lowering production costs by considerably simplifying the solar cell design over more complex multijunction solar cells. Further the IBSC will achieve greater power conversion efficiencies over conventional single P N junction solar cells by fabricating the IBSC using materials that optimize three or more energy bands in order. Conventionally finding a multiband semiconductor absorber layer and electrically isolating the IBand in the absorber layer has been a challenge. IBSC test devices using InAs quantum dots QD miniband concept and dilute III V nitride result in low open circuit voltage V readings e.g. 0.3 0.4 eV. These lower Vreadings occurred for conventional IBSCs either because of non ideal band separation as in the InAs QD concept or because electrons and holes continuously leave the layers of an IBSC through conduction in the IBand due to the lack of electrical isolation of the IBand in the absorber layer in the IBSC with the neighboring layers. The present inventors have solved these electrical isolation issues surrounding IBSCs using the concept of band anti crossing in highly mismatched alloys HMAs which enables the usage of II VI and III V semiconductor alloys that have a multiband structure appropriate for IBSC applications.

Referring now to a block diagram illustration of an intermediate band solar cell IBSC is shown generally in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. IBSC includes a bottom substrate layer formed of any substrate material commonly used in solar cells. For example substrate layer may comprise Germanium Ge or Gallium Arsenide GaAs and substrate layer may comprise an n type or p type material as desired for a particular application.

IBSC includes two layers and of dilute III V nitride materials that comprise a single P N junction for IBSC having multiple energy bands wherein n type material is formed on one side of the P N junction and p type material is formed on the other side of the P N junction. In one or more embodiments P N junction layers and comprise respective layers of GaNAs. In the particular embodiment illustrated in layer is formed as n GaNAs and layer is formed as p GaNAs while it is understood that the order of these p type and n type layers could be reversed for different applications e.g. see . GaNAs P N junction layers and may also be referred to herein as GaNAs absorber layers and . In one or more embodiments the nitrogen concentration within the GaNAs absorber layers and ranges from 0.5 5 . Other III V nitrides that have similar multiband properties as GaNAs can also be used as IBand absorbers such as but not limited to AlGaNAs and GaNAsP.

In one or more embodiments Indium In may be added to at least one of the layers and so as to form a GaInNAs layer or GaInNAs layer in order to improve the lattice matching parameters of the material which improves the overall quality of the material and reduces material based defects that could occur from routine usage and testing that could otherwise harm the efficiency of the IBSC . In one or more embodiments the proportion of Nitrogen N to Indium In in layers and is selected to have a 1 3 ratio in order to yield optimal results and to compensate for the Nitrogen induced contraction of the lattice parameter caused by the presence of Nitrogen in a compound.

In one or more embodiments a pair of contact blocking layers and are positioned on opposite surfaces of the P N junction in IBSC such that a first contact blocking layer is formed on substrate layer adjacent to n GaNAs layer and a second contact blocking layer is formed on p GaNAs layer . While a pair of contact blocking layers and are illustrated in it is further understood that IBSC may be formed in some embodiments with only one of the contact blocking layers and formed adjacent to the n type of the layers and . Thus at least one contact blocking layer i.e. or is formed adjacent to the n type of the layers and while in some embodiments another contact blocking layer i.e. or may further be formed adjacent to the p type of the layers and . Contact blocking layers and may be formed of any material that provides electrical isolation of the intermediate band of the GaNAs P N junction by blocking the charge transport in the intermediate band of the GaNAs P N junction between layers and without affecting the electron and hole collection efficiency of the GaNAs P N junction.

In one or more embodiments contact blocking layers and are lattice matched to a desired higher band gap of the GaNAs layers and . In one or more embodiments the contact blocking layers comprise at least one of AlGaAs materials. When holes and electrons are formed in the GaNAs P N junction layers and upon exposure to solar radiation it is desirable that the holes and electrons travel across the P N junction between layers and through the valence band and the higher conduction band respectively of the layers and to generate the resultant current in IBSC . The contact blocking layers and electrically isolate the IBand and block the passage of electrons into the adjacent layers of IBSC through the IBand. In one or more embodiments the composition of the GaNAs P N junction layers and and the AlGaAs contact blocking layers and are tuned to align the conduction band of the contact blocking layers and with the higher conduction band of the GaNAs P N junction layers and . By isolating the IBand of the GaNAs P N junction layers and in this manner and effectively blocking the IBand from contact with neighboring layers of IBSC increased open circuit voltage V dependent on the larger gap the absorber layer is achieved. The photocurrent can be further increased by utilizing the isolated IBand to absorb photons with energy below the band gap of the GaNAs P N junction layers and .

In one or more embodiments as illustrated in an AlGaAs blocking layer is formed on a GaAs substrate layer . An n type GaNAs layer is formed on the n AlGaAs blocking layer where the n AlGaAs blocking layer is lattice matched with its adjacent layers in order to maximize the overall quality of the material used which in turn minimizes any material based defects that occur from routine usage or testing that would otherwise harm efficiency of the IBSC . A p type GaNAs layer is formed on the n type GaNAs layer . A pGaAs layer is formed on the p AlGaAs layer in order to protect the AlGaAs layer from oxidation. For either of the blocking layers and described in any of the embodiments an appropriate n type or p type layer of GaInP or any other layer of material known to those skilled in the art exhibiting similar blocking characteristics may be interchangeably utilized in place of AlGaAs.

In IBSC of the bottom blocking layer lets electrons through the higher conduction band but blocks holes while the top blocking layer lets holes through but blocks electrons from either the IBand or the conduction band. When released in response to exposure to solar radiation electrons wish to travel from the first P N junction layer through the first blocking layer to the bottom substrate layer so the first blocking layer facilitates this process. Likewise when released in response to solar radiation holes wish to travel from the second P N junction layer to the protective layer such that the top blocking layer facilitates this process. As will be further discussed in the graphical illustrations of the band diagrams in the blocking layers and enable the electrical isolation of the intermediate band of GaNAs absorber layers and which in turn maximizes the voltage and the current flow throughout the entire IBSC and hence optimizes the overall efficiency of the IBSC .

Referring now to a graphical illustration of the calculated band diagram for one specific embodiment of the IBSC of . In this representative example a 100 nm n AlGaAs blocking layer with 45 Al having an n doping 2 10cmis formed on an nGaAs substrate layer . A 400 nm n type GaNAs layer that is Te doped 2 10cmis formed on the n AlGaAs blocking layer and a 100 nm p type GaNAs layer that is Zn doped 1 10cmis formed on the n type GaNAs layer . Next a 50 nm pAlGaAs blocking layer is formed on the p type GaNAs layer . Finally a 20 nm thick pGaAs layer is formed on the pAlGaAs blocking layer to protect this layer from oxidation.

The calculated band diagram of illustrates plots for the conduction band E the intermediate band IBand and the valence band E . The x axis of the calculated band diagram represents the distance from the surface of the structure in in micron while the y axis represents an energy measurement reading in units of eV electron volts measured with respect to the Fermi energy level. The conduction band E represents the energy band with empty states for electron conduction to occur and the slope of the conduction band E can reveal the rate of electron flow or charge transport throughout the IBSC . Similarly the valence band E represents the energy band that is filled with electrons or with empty states for hole conduction and the slope of the valence band E can reveal the rate of hole flow or charge transport throughout the IBSC. As can be seen in the slope of both plots and show the electrons being repelled from the surface whereas holes are being drawn to the surface. The IBand plot represents the intermediate band formed as a result of the anticrossing interaction between the N states and the GaAs conduction band E . The IBand in is completely isolated in both sides and only acts as a stepping stone for the absorption of low energy photons.

Referring back to in one or more embodiments IBSC may be formed with the protective layer such as pGaAs or the like deposited on top of the contact blocking layer for providing a protective covering over the other layers and to prevent the second blocking layer from oxidizing especially if the second blocking layer is made from AlGaAs. Layer may also function as a low resistance contact. The protective layer may usually comprise n type or p type GaAs depending on the desired configuration of the various layers of IBSC for desired operation characteristics. In one or more embodiments the protective layer may optionally be deposited using known deposition techniques at a thinner thickness compared to the other layers of IBSC .

Referring now to a graphical illustration of the carrier concentration profiles of the IBSC of is shown in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. Carrier concentration profile graph of has an x axis describing the distance from the surface in m and carrier concentration on the y axis in units of cm . The carrier concentration profile graph illustrates a carrier concentration plot of electrons and a carrier concentration plot of holes . As can be seen from these plots of the concentration of holes is highest near the surface shown by activity in the holes plot where top blocking layer resides wherein top blocking layer lets holes through but blocks electrons. Then farther away from the surface both hole and electron concentration become very small in the p n junction depletion region extending from 0.1 to 0.18 m. Deeper on the n type side of the IBSC structure the concentration of holes is negligibly small and the plot represents the concentration of electrons. The intermediate band electrons in the thickness range 0.18 to 0.32 m in layer are electrically isolated from the back contact by the blocking layer . Only the electrons that are excited from the intermediate band to the upper band can be transferred to the substrate and collected by the back contact. Therefore the carrier concentration profile graph of shows that the blocking layers function properly and work effectively as blockers of electrons and holes which electrically isolates the IBand improving the current voltage and the overall power conversion efficiency of IBSC .

Referring now to a block diagram representation of a test device structure of an IBSC having metal contacts and and being exposed to sunlight is shown generally in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. IBSC includes a 90 nm n AlGaAs blocking layer is formed on an nGaAs substrate layer . A 400 nm n type GaNAs layer is formed on the n AlGaAs blocking layer and a 100 nm p type GaNAs layer is formed on the n type GaNAs layer . A 50 nm pAlGaAs blocking layer is formed on the GaNAs layer and finally a 20 nm p GaAs protective contact layer is formed on the AlGaAs blocking layer . An InZn bias contact is formed on the protective layer with an InSn ground contact being formed on a portion of the substrate layer . Bias contact serves as a contact for a voltage or voltage source and ground contact serves as a contact for a grounding voltage. Bias contact may comprise InZn Indium Zinc and ground contact may comprise InSn Indium Tin in this particular embodiments while it is understood that other ohmic contact metallizations to p type and n type GaAs providing similar desired characteristics could be utilized for any of the respective layers and components of IBSC .

Referring now to a graphical illustration of the current voltage I V characteristics measurements in the dark and under 1 and 10 sun illumination for the IBSC of is shown in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. I V characteristics plots of show a bias voltage in V for its x axis and a current density measured in mA cm as its y axis. Plot shows the I V characteristics of IBSC of upon exposure to 1 sun AM1.5 while plot shows the I V characteristics when IBSC is shielded from the sun i.e. dark . Similarly plot shows the I V characteristics of IBSC of upon exposure to 10 sun AM1.5 while plot shows the I V characteristics when IBSC is shielded from the sun i.e. dark . As can be clearly seen in when IBSC is exposed to sun for given voltage biases the current increases drastically thereby illustrating that the IBSC functions properly as it turns photons into electrons and current. The V the voltage at zero current under illumination for the 1 and 10 sun condition are 0.75 and 0.8 eV respectively. These values of Vare much higher than those for unblocked structures reported in the literature 0.3 0.4 eV .

Referring now to a graphical illustration of the External Quantum Efficiency EQE reading of the IBSC of is shown in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. EQE graph of illustrates the energy of the exciting monochromatic light in eV along its x axis and an photovoltaic response EQE in percentage along its y axis. EQE plot shows the effective blocking of the intermediate band by usage of the blocking layers discussed above. High EQE values are achieved only when the exciting light reaches the energy separation between the valence band and the higher conduction band of the GaNAs layer 2 eV.

In one or more embodiments the nitrogen concentration x in at least one or both of the GaNAs absorber layers of the P N junction of an IBSC can be compositionally graded in order to improve the performance of the IBSC as illustrated in . Either or both of the GaNAs layers and which correspond to GaNAs absorber layers and can be graded from a higher nitrogen concentration x of 0.02 in one portion of the GaNAs layer or to a lower nitrogen concentration of x 0.005 in another portion of the same GaNAs layer or . For example within the GaNAs layer the N concentration decreases from x 0.018 near the interface between GaNAs layers and to x 0.005 near the interface between GaNAs layer and blocking layer . In one or more embodiments the portions of the GaNAs layers and closest to their junction will have the highest concentration of nitrogen. By compositionally grading at least one of the GaNAs layers and an additional potential is created that drives electrons toward the n GaAs substrate thereby increasing cell current. Further the compositional grading of GaNAs layers and will provide a larger gap at their surfaces thereby likely forming a better hole conducting contact. These advantages associated with the compositional grading will further increase the solar power conversion efficiency of this type of solar cell.

Referring now to a graphical illustration of the calculated band diagram for the IBSC of is shown in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. The calculated band diagram of includes plots for the conduction band E the intermediate band IBand and energy of the valence band E . It can be seen from these band diagrams that the intermediate band is effectively isolated from the conduction band E of the substrate and the top contact layer. When comparing the band diagrams of the graded structure shown in with those of the non graded structure shown in it can be seen from the band diagrams of that the conduction band E and the valence band E of the graded structure have greater slopes in the absorber layer than the corresponding conduction band E and the valence band E of the non graded structure thereby showing the additional potential created in the graded structure that drives electrons away from the p n junction.

In accordance with one or more embodiments an intermediate band solar cell IBSC is provided that utilizes dilute Group III V nitride intermediate band materials and contact blocking layers in order to improve solar cell performance. Specifically overall advantages of the present disclosure include being able increase the open circuit voltage values increase the photocurrent generated by increased light absorption through the isolated IBand and hence ultimately being able to improve the overall power conversion efficiency and performance of a IBSC by effectively isolating the IBand using blocking layers. Furthermore because an IBSC is utilized only a single P N junction is required which along with contact blocking layers considerably simplifies cell design and thus significantly lowers production costs in comparison with multijunction designs.

While an intermediate band solar cell using grading compositions and contact blocking layers has been described in terms of what are presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it is to be understood that the present disclosure need not be limited to the above embodiments. It should also be understood that a variety of changes may be made without departing from the essence of the invention. For example materials other than those described in the various embodiments may be utilized for the various layers of the IBSC as long as they provide the desired characteristics achieved by the materials described in the various embodiments. Such changes are also implicitly included in the description and still fall within the scope of the present disclosure. It should be understood that this disclosure is intended to yield a patent covering numerous aspects of the invention both independently and as an overall system and in both method and apparatus modes.

Further each of the various elements of the invention and claims may also be achieved in a variety of manners. This disclosure should be understood to encompass each such variation be it a variation of an embodiment of any apparatus embodiment a method or process embodiment or even merely a variation of any element of these. Particularly it should be understood that the words for each element of the invention may be expressed by equivalent apparatus terms or method terms. Such equivalent broader or even more generic terms should be considered to be encompassed in the description of each element or action. Such terms can be substituted where desired to make explicit the implicitly broad coverage to which this invention is entitled.

It should be understood that all actions may be expressed as a means for taking that action or as an element which causes that action. Similarly each physical element disclosed should be understood to encompass a disclosure of the action which that physical element facilitates. The above is intended to cover various modifications and similar arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the below appended claims the scope of which should be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and similar structures and or method steps. Therefore the present invention includes any and all embodiments of the following below appended claims.

