---

title: Entry points to image-related applications in a mobile device
abstract: A method and apparatus is provided for operating a mobile device having stored thereon a plurality of applications (“apps”) that are each configured to capture an image. The method includes receiving first user input data requesting invocation of a given one of the applications. The given application is launched by the user. After launching the given application a user interface is presented which serves as an entry point through which ail of the image capture applications stored on the mobile device are made available to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09448813&OS=09448813&RS=09448813
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09448813
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120524
---
With the increasing popularity of mobile devices having image capture functionality including for instance cellphone devices handheld devices handheld computers e.g. tablets smartphones and PDAs there is a need for improving the user experience by allowing quick access to the multitude of image capture and image processing applications apps that a user may have downloaded or otherwise installed on their mobile devices.

For example specialized image capture applications exist which apply frames different filters and lenses and special effects to pictures. For instance some applications provide double exposure pictures panoramic pictures three dimensional 3D pictures or vintage style pictures.

Therefore there exists opportunities for improvement in technologies to allow mobile device users quick and convenient access to their image capture and image processing applications

Apparatus computer readable storage media and methods are disclosed for allowing mobile device users to easily access all of their image capture applications within the native image capture application with the click of a button. In one implementation an application launch button is provided which allows a user to launch an image capture application screen which lists all of the image capture applications that are available to the user on the mobile communication device. The application launch button may be made available in both native image capture applications applications provided by the original equipment manufacturer and additionally in third party applications. In this way the application launch button serves as an in context entry point to all available image capture applications allowing the end user to easily switch from one image capture application to another.

In one particular implementation the end user can access some or all of the image capture applications with the click of button even when the device is locked i.e. in an above locked state . However in some cases the image capture applications that are available even when the mobile device is locked may only provided limited functionality. That is some functions of the applications may be disabled when the mobile device is locked.

In another particular implementation the mobile device can display a simple image representation e.g. a JPEG or MP4 of an picture that was captured in a rich media format. Such rich media formats contain additional information which allows the image to be presented in any of a variety of formats such as a three dimensional format or a panoramic format for example. In addition the mobile device may present the simple representation to the user along with a link back to the image related application that acquired the image. In this way the user can quickly launch a rich media application both to capture and to view a complete rich media representation of the image.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

This disclosure is set forth in the context of representative embodiments that are not intended to be limiting in any way.

As used in this application and in the claims the singular forms a an and the include the plural forms unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Additionally the term includes means comprises. Further the term coupled encompasses mechanical electrical magnetic optical as well as other practical ways of coupling or linking items together and does not exclude the presence of intermediate elements between the coupled items.

The described things and methods described herein should not be construed as being limiting in any way. Instead this disclosure is directed toward ail novel and non obvious features and aspects of the various disclosed embodiments alone and in various combinations and sub combinations with one another. The disclosed systems methods and apparatus are not limited to any specific aspect or feature or combinations thereof nor do the disclosed things and methods require that any one or more specific advantages be present or problems be solved.

Although the operations of some of the disclosed methods are described in a particular sequential order for convenient presentation it should be understood that this manner of description encompasses rearrangement unless a particular ordering is required by specific language set forth below. For example operations described sequentially may in some cases be rearranged omitted or performed concurrently. Moreover for the sake of simplicity the attached figures may not show the various ways in which the disclosed things and methods can be used in conjunction with other things and methods. Additionally the description sometimes uses terms like produce generate select capture and provide to describe the disclosed methods. These terms are high level abstractions of the actual operations that are performed. The actual operations that correspond to these terms can vary depending on the particular implementation and are readily discernible by one of ordinary skill in the art.

Any of the disclosed methods can be implemented as computer executable instructions stored on one or more computer readable storage media e.g. non transitory computer readable media such as one or more volatile memory components such as DRAM or SRAM or nonvolatile memory components such as hard drives and executed on a computer e.g. any commercially available computer including smart phones or other mobile devices that include computing hardware . Any of the computer executable instructions for implementing the disclosed techniques as well as any data created and used during implementation of the disclosed embodiments can be stored on one or more computer readable storage media e.g. non transitory computer readable storage media . The computer executable instructions can be part of for example a dedicated software application or a software application that is accessed or downloaded via a web browser or other software application such as a remote computing application . Such software can be executed for example on a single local computer e.g. any suitable commercially available computer or in a network environment e.g. via the Internet a wide area network a local area network a client server network such as a cloud computing network or other such network using one or more network computers.

The disclosed method allow third party developers to access several services that augment the user experience and supply basic user interface and Application Programming Interface API capabilities to the developers allowing them to efficiently create applications that are compatible with the system. As used herein the term service refers to a utility function or program code module that performs some task for a calling process which has no user interface and which is accessed programmatically through a call interface such as an API.

For clarity only certain selected aspects of the software based implementations are described. Other details that are well known in the art are omitted. For example it should be understood that the disclosed technology is not limited to any specific computer language or program. For instance the disclosed technology can be implemented by software written in C Java Perl JavaScript HTML5 or any other suitable programming language. Likewise the disclosed technology is not limited to any particular computer or type of hardware. Certain details of suitable computers and hardware are well known and need not be set forth in detail in this disclosure.

Furthermore any of the software based embodiments comprising for example computer executable instructions for causing a computer to perform any of the disclosed methods can be uploaded downloaded or remotely accessed through a suitable communication means. Such suitable communication means include for example the Internet the World Wide Web an intranet software applications cable including fiber optic cable magnetic communications electromagnetic communications including RF microwave and infrared communications electronic communications or other such communication means.

Theories of operation scientific principles or other theoretical descriptions presented herein in reference to the apparatus or methods of this disclosure have been provided for the purposes of better understanding and are not intended to be limiting in scope. The apparatus and methods in the appended claims are not limited to those apparatus and methods that function in the manner described by such theories of operation.

In the following description certain terms may be used such as up down upper lower horizontal vertical left right over on near and the like. These terms are used where applicable to provide some clarity of description when dealing with relative relationships. But these terms are not intended to imply absolute relationships positions and or orientations.

As used in this disclosure above lock means that a device is in a state where at least some functions of the device are not accessible to a user as a result of the device being in the above lock or locked state. As used in this disclosure below lock means that a device is in a state where additional functionality is available that is not accessible to a user in the above lock state. In addition a device may be described as having other states that are not necessarily mutually exclusive with the above lock or below lock authentication states. For example in some embodiments a device can be in either a low power state or an active state while concurrently being in an above lock state. Similarly in some embodiments a device can be in a below lock state while concurrently being in a low power or active state.

Software applications sometimes referred to as apps in the market constitute a driver for the sale and popularity of mobile devices. The computing power and functionality of mobile devices are often used to download and use the applications available for download from various websites. Applications are generally executable programs that are downloaded and executed on the mobile device to perform various functions such as to provide sports news access to electronic mail email access to the Global Positioning System GPS playing video games playing music and video and the like.

As used herein the term image related application will be used to refer to an application that can capture an image and or process an image. That is both an image capture application and an image processing application may be referred to as an image related application. Moreover since video may be treated as a sequence of still images the terms image and video will often be used interchangeably with one another unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

As previously mentioned users now have access to many image capture applications and consequently often download several such image related applications for use in different circumstances. To gain access to these applications the user typically has to locate the application of interest among ail the other applications stored on the mobile device. Searching for a particular image related application that is mixed not only with other image related applications but also with other types of applications can make it difficult to find the image related application of interest. This process can become unwieldy and extend the time needed before the user can take a picture which can be inconvenient and even cause the user to miss capturing a desired image.

The disclosed technology relates to the accessibility of image related applications on a mobile device. Certain embodiments of the disclosed technology permit the end user to easily access all of their image related applications within the native image related application with the click of a button. Another exemplary approach allows the end user to access at least a subset of the image related applications with the click of button even when the device is locked.

While reference is made throughout this document to image capture apps or applications more generally the disclosed technology relates to any executable code segments that are capable of acquiring an image. For instance the image acquisition functionality may be implemented using a dynamic link library DLL that is hosted in another application.

The illustrated mobile device can include a controller or processor e.g. signal processor microprocessor ASIC or other control and processing logic circuitry for performing such tasks as signal coding data processing input output processing power control and or other functions. An operating system can control the allocation and usage of the components including power states above lock states and below lock states and provide support for one or more application programs . The application programs can include common mobile computing applications e.g. image related applications email applications calendars contact managers web browsers messaging applications or any other computing application.

The illustrated mobile device can include memory . Memory can include non removable memory and or removable memory . The non removable memory can include RAM ROM flash memory a hard disk or other well known memory storage technologies. The removable memory can include flash memory or a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card which is well known in GSM communication systems or other well known memory storage technologies such as smart cards. The memory can be used for storing data and or code for running the operating system and the application programs . Example data can include web pages text images sound files video data or other data sets to be sent to and or received from one or more network servers or other devices via one or more wired or wireless networks. The memory can be used to store a subscriber identifier such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI and an equipment identifier such as an International Mobile Equipment Identifier IMEI . Such identifiers can be transmitted to a network server to identify users and equipment.

The mobile device can support one or more input devices for responding to inputs from users and other sources. Such input devices may include a touch screen microphone camera physical keyboard trackball and or proximity sensor and one or more output devices such as a speaker and one or more displays . Other possible output devices not shown can include piezoelectric or haptic output devices. Some devices can serve more than one input output function. For example touch screen and display can be combined into a single input output device.

In some implementations the various input devices may support natural user interface NUI methods. Examples of NUI methods include those relying on speech recognition touch and stylus recognition gesture recognition both on screen and adjacent to the screen air gestures head and eye tracking voice and speech vision touch gestures and machine intelligence. Specific categories of NUI technologies on which Microsoft is working include touch sensitive displays voice and speech recognition intention and goal understanding motion gesture detection using depth cameras such as stereoscopic camera systems infrared camera systems rgb camera systems and combinations of these motion gesture detection using accelerometers gyroscopes facial recognition 3D displays head eye and gaze tracking immersive augmented reality and virtual reality systems all of which provide a more natural interface as well as technologies for sensing brain activity using electric field sensing electrodes EEG and related methods .

A wireless modem can be coupled to an antenna not shown and can support two way communications between the processor and external devices as is well understood in the art. The modem is shown generically and can include a cellular modem for communicating with the mobile communication network and or other radio based modems e.g. Bluetooth or Wi Fi . The wireless modem is typically configured for communication with one or more cellular networks such as a GSM network for data and voice communications within a single cellular network between cellular networks or between the mobile device and a public switched telephone network PSTN .

The mobile device can further include at least one input output port a power supply a satellite navigation system receiver such as a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an accelerometer a gyroscope not shown and or a physical connector which can be a USB port IEEE 1394 FireWire port and or RS 232 port. The illustrated components are not required or all inclusive as any components can be deleted and other components can be added.

The mobile device includes a microphone and speaker along with two proximity sensors and situated below the surface of the mobile device. In some examples a single or three or more proximity sensors can be used. Any suitable proximity sensor s can be employed. In some examples the proximity sensors and emit an infrared beam and receive a reflected infrared beam which is reflected off the surface of a nearby object that has been illuminated by the emitted infrared beam. An intensity measurement or other measured property for the received beam can be used to determine whether an object is in proximity with the mobile device .

In other examples an image sensor coupled with a camera lens can be used as a light sensor to detect an object in proximity with the mobile device . For example objects in proximity with the mobile device can be determined using light received through the camera lens with an image sensor based on CMOS CCD charge coupled device or other suitable technology. In some examples only a few rows columns or pixels of the image sensor are active when checking proximity in order to reduce power consumption.

The camera shutter button of the mobile device may be a dedicated dual action camera shutter button with the ability to defect half press and full press as distinct separate actions. As is readily understood to those of skill in the art a half press refers to the partial actuation of a button or other control while a full press refers to a further actuation of the button or control past a determined limit. In some examples the dual action camera shutter button is associated with the following attributes. When a half press is detected input data is received with the mobile device that is associated with auto focus functionality. When a full press is defected input data is received that is associated with camera invocation and image capture. In some examples the end user can set an option to determine whether or not input data resulting from a half press or full press of the camera button initiates functionality when e.g. the display is turned offer the device is in standby mode. While the camera shutter button is shown located on a front surface of the mobile device in other examples a camera shutter button can be positioned at alternate locations. For example the camera shutter button can be located at location on a side surface or location on a rear surface respectively of the mobile device.

Turning to the rear view shown in the example mobile device includes the camera lens and an electronic flash . In some examples there is no flash present in the mobile device . The individual components e.g. the hardware buttons and microphone speaker touch screen display camera lens and flash can be coupled to a mobile device chassis not shown which is connected to internal components of the mobile device for example one or more processors a piezoelectric actuator a power supply and a modem.

As shown in there are several considerations that can be made in the placement of components on the mobile device such as the home button power button camera shutter button the camera lens electronic flash proximity sensors and and the photodiode . For example it is desirable that the placement of the camera shutter button enables or even encourages a user to naturally position the mobile device in a landscape position when capturing images. It is also desirable that the camera shutter button be positioned such that operation of the button is facilitated using an index finger or thumb. For example the camera shutter button as shown can be easily accessed with a user s right thumb while capturing an image with the mobile device in a landscape position. In other examples the camera shutter button can be moved to other suitable positions for example locations or . It is also desirable that the camera shutter button and or power button be positioned to avoid accidental actuation in order to mitigate the chance that an image capture application will be launched inadvertently.

It should be noted that any reference herein to a button may refer to a physical or virtual button. Moreover more generally instead of a button any suitable user interface may be provided to receive user input data.

The mobile device also includes several hardware buttons including a camera shutter button located on a side surface of the mobile device as well as a search button a home button and a back button which are located on a front surface of the mobile device. These hardware buttons and can be used for invoking and or executing various operations using the mobile device . For example camera shutter button can be used for invoking and or executing an image capture application as well as controlling functions within the image capture application such as autofocusing and or operating a camera shutter. Search button can be used to invoke and or execute a user interface for searching data. Home button can be used for navigating software functionality on the mobile device by for example setting the mobile device to a home screen state or invoking other assigned functionality. Back button can be used for navigating software functionality by for example requesting a previously requested object that was viewed using the mobile device .

Application launch button is used to launch or otherwise execute an image related application screen which lists or otherwise presents all the image related applications that are available to the user on the mobile communication device. The end user may execute or launch the applications directly from the screen. These image related applications may include both native image related applications as well as third party image related applications. In this way application launch button serves as an in context entry point to all available image related applications allowing the end user to easily switch from one image related application to another. For an application to be included in this presentation of image related applications developers may be required to include in their image related applications suitable API calls or the like which bring up the image related application screen.

Referring again to the mobile device is shown displaying an example camera roll application which allows a user to see previously captured images e.g. images and by sliding a finger in the direction shown by the arrow which moves images and in the direction of finger motion across the display . As shown film sprocket holes can be displayed on the images and to emphasize the camera roll metaphor e.g. displaying images in a strip similar to a traditional film camera . Using a camera roll allows a user to swipe a finger across a touch screen and thereby move the image in the direction of the swipe or a drag or flip and allows a user to see previously taken photos.

Although the controls described above in connection with are shown as being displayed on a touch screen some or all of the controls can be implemented using hardware buttons or other user interface devices including any of the aforementioned NUIs.

As previously mentioned in some implementations the end user is able to access some or all of the image related applications with the click of a button physical or virtual even when the device is locked. That is in these embodiments the button can be used to access predetermined ones of the image related applications in an above lock state. In some embodiments the image related applications that are available above lock may be specified by the end user or in an enterprise environment by a corporate IT department.

As shown in the mobile device is depicted after capturing an image using a camera not shown coupled to the mobile device while the device was in above lock state. As shown the display of the mobile device also includes an above lock indicator along with controls and which can be used to control a subset of the image capture functionality available in below lock state. It should be noted that other controls which are available in a below lock state see are not available in above lock state. In particular in this example email image button save image button upload image button and delete image button are not available in above lock state. However in this example application launch button is available above lock to launch a screen which presents all the image related applications that are available to the user on the mobile communication device when in above lock state.

Examples of functionality that may be allowed by an image related application when the mobile device is in the above lock state may include one or more of the following functionality associated with the viewfinder capture mode of an image related application to provide photo capture video capture display of a most recently captured photograph i.e. a confirmation image and adjustment of image capture settings such as flash zoom autofocus white balance and other such image operations. The available viewfinder functionality in the above lock state typically includes operations that would not compromise a user s privacy if accessed by an authenticated user.

Furthermore other functionality normally available in below lock state s can be disabled in above lock state s . For example auto upload of images can be disabled in the above lock state to prevent accidently or undesirably captured photographs from being uploaded to a remote server or computing cloud. Other functions that may be disabled include delete image send to use as view image gallery and other such private image operations.

An image related application or certain functionality provided by an image related application may not be available above lock if it requires other capabilities of the mobile device which are unavailable in an above lock state. For instance this may occur if an image related application requires access to an e mail or contacts application which are themselves not available in an above lock state.

In some examples the user can proceed to an authentication screen from the above lock limited feature image related application and after being successfully authenticated return to the full featured application that is available only when in a below lock state.

Image related applications are now available which acquire data not only in basic video formats such as JPEG and MP4 for example but which also acquire and store additional backing data associated with the acquired images. For instance an image related application that renders a three dimensional image generally stores JPEG data and backing data that is used to form a three dimensional model from the JPEG data. Similarly an image related application that renders a panoramic image generally stores JPEG data and backing data that is used to form the panoramic image from one or more JPEG images. Accordingly the basic video data along with the associated backing data which may be referred to as rich media data is used to present the image in the intended manner e.g. as a three dimensional image or a panoramic image .

In some embodiments of the disclosed technology the camera roll which allows the user to see previously captured images is only capable of saving and presenting data in one of the basic image and video formats. Consequently the camera roll may not be able to render the images as intended using the rich media data. Rather the camera roll may only be able to render a representation that uses the basic image and video format portion of the rich media data. In this case the camera roll may present the basic e.g. JPEG MP4 representation to the user along with a link back to the image related application that acquired the image. For instance shows a basic representation of a rich media image along with a link back to the application 3D Photo Application which captured the image. In this way the user can quickly view the complete rich media representation of the image though the image related application. Moreover in this way the camera roll can now serve as a single entry point for all images whether or not they include rich media data. As a result the user can render a complete representation of the image without having to search through all of the applications available on the mobile device simply to find the application that acquired the image. If the rich media data is stored separately from the data in the basic representation some scheme such as the use of a unique identifier may be used to re associate the two types of data when the rich media representation is to be rendered.

In addition to viewing the basic representation without accessing the original application the user may be able to share the basic representation using conventional sharing applications.

As discussed above certain image related applications and or some functions offered by certain image related applications may not be available in an above lock state. If a user attempts to access such an application or function while above lock the application may make a call to the unlock dialog box API to switch to a below lock state. This call brings up one or more screens that allow the user to unlock the mobile device. An example of such a screen is shown in .

One the device enters the below lock state the user will be returned to the application that the user was attempting to access in the above lock state. At this point however the full functionality of the application will now be available.

The disclosed methods apparatus and systems should not be construed as limiting in any way. Instead the present disclosure is directed toward all novel and nonobvious features and aspects of the various disclosed embodiments alone and in various combinations and subcombinations with one another. The disclosed methods apparatus and systems are not limited to any specific aspect or feature or combination thereof nor do the disclosed embodiments require that any one or more specific advantages be present or problems be solved. The techniques and solutions described in this application can be used in various combinations to provide an improved user experience with mobile devices including mobile devices such as smart phones.

Any of the methods described herein can be performed via one or more non transitory computer readable media e.g. storage or other tangible media comprising e.g. having or storing computer executable instructions for performing e.g. causing a computing device to perform such methods. Operation can be fully automatic semi automatic or involve manual intervention.

Having described and illustrated the principles of our innovations in the detailed description and accompanying drawings it will be recognized that the various embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. For example any technologies described herein for capturing still photos can also be adapted for capturing video. It should be understood that the programs processes or methods described herein are not related or limited to any particular type of computing environment unless indicated otherwise. Various types of general purpose or specialized computing environments may be used with or perform operations in accordance with the teachings described herein. Elements of embodiments shown in software may be implemented in hardware and vice versa.

In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of the disclosed invention may be applied it should be recognized that the illustrated embodiments are only preferred examples of the invention and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention. Rather the scope of the invention is defined by the following claims. We therefore claim as our invention all that comes within the scope of these claims and their equivalents.

