---

title: Information processing apparatus and information processing method
abstract: An information processing device  causes a display  to display a program guide in which program information broadcast in one channel is placed in a region having a date axis and a time axis. When a moving operation of the cursor in the time axis direction on the program guide, which particularly is a moving operation from a broadcasting program on a certain date to another broadcasting program on a next date, is accepted, the broadcasting program on the next date is displayed at a position on the date axis at which the broadcasting program on the certain date is displayed, without moving the cursor in the date axis direction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09055342&OS=09055342&RS=09055342
owner: SONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT INC.
number: 09055342
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120406
---
The present invention relates to a data processing technology and more particularly to a technology for displaying an electronic program table hereinafter referred to also as EPG Electronic Program Guide .

In digital television broadcasting in recent years information of programs is transmitted by a broadcasting signal and an electronic program guide is sometimes displayed on a television receiver or a recording apparatus. Usually an electronic program guide is displayed in such a form that information of a plurality of programs is disposed in a two dimensional region having a time axis and a channel axis.

An electronic program guide so far merely presents summary information of a program determined by a broadcasting station or the like and merely is a sort of a program guide published in a newspaper or a magazine and displayed as electronic data. Therefore the inventor of the present invention estimated that the usability of the electronic program guide is not necessarily good to viewers.

The present invention has been made in view of such an estimation of the inventor of the present invention as described above and it is a principal object of the present invention to provide a technology that implements an electronic program guide superior in usability to a viewer.

In order to solve the problem described above an information processing apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention includes a program guide displaying unit configured to cause a predetermined display apparatus to display a program guide in which program information broadcast in one channel is placed in a region having a date axis and a time axis and a cursor displaying unit configured to have a cursor displayed for allowing a user to select a specific program on the program guide and place when a moving operation of the cursor in the time axis direction on the program guide is accepted the cursor into a state in which the cursor selects a program to be broadcast in a time zone different from that till then. The program guide displaying unit has when a moving operation of the cursor in the time axis direction on the program guide which particularly is a moving operation from a broadcasting program on a certain date to another broadcasting program on a next date is accepted the broadcasting program on the next date displayed at a position on the date axis at which the broadcasting program on the certain date is displayed.

Another embodiment of the present invention is an information processing method. This method is a method executed by an information processing apparatus and includes a step of causing a predetermined display apparatus to display a program guide in which program information broadcast in one channel is placed in a region having a date axis and a time axis a step of having a cursor displayed for allowing a user to select a specific program on the program guide and placing when a moving operation of the cursor in the time axis direction on the program guide is accepted the cursor into a state in which the cursor selects a program to be broadcast in a time zone different from that till then and a step of having when a moving operation of the cursor in the time axis direction on the program guide which particularly is a moving operation from a broadcasting program on a certain date to another broadcasting program on a next date is accepted the broadcasting program on the next date displayed at a position on the date axis at which the broadcasting program on the certain date is displayed.

It is to be noted that optional combinations of the constituting elements described above and those obtained by converting the representations of the present invention between or among an apparatus a method a system a program a recording medium on or in which the program is stored and so forth are also effective as embodiments of the present invention.

According to the present invention an electronic program guide superior in usability can be provided to a viewer.

A description is now given of the base technology before explaining an embodiment of the present invention. The base technology provides an information processing technology of improving the comfort and convenience of a user viewing a program that is being broadcast or a program broadcast in the past. The information processing technology includes the following four technical elements.

A summary of the first technical element will be discussed. Conventional electronic program guides merely present summary information related to programs and defined by broadcasting stations etc. As such they are not necessarily convenient to use for viewers. The base technology provides a technology for providing an electronic program guide that provides excellent usability for viewers. For example the electronic program guide of a form of the base technology provides a user interface whereby the convenience for viewers viewing program information is improved.

A summary of the second technical element will be discussed. Currently Internet connection is available in a growing number of households. Information appliances in possession of a viewer of a program are equipped with the capabilities of exchanging data with a server on the Internet. The base technology proposes a technology of providing an electronic program guide that is based on data exchange over the Internet and designed to present information useful for viewers as well as mere program summaries. For example the electronic program guide according to a form of the base technology presents the popularity ranking of a plurality of programs broadcast in the same time zone.

A summary of the third technical element will be discussed. The base technology provides a technology that implements a user friendly user interface in a portal screen that serves as a primary entrance to various functional screens including the display screen of an electronic program guide. For example the portal screen according to a form of the base technology provides latest information on program viewing useful for viewers of a program.

A summary of the fourth technical element will be discussed. The base technology provides a technology that provides a search result useful for a viewer viewing a program. For example the program viewing screen according to a form of the base technology displays a result of Internet search using a keyword related to the program along with the image of the program.

The program viewing system allows viewing recording reproducing of terrestrial digital television broadcast and displaying of a program guide. The program viewing system includes an information processing apparatus a controller a tuner and a display . In the first form of the base technology the program viewing system represents a unit of viewers. Therefore two or more people watching the display may be dealt with as one viewer.

The tuner is a terrestrial digital television tuner. The tuner receives a broadcast signal on a channel selected by the viewer and decodes the broadcast signal into image information. The tuner then sends the image information to the information processing apparatus . The tuner also acquires EPG information program information from the broadcast signal and sends the information to the information processing apparatus . The tuner and the information processing apparatus may be connected by a universal serial bus USB cable.

The tuner includes a coaxial cable interface unit a B CAS registered trademark card interface unit a USB interface unit and a signal processing unit . The coaxial cable interface unit functions as an interface with a coaxial cable connected to the antenna and acquires a broadcast signal of terrestrial digital television broadcast. The B CAS card interface unit functions as an interface with a B CAS card and acquires an encryption key for decoding the broadcast signal from the B CAS card.

The USB interface unit functions as an interface with a USB cable and acquires identification information of the channel selected by the viewer from the information processing apparatus . Further the USB interface unit sends image information on the selected channel and EPG information to the information processing apparatus . The signal processing unit retrieves a signal on the channel selected by the viewer from the broadcast signal and decodes the signal into image information according to the encryption key of the B CAS card.

Referring back to the information processing apparatus is a computer terminal connected to the Internet that acknowledges the viewer s operation via the controller and is operated accordingly. The information processing apparatus may be a desktop game device. A program viewer application hereinafter also referred to as program viewer AP for displaying and recording live transmission of a program broadcast on terrestrial digital television and for playing back recorded images is installed in the information processing apparatus . Also installed in the information processing apparatus is a web browser for interpreting data for a structure document described in HTML XML etc. and displaying the result.

When the program viewer AP is started in the information processing apparatus the information processing apparatus may for example acquire image information on the channel selected by the viewer from the tuner and display the program image on the display . The information processing apparatus may also acquire EPG information from the tuner and display an electronic program guide on the display . The detailed configuration of the information processing apparatus will be described later. The information processing apparatus and the display may be connected by a high definition multimedia interface HDMI registered trademark cable.

The information management server manages the status of viewing programs acquired from the plurality of program viewing systems and delivers the viewing status to each of the program viewing systems . The detailed configuration of the information management server will be described later. The search server provides a search service and supplies the source originating a search request with information indicating a web page with a high score of matching with the search key designated in the search request.

The information management server includes a communication processing unit a tally result storage unit and a data processing unit for performing various data processes. The data processing unit may include a viewer tally unit a programmed recording tally unit and an indicator providing unit .

The communication processing unit performs a process of communicating with an external device via the Internet . The data processing unit exchanges data with the information processing apparatus in the program viewing system via the communication processing unit . The tally result storage unit is a storage area for storing data indicating the tally score in the viewer tally unit and the programmed recording tally unit described later.

Referring back to the viewer tally unit acquires the program ID of the program currently viewed by the viewer from each of the plurality of information processing apparatuses on a periodical basis and adds up the number of viewers viewing each program. In the first form of the base technology viewer attributes i.e. age group and sex are acquired along with the program ID. The number of viewers viewing the program identified by the program ID is added up for each viewer attribute so that the resultant score is stored in the tally result storage unit .

The programmed recording tally unit acquires the program ID of the program that the viewer has programmed to record from each of the plurality of information processing apparatuses on a periodical basis and adds up the number of recordings programmed. In the first form of the base technology viewer attributes are acquired along with the program ID. The number of recordings programmed for the program identified by the program ID is added up for each viewer attribute so that the resultant score is stored in the tally result storage unit .

The indicator providing unit supplies the information processing apparatus with an indicator indicating the status of viewing programs in the information processing system . The indicator includes an indicator indicative of the number of viewers viewing a program hereinafter live indicator and an indicator indicative of the number of viewers that have programmed recordings of the program hereinafter programmed recording indicator .

More specifically the indicator providing unit transmits as a live indicator the number of viewers categorized according to the age group and sex stored in the tally result storage unit to the information processing apparatus . The indicator providing unit also transmits the number of recordings programmed categorized according to the age group and sex stored in the tally result storage unit to the information processing apparatus .

In one variation the indicator providing unit may supply as a live indicator the result of entering the number of viewers in a predetermined evaluation function instead of the number of viewers itself. For example the number of viewers of a given program relative to the total number of viewers i.e. the viewing rate may be supplied. The same is true of the programmed recording indicator. For example the number of programmed recordings of a given program relative to the total number of viewers i.e. the programmed recording rate may be supplied as a programmed recording indicator.

The CPU controls signal processing and internal components based on various programs such as a game an e mail program and an application for a web browser. The CPU may be a multicore CPU such as a CELL. Alternatively the CPU may be a heterogeneous multicore CPU in which a plurality of heterogeneous processor cores are combined.

The GPU performs image processing. The input and output processor performs a process for interfacing between an external device and internal components or a process for maintaining downward compatibility. The optical disk reading unit reads from an optical disk such as a BD DVD and CD in which an application program or multimedia data is recorded. The main memory functions as a buffer that temporarily stores data read from a work area of the CPU or the optical disk. The mask ROM primarily stores an operating system program run by the CPU or the input and output processor . The sound processor processes a sound signal.

The information processing apparatus also includes a CD DVD BD processor an optical disk reading driver a mechanism controller a hard disk drive and a card connector e.g. a PC card slot . The CD DVD BD processor applies an error correction e.g. cross interleave Reed Solomon coding CIRC process or an expanding and decoding process on a disk signal read by the optical disk reading unit from a CD DVD BD and amplified by an RF amplifier . Thereby the data recorded in the CD DVD BD is reproduced restored . The optical disk reading driver and the mechanism controller control the rotation of a spindle motor of the optical disk reading unit focusing tracking of an optical pickup and loading of a disk tray.

The hard disk drive stores data saved from an application program or game read from the optical disk reading unit or stores data such as photos moving images and music acquired via the input and output processor . The card connector is a connection port for a communication card an external hard disk drive etc.

These components are primarily connected to each other via bus lines etc. The CPU and the GPU are connected via a dedicated bus. The CPU and the input and output processor are connected via SBUS. The input and output processor is connected to the CD DVD BD processor the mask ROM the sound processor the card connector and the hard disk drive via SSBUS.

The CPU controls the overall operation of the information processing apparatus by running the operating system program for the CPU stored in the mask ROM . The CPU reads various data from an optical disk such as CD DVD BD etc. and loads the data into the main memory . The CPU may also run various application programs downloaded via a communication network and control games creation editing of e mail messages or an operation like web page browsing.

The input and output processor runs an operating system program for the input and output processor stored in the mask ROM and thereby controls input and output. For example the input and output processor controls the input and output of user generated signals or game settings from the controller contents or addresses of e mail messages or data from a memory card adapted to store web site URLs etc.

Further the input and output processor controls data input and output via a USB connection terminal a network card an IEEE1394 terminal or a PC card slot not shown etc. For example the input and output processor may be connected to the tuner via the USB connection terminal or connected to the Internet via the network card . The input and output processor may also perform data input and output through the memory card via the PC card slot not shown . Information from the controller or the memory card is mediated by an interface which includes a multimedia slot and a wireless transmission reception port.

For example the wireless transmission reception port communicates with a game controller or a BD DVD operation controller using wireless LAN or Bluetooth registered trademark . The interface is also provided with an interface with an HDMI registered trademark cable and outputs image data to the display via the interface.

The GPU is provided with the function of a geometry transfer engine for processes like coordinate conversion and the function of a rendering processor. The GPU renders an image in accordance with a rendering instruction from the CPU and stores the rendered image in a frame buffer not shown . For example given that an application program stored in an optical disk uses three dimensional 3D graphics e.g. a game program the GPU computes the coordinates of polygons forming three dimensional objects by performing geometric computation. In the rendering process the GPU performs computation to generate an image obtained by capturing the three dimensional object with a virtual camera i.e. computation for perspective transformation computation of coordinate values occurring when the vertices of polygons forming the three dimensional object are projected onto a virtual camera screen . The image data ultimately obtained is written in the frame buffer. The GPU outputs a video signal corresponding to the image thus generated.

The sound processor is provided with functions for adaptive differential pulse code modulation ADPCM decoding audio signal reproduction signal modulation etc. The ADPCM decoding function is a function of reconstructing and outputting an audio signal for sound effects etc. by reading waveform data stored in a sound buffer not shown built in the sound processor or externally coupled to the sound processor . The signal modulation function also functions as a sampling sound source capable of generating an audio signal for musical sound sound effects etc. from the waveform data stored in the sound buffer.

When the information processing apparatus having the configuration as described above is turned on the operating system programs for the CPU and for the input and output processor are read from the mask ROM . The CPU and the input and output processor run the corresponding operating system programs. This allows the CPU to control the components of the information processing apparatus in a coordinated manner. The input and output processor controls the input and output of signals from and to the controller the memory card etc.

Upon starting the operating system program the CPU performs an initialization process such as verification of the operation. The CPU then controls the optical disk reading unit to read an application program such as a game stored in the optical disk and load the program in the main memory and then runs for example the game application program. When the game application program is run the CPU controls the GPU and the sound processor in accordance with a user instruction acknowledged from the controller via the input and output processor so as to control the display of images and generation of sound effects or musical sound etc.

For example when a movie stored in the optical disk is played back the CPU controls the GPU and the sound processor in accordance with a user instruction command acknowledged from the controller via the input and output processor so as to control the display of images generation of sound effects or musical sound etc in the movie played back from the optical disk.

The information processing apparatus is provided with an external interface unit a data storage unit and a data processing unit . The external interface unit provides an interface with various external devices. The data processing unit exchanges data with an external device via the external interface unit . The external interface unit includes a tuner IF unit a communication processing unit an operation detection unit and a display data output unit .

The tuner IF unit provides an interface with the tuner and sends data acknowledged from the tuner to the data processing unit . The communication processing unit runs a process of communicating with the information management server and the search server via the Internet . The operation detection unit detects a viewer operation of the controller and sends the content of operation to the data processing unit . The display data output unit sends the data for videos and images for display sent from a display processing unit described later to the display to display the videos and images accordingly.

The data storage unit is a storage area for storing data and may be implemented as a hard disk drive and data stored therein. The data storage unit includes a program information storage unit a recording information storage unit and a thumbnail storage unit .

The program information storage unit stores program information on a plurality of programs that should be displayed in the electronic program guide. shows the structure of data stored in the program information storage unit . A program summary field is adapted to contain summary information on the program. A popularity rank field is adapted to temporarily contain the relative popularity of each of a plurality of programs broadcast in the same time zone.

Referring back to the recording information storage unit stores recording information related to the recording of programs in the information processing apparatus . shows the structure of data stored in the recording information storage unit . A recording ID field is adapted to contain a recording ID uniquely identifying the recorded content in the information processing apparatus .

A recording flag field of is adapted to contain a flag indicating whether the recording process is completed or whether an error occurred during the recording process. For example a record done in the recording flag field indicates that the recording is completed and a record not done in the recording flag field indicates that the recording is programmed. A playback progress rate field is adapted to contain a value indicating the progress of playback of the recorded content i.e. the percentage of the recorded content already played back. For example the playback progress rate 0 in a record indicates that the recorded content has not been played back at all. A content data field is adapted to contain data of the recorded content itself i.e. data for the images of the program recorded.

Referring back to the thumbnail storage unit stores data for a thumbnail image showing a part of the image included in the recorded content on a reduced scale associating the data with the recording ID of the recorded content. A thumbnail image may be a still image or a moving image.

A physical storage area for the data storage unit to store the data may be the hard disk drive built in the information processing apparatus the external hard disk drive or the memory card . The external hard disk drive may store only the recorded information of a relatively large data size particularly the data in the content data field . The storage area for storing the respective data may be determined as needed according to the operation of the viewer.

The data processing unit is a functional block for performing data processing and may be implemented as a module of a computer program. The data processing unit includes a program image acquisition unit a program information acquisition unit an attribute acquisition unit a recording processing unit a playback processing unit an indicator acquisition unit a popularity determination unit a thumbnail setting unit a search key acquisition unit a search execution unit the display processing unit and a viewing status communicating unit .

The program image acquisition unit acquires image information of a program sent from the tuner . The program information acquisition unit acquires EPG information sent from the tuner and stores the program information of the programs in the program information storage unit .

The attribute acquisition unit acquires attribute information of the viewer entered by the viewer e.g. the age and sex of the viewer. For example the attribute acquisition unit may acquire the attribute information from a predetermined storage area adapted to store the attribute information entered by the viewer in a setting screen of the information processing apparatus .

The recording processing unit programs the recording of a program designated by the viewer and records the program accordingly. Moreover the recording processing unit updates the recording information in the recording information storage unit as appropriate. For example the recording flag is set to not done in the programmed recording process. In the recording process the image data for the program to be recorded is successively recorded in the content data field. When the recording process is completed normally the recording flag is set to done. When an error occurs in the recording process the recording flag is set to error. 

When the target program being recorded is ranked at or higher than a certain rank in the ranking of popularity as determined by the popularity determination unit described later e.g. when the program is ranked as the third most popular program or higher the recording processing unit indicates as such in the recorded content. In the first form of the base technology a chapter is inserted into the recorded content when the program is ranked at or higher than a certain rank in the ranking of popularity.

The playback processing unit plays back the recorded content by sending the image data for the content designated by the viewer to the display processing unit . In association with this the playback processing unit updates the recording information in the recording information storage unit as appropriate in accordance with the status of playback of the recorded content. For example the processing unit sets the rate of playback time relative to the recorded time in the playback progress rate field.

The playback processing unit may play back only the popular scene in the program originating the recorded content in accordance with an instruction from the viewer. For example the playback processing unit may play back only the portion preceding and succeeding the insertion of the chapter by the recording processing unit for a predetermined period of time. Alternatively changes in the ranking of popularity as determined by the popularity determination unit described later may be stored in the data storage unit . The playback processing unit may play back only the portion of the program originating the recorded content ranked at or higher than a certain rank in the ranking of popularity.

The indicator acquisition unit acquires a live indicator and a programmed recording indicator from the information management server . Typically the live indicator and the programmed recording indicator are acquired when the display processing unit starts displaying an electronic program guide. The latest live indicator and the programmed recording indicator are acquired when an elapse of a predetermined interval period is detected.

The popularity determination unit determines the ranking of relative popularity of a plurality of programs broadcast in the same time zone in accordance with the live indicator and or the programmed recording indicator. In the first form of the base technology the larger the sum of the live indicator and the programmed recording indicator the higher the program is ranked. Since the live indicator is not available for a program not broadcast yet the ranking of popularity is determined only on the basis of the programmed recording indicator. After determining the ranking of popularity of programs the popularity determination unit updates the data in the popularity rank field forming the program information in the program information storage unit .

When the population in which the ranking of popularity should be determined is designated by the user the popularity determination unit determines the ranking of popularity in accordance with the live indicator and the programmed recording indicator associated with the designated attribute in this case age group and sex . When the population is not designated the ranking of popularity is determined in accordance with the sum of live indicators across the attributes and the sum of programmed recording indicators across the attributes.

The popularity determination unit may output the indicator itself acquired by the indicator acquisition unit as data indicating the degree of popularity without determining the ranking popularity. In this case the indicator itself is dealt with as the ranking of popularity.

Upon detecting that the recording process is completed in the recording processing unit the thumbnail setting unit refers to the recording information in the recording information storage unit and sets a thumbnail image showing a moving image or still image stored as content data on a reduced scale. The thumbnail setting unit stores the data for the thumbnail image in the thumbnail storage unit associating the data with the recording ID.

Of the plurality of images stored as content data the thumbnail setting unit according to the first form of the base technology sets a thumbnail image from the image of a popular scene in the program originating the recorded content. For example a thumbnail image may be created from an image immediately preceding or succeeding the insertion of a chapter by the recording processing unit . Alternatively changes in the ranking of popularity as determined by the popularity determination unit may be stored in the data storage unit so that the thumbnail setting unit may create a thumbnail image from the image occurring when the program originating the recorded content is ranked the highest.

The search key acquisition unit acquires the ID of the program being displayed on the display from a program image displaying unit and acquires as a search key program information associated with the program ID from the program information storage unit . The program being displayed may be a program broadcast live or a recorded program. The program information used as a search key may be the program title or the name of a performer. Alternatively the information may be a noun phrase extracted appropriately from a character string of the summary information by for example morphological analysis.

The search key may not be limited to a key word. The search key acquisition unit may acquire data of another format e.g. image data etc. included in the program information as a search key. In other words data of an arbitrary format permitted by the search server may be acquired. Alternatively the search key acquisition unit may set a search key using a plurality of elements in the program information as AND conditions. Still alternatively the search key acquisition unit may send the respective elements as search keys to the search execution unit or causes the search execution unit to perform a plurality of search processes successively. Still alternatively when the program information of the program being displayed is updated the search key acquisition unit may acquire a new search key from the program information as updated and causes the search execution unit to perform a new search using the new search key.

The search execution unit transmits a search request designating the search key acquired by the search key acquisition unit to the search server . The search execution unit acquires as a search result a combination of the matching score with the search key and an URL of a web page from the search server . The search execution unit acquires the data for the web page determined by the search server to have the highest matching score with the search key based on the URL. The search execution unit then sends the data for the web page to the display processing unit .

The display processing unit causes the display to display an image desired by the viewer by sending the data for a moving image or still image that should be displayed on the display to the display data output unit . The display processing unit includes a portal screen displaying unit a standby screen displaying unit the program image displaying unit a search result displaying unit a program guide displaying unit and a video control screen displaying unit .

The portal screen displaying unit displays a portal screen that serves as a primary source of transition to a plurality of types of viewing screens or control screens. The portal screen is a top frontend screen displayed without exception when any of a plurality of types of viewing screens or control screens is displayed. The portal screen serves as a common entrance to these screens. The plurality of types of viewing screens and control screens include a television screen for viewing the image from a program hereinafter also simply referred to as live image currently broadcast on terrestrial digital television a video screen for playing back a recorded program and a setting screen for entering various settings for the program viewing AP.

When a schedule icon is selected transition is made to a schedule screen for viewing a schedule e.g. programmed recording . When a video icon is selected transition is made to a video screen. When a program search icon is selected transition is made to a program search screen for searching for a program being broadcast or scheduled to be broadcast. When a manual icon is selected transition is made to a manual screen displaying a manual related to the operation of the program viewing AP. When the setting icon is selected transition is made to a setting screen.

A latest information pop represents a pop up display of the latest information corresponding to the type of on screen selection icon that is selectable. Referring to the TV icon is being made selectable. The latest information pop indicating the status of viewing by other viewers of the program currently broadcast is displayed in association with the TV icon . For example the portal screen displaying unit may display in the latest information pop the title of the program ranked No. 1 by the popularity determination unit among the programs current broadcast.

By way of another example the portal screen displaying unit may display in the latest information pop which is displayed in association with the schedule icon the number of currently programmed recordings or the title of the program programmed to be recorded. The portal screen displaying unit may display a currently available hard disk space or time available for recording in the latest information pop displayed in association with the video icon

A status tag indicates the viewing status of the recorded content in other words the viewing status based on the video related operation . The status tag includes an error situation tag an unviewed tag and a programmed recording tag . In the event of an error during a recording process in the recording processing unit the portal screen displaying unit displays the situation in the error situation tag . The portal screen displaying unit also refers to the recording information stored in the recording information storage unit and displays the number of recorded contents that are recorded and not played back yet 0 playback progress rate in the unviewed tag . The portal screen displaying unit also refers to the recording information and displays the number of programmed recordings not yet processed in the programmed recording tag

A recorded content thumbnail is a thumbnail image of each recorded content. One thumbnail image is displayed per one recorded content. The portal screen displaying unit acquires a thumbnail image of the recorded content that should be displayed from the thumbnail storage unit and sets the image in the portal screen. Recorded content thumbnails for the entirety of the recorded contents may be displayed. Alternatively thumbnail images of only those recorded contents with less than 100 playback progress rate may be displayed or thumbnail images of only those recorded contents with 0 playback progress rate may be displayed.

Referring back to the standby screen displaying unit displays a standby screen. The standby screen is a screen displayed when a viewer operation is not detected for a predetermined period of time e.g. 30 seconds or more in the portal screen. The standby screen could be equated with a screen saver. When a user operation using the controller is detected while the standby screen is being displayed the standby screen displaying unit terminates the display of the standby screen so that the portal screen displaying unit displays the portal screen again.

The standby screen displaying unit refers to the recording information in the recording information storage unit so as to change the mode of display of the recorded content thumbnail corresponding to the recorded content in accordance with the attribute of the recorded content. For example the recorded content with the recording date and time closer to the current date and time may be indicated by a recorded content thumbnail displayed in a varying mode assumed to attract more attention of the viewer. More specifically the target recorded content thumbnail may be displayed on a scale larger than the other recorded content thumbnails . Alternatively the target recorded content thumbnail may be allowed to change its mode of display more rapidly than the other recorded content thumbnails .

Referring back to the program image displaying unit displays the image of the program on the display . For example when the TV icon is selected in the portal screen the program image displaying unit displays the live image of the program acquired by the program image acquisition unit . When the video icon is selected in the portal screen and playback of the recorded content is requested in the video screen at the destination of transition the program image displaying unit displays the image of the recorded content acknowledged from the playback processing unit .

The program image displaying unit displays a control icon for acknowledging a viewer operation in the television screen or the video screen hereinafter generically referred to as image display screen displaying the image of a program. shows an exemplary image display screen . Control icons in the figure include a search icon for initiating an Internet search using information related to the program as a key. Selection of the search icon represents a trigger for starting a process in the search key acquisition unit and the search execution unit .

Referring back to the search result displaying unit displays on a browser screen data for the web page acknowledged from the search execution unit as a search result. The browser screen is a screen in which the web browser is running.

Referring back to the program guide displaying unit performs a process of displaying an electronic program guide. The program guide displaying unit includes a cursor displaying unit a first program guide displaying unit and a second program guide displaying unit . The cursor displaying unit displays a cursor that allows the viewer to select a specific program in the electronic program guide and moves the cursor in accordance with the viewer operation. The viewer selects an area in which information on a program is displayed hereinafter also referred to as program frame in the electronic program guide by using the controller to move the cursor. The program frame can be said to be a cell area formed by a time axis and a channel axis.

When a predetermined viewer operation is acknowledged while a program is being displayed by the program image displaying unit the first program guide displaying unit refers to the program information in the program information storage unit and displays a first program guide superimposing the guide on the program image. The first program guide includes an arrangement of program information on a plurality of programs currently broadcast in respective channels. The first program guide displaying unit displays the first program guide setting a predetermined transparency rate so that the program image in the background is viewable to the viewer.

In the first form of the base technology the first program guide displaying unit displays the first program guide in which only the information on the currently broadcast programs is arranged. When a program displayed in a program frame ends the first program guide displaying unit displays information on a subsequently broadcast program in the program frame.

The cursor displaying unit displays a cursor for selecting the program frame . The viewer uses the cursor to select the program frame for the program for which the viewer wishes to view the program content or the progress status. The first program guide displaying unit acquires a program summary of the program corresponding to the program frame selected by the cursor hereinafter also referred to as temporarily selected program from the program information storage unit and displays the summary in a program summary field allowing the scrolling of the display. When the cursor is moved downward in a given program frame the first program guide displaying unit may display information on the program broadcast after the currently broadcast program in the program frame .

The first program guide displaying unit computes the degree of progress of the program based on the broadcast start time the broadcast end time and the current time of the temporarily selected program and displays the degree in a progress indicator . In one variation the first program guide displaying unit may indicate the degree of progress of each program to the viewer by varying the mode of display in the plurality of program frames displayed in the first program guide in accordance with the degree of progress of the programs.

Further the first program guide displaying unit displays a popularity transition indicator of the temporarily selected program. When the latest popularity rank of the temporarily selected program is acquired the first program guide displaying unit sets the popularity transition indicator to show the status of transition as compared with the past popularity rank e.g. rise decline or no change .

When a predetermined viewer operation e.g. depression of a designated button in the controller is initiated by the viewer for the temporarily selected program in the first program guide the data processing unit acknowledges that the temporarily selected program is designated as a formally selected program. This causes the program image displaying unit to switch the program image displayed in the image display screen to the image of the formally selected program. For example the program image acquisition unit acquires the image information on the formally selected program from the tuner and the program image displaying unit displays the program image of the formally selected program on the display .

The first program guide displaying unit may further display the live indicator and or the programmed recording indicator providing the ground for the current popularity rank associating the indicator with the program for which the popularity rank indicator is displayed or the temporarily selected program not shown in . According to this form the viewer can view the data itself that indicates the actual status of viewing in addition to the popularity rank which is an abstraction of the viewing status of the program.

Referring back to a second program guide displaying unit displays the second program guide in the entirety of the screen of the display when the program guide icon is selected in the portal screen. The second program guide shows an arrangement of program information on a plurality of programs using the time axis covering a plurality of time zones as a vertical axis and using the channel axis covering a plurality of channels as a horizontal axis.

The second program guide displaying unit enlarges or reduces the area for the program frames in the second program guide in accordance with a viewer operation. More specifically the second program guide displaying unit enlarges or reduces the size of the program frames per unit time or enlarges or reduces the size of the program frames per channel. Associated with this the volume of program information that can be displayed in each program frame is increased or decreased. For example the mode of displaying the second program guide may be switched such that vertical axis 24 hrs horizontal axis 9 channels vertical axis 5 hrs horizontal axis 7 channels vertical axis 3 hrs horizontal axis 5 channels or vertical axis 2 hrs horizontal axis 3 channels. 

The second program guide displaying unit displays the program title of the program started to be broadcast on the first line of the program frame in the second program guide and displays the program summary in the second and subsequent lines. In the second program guide where vertical axis 24 hrs horizontal axis 9 channels the program frame for a 30 minute program is displayed so as to consume a minimum unit of display i.e. a single line. Thus program information for a program that lasts less than 30 minutes is displayed in a balloon in accordance with the movement of a cursor described later.

The cursor displaying unit displays the cursor for selecting a program frame. The viewer uses the cursor to select the program frame of a program for which the viewer wishes to know more detailed information or a program that the viewer desires to control for viewing. The program highlighted by the cursor is designated as a temporarily selected program. The second program guide displaying unit enlarges the program frame of the temporarily selected program in the direction of channel axis i.e. displays the program frame in a larger size than the other program frames. Further the second program guide displaying unit displays the program summary of the temporarily selected program in a program summary field allowing the scrolling of the display.

The second program guide displaying unit displays program information on the formally selected program e.g. channel name broadcasting station name program title broadcast date and time viewing status program summary in a program detail window . A viewing status indicator shows the number of viewers of the formally selected program. More specifically the live indicator the programmed recording indicator or a total thereof may be displayed. When the formally selected program is designated the second program guide displaying unit displays the program detail window superimposing the program detail window on the second program guide in a pop up mode of display and displaying the second program guide in the background in a reduced image quality. For example the second program guide may be displayed in a blurred manner by removing high frequency components from the image data for the second program guide. Alternatively a semitransparent object may be displayed on the image of the second program guide.

A description will now be given of a variation adapted for a case where the display is a 3D display capable of stereographic display. The image of the program frame of the program selected by the cursor i.e. the temporarily selected program and or the image of the program detail window as displayed by the second program guide displaying unit may be a parallax view split temporarily or spatially.

For example when the viewer wears eyeglasses with a shutter a temporally split parallax view may be displayed and when the viewer wears eyeglasses with a polarization plate a spatially split parallax view may be displayed. Typically the program frame of the temporarily selected program and or the program detail window is displayed in front of the second program guide.

According to this variation viewability of the program frame of the temporarily selected program and or the program detail window is increased. Whether a parallax view is displayed or the mode of parallax view may be preset by the viewer. Alternatively the information processing apparatus may detect the type of the display and determine dynamically in accordance with the type.

Further the second program guide displaying unit temporarily displays a setting window for setting the character font of the second program guide on the display along with the second program guide. shows an exemplary second program guide as displayed. When a particular character font is designated by the viewer in a setting window the second program guide displaying unit immediately reflects the designated character font in the second program guide currently displayed. In other words the second program guide as displayed is switched to the guide in which program information is shown using the designated character font. shows an example in which the character size is changed. Alternatively the character style i.e. the type face may be similarly changed.

The second program guide displaying unit scrolls the second program guide in the time axis direction or the channel axis direction in accordance with the movement of the cursor in the second program guide thereby switching the displayed content in the second program guide. As regards the program frame a part of which is no longer displayed as a result of the scrolling in the time axis direction and which shows a program that has not been completely broadcast yet the second program guide displaying unit displays the program information that should be displayed in that program frame in an area that remains displayed after the scrolling starting at the head of the program information. In other words the second program guide displaying unit displays broadcast start time indicated by minutes program title in preference to the program summary.

The display area of program frames and of is reduced as compared to the status in . Since the program of the program frame is currently broadcast the second program guide displaying unit displays as much of the program information as can be fitted in the area of the program frame that remains displayed starting at the head of the information. In other words the position where the program information as displayed starts is shifted to the head of the remaining area.

Meanwhile since the programs for the program frames and have already been broadcast the second program guide displaying unit does not change the position where the program information as displayed starts. The second program guide displaying unit may display the program information of the program that has already been broadcast in a mode not so noticeable as that of the program information of the program not completely broadcast yet e.g. using a light gray character color and may not change the position where the program information starts in the program frame displayed in that mode.

Referring back to when the video icon is selected in the portal screen the video control screen displaying unit displays a video screen for controlling the operation of recording playing back the program on the display . The video control screen displaying unit includes a recording list displaying unit . The recording list displaying unit displays a list of recordings that includes information on recorded content and a list of programmed recordings.

In one variation the list of recordings in the video screen may contain only the information related to the content already recorded. In this case the information on programmed recording may be displayed in a schedule screen at the destination of transition reached when the schedule icon is selected in the portal screen.

Referring back to the viewing status communicating unit periodically transmits viewing status data to the information management server . The viewing status data associates the program ID of the program currently displayed by the program image displaying unit i.e. the program ID of the program currently viewed by the viewer with the attribute information of the viewer. Further the viewing status communicating unit periodically refers to the recording information in the recording information storage unit and periodically transmits viewing status data to the information management server . The viewing status data associates the program ID of the program programmed to be recorded with the attribute information of the viewer. The frequency of communicating the viewing status may be determined in light of the real time performance required to collect viewing status and of the network and system load comparing the requirements. For example the frequency may be once in every one minute.

In the portal screen the latest information pop is displayed in association with each of the icons for selecting respective functional screens. The status tag indicating the viewing status or operating status is also displayed. In this way the viewer can view the useful latest information in the portal screen without making a transition to each functional screen. Consequently viewer convenience is improved. By displaying a thumbnail image of recorded content in the portal screen or standby screen the viewer can not only view the recorded content but also enjoy viewing the history of recording. For example since the standby screen shows a thumbnail image in a varying mode the standby screen may be displayed as some sort of an interior decoration. By allowing a thumbnail image to be displayed in a mode that varies depending on the date and time of recording the viewer can easily identify and determine a recorded content to view.

When a viewer operation is detected Y in S the standby screen displaying unit terminates the display of the standby screen if it is being displayed. When the operation of selecting the TV icon is detected Y in S a live image display process described later is performed S . When the detected operation is not the selection of the TV icon N in S S is skipped. When the operation of selecting the program guide icon is detected Y in S a program guide display process described later is performed S . If the detected operation is not the selection of the program guide icon N in S S is skipped. When the operation of selecting the video icon is selected Y in S a video screen display process described later is performed S . When the detected operation is not the selection of the video icon N in S S is skipped so that the flow of the figure is terminated. When another on screen selection icon is selected in the portal screen the process of displaying a screen corresponding to the selected icon is performed not shown in the figure .

When a ranking determination interval e.g. one minute corresponding to the interval of collecting the viewing status in the information management server elapses the indicator acquisition unit again acquires the latest indicators from the information management server not shown in . The popularity determination unit updates the popularity rank of each program in accordance with the latest indicators. The first program guide displaying unit displays the updated popularity ranking of the programs in the first program guide.

By displaying the first program guide showing ranking indicators along with the live image of the program the viewer can know programs that are currently popular at a glance while viewing the desired program. In the first base technology the viewing status is identified based on a viewing action that can be objectively identified e.g. viewing of a program or a programming of a recording . In this way viewing status can be identified that is more precise than base upon the viewer s subjective indicator of the program e.g. like dislike intend to view or the like i.e. more properly representing the situation.

Since the channel can be switched by controlling the first program guide the viewer can select a program of interest as needed based on the changing ranking order. Since the first program guide shows the progress status of the programs or the status of transition in popularity the viewer can select a program to view by referring to the status. Since the program summary of the program selected by the cursor is displayed in the program summary field allowing the scrolling of the display the area occupied by the first program guide is controlled while allowing the viewer to view a desired program summary. This helps maintain the viewability of program image.

When a request for a search is acknowledged while the program image is being displayed Y in S or when the information related to the program being displayed is updated Y in S absent an explicit search request N in S the search key acquisition unit acquires a search key from the program information S . The search execution unit transmits a search request to the search server and receives a result of the search S . The search result displaying unit displays the browser screen showing the web page retrieved by the search side by side with the image display screen S . Absent an explicit search request and updating of the program related information N in S S through S are skipped so that the flow of the figure is terminated.

According to this form various information related to the program viewed is acquired from web sites on the Internet and presented to the viewer along with the program image. This allows the user to view a variety of information i.e. information not limited to typical program guide information associated with the program viewed. Further since a search key is automatically retrieved from the program information it is not necessary for the viewer to designate a search key. When the information related to a program is updated the information displayed in the browser screen is updated as changes occur. In this way the viewer can view a search result updated based on the latest information on the program without performing a specific operation and can continue to view the program image.

A part of the program frame goes out of the view in association with the movement of the cursor Y in S . When the program frame is for the program being broadcast Y in S the second program guide displaying unit displays the program information in the remaining area of the program frame starting at the head of the information S . When the program frame is for the program already broadcast N in S S is skipped. When none of the parts of the program frame goes out of the view N in S S and S are skipped. When the cursor is not moved N in S S to S are skipped.

Subsequently when the program that the viewer desires to control for viewing is selected in the second program guide i.e. when the program is formally selected Y in S the second program guide displaying unit displays the program information on the selected program in the program detail window in a pop up display mode S . In this case the control icon is displayed to accompany the program detail window . The second program guide is displayed in the background in a blurred manner. When the recording of the formally selected program is programmed Y in S the second program guide displaying unit displays the programmed recording line indicating the time zone of the programmed recording in the second program guide S .

When the recording is not programmed N in S S is skipped. When the program is not formally selected N in S S to S are skipped. When an instruction for changing the display mode of the second program guide e.g. change in character font change in size of program frame etc. is acknowledged Y in S the second program guide displaying unit immediately changes the mode of the second program guide S . When an instruction for changing the display mode is not acknowledged N in S S is skipped.

According to this form the area of the program frame in the second program guide selected by the cursor is dynamically enlarged so that more program information is displayed than before the selection. This reduces necessity for the viewer to perform an extra operation of for example displaying another screen to view program information. In other words the viewer operation for viewing program information is simplified so that the convenience of the electronic program guide is improved. By superimposing the program detail window on the second program guide the viewer is allowed to perform an operation for viewing the program while maintaining an impression of the time or program position viewed in the second program guide. By reducing the image quality of the second program guide in the background of the program detail window the viewability of the program detail window is relatively improved.

The display mode of the second program guide is changed as needed in accordance with user control while maintaining the display of the second program guide i.e. without making a transition to another setting screen. This provides the viewer with immediate feedback resulting from the change in the display mode. For example the viewer can immediately view the change in viewability. Further by setting the programmed recording line in the second program guide in association with the programmed recording the viewer can easily view the setting status of programmed recording even if the viewer cannot directly view the program frame of the program programmed to be recorded due to a large number of channels. This helps prevent duplicate programmed recordings or unexpected overwriting for example.

By displaying the program frame that partly goes out of the view starting at the head of the program information that should be displayed important information program title etc. is displayed in the remaining area of the program frame preferentially. When the program information is displayed starting in the middle of the information the viewer will not be able to determine which program the information is about. By displaying the information from the start the viewer can know the program content easily. By sliding only the program information of the program being broadcast into view in the program frame only the program content of the program that the viewer can view is presented in an easily distinguishable manner.

When an instruction to start playback is acknowledged Y in S the playback processing unit starts playing back the recorded content S and sends the data for recorded image to the program image displaying unit . The program image displaying unit displays the recorded image on the display S . When an instruction to end the playback is not acknowledged N in S control is returned to S. When an instruction to end the playback is acknowledged Y in S the playback processing unit ends the process of playing back the recorded content S and stores the playback progress rate occurring at that moment in the recording information storage unit S . When an instruction to start playback is not acknowledged N in S S to S are skipped.

When the recording process is already started Y in S and when a predetermined ranking determination interval e.g. one minute has elapsed Y in S the indicator acquisition unit acquires the live indicator and the programmed recording indicator from the information management server S . The popularity determination unit determines the popularity ranking in accordance with the indicators S . When the program being recorded is ranked at or higher than a predetermined rank Y in S the recording processing unit inserts a chapter in the recorded data S . When the program being recorded is not ranked at or higher than a predetermined rank N in S S is skipped. When the ranking determination interval has not elapsed N in S S to S are skipped. By inserting a chapter in the recorded content the viewer can easily search for and identify the start of a scene that is popular to viewers when playing back the recorded content.

When the recording end time comes Y in S the recording processing unit ends the recording process S . The thumbnail setting unit sets a thumbnail image from the recorded video and image occurring when the program is ranked at or higher than a predetermined rank and stores the thumbnail image in the thumbnail storage unit S . When the recording end time does not come N in S S and S are skipped. When the recording process is not started yet N in S S to S are skipped. According to this embodiment the scene that is popular to viewers is turned into a thumbnail image so that the recorded content is more easily identified by a thumbnail image.

Described above is an explanation based on the first form of the base technology. This form is intended to be illustrative only and it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that various modifications to constituting elements and processes could be developed and that such modifications are also within the scope of the first base technology. A description will now be given of variations to the first base technology.

The first variation will be described. The search key acquisition unit of the first base technology uses program information acknowledged as EPG information as a search key. In one variation the information processing apparatus may additionally be provided with a caption information acquisition unit that acquires caption information in character multiplex broadcast so called caption multiplex broadcast from the tuner . The search key acquisition unit may use a caption character string included in the caption information as a search key. For example the search key acquisition unit may subject the caption character string to morphological analysis and use a noun phrase included in the caption character string as a search key. Alternatively when the caption information acquisition unit acquires new caption information the search key acquisition unit may allow the search execution unit to perform a new search using the caption character string included in the new caption information as a new search key.

The second variation will be described. The search key acquisition unit may acquire a search key in accordance with the live indicator or programmed recording indicator acquired by the indicator acquisition unit or the popularity ranking of the programs determined by the popularity determination unit . According to this variation a search result useful for the viewer can easily be provided by using the program related information available when the popularity of the program is increased as a search key.

For example a search key may be acquired from the program information or caption character string available when the live indicator programmed recording indicator or a sum thereof of a program reaches a predetermined value or higher while the image of the program is being displayed. Alternatively a search key may be acquired from the program information or caption character string available when a program reaches a certain popularity rank or higher while the image of the program is being displayed. The caption character string indicator and history of popularity rank may be stored in the data storage unit in association with the program ID and the search key acquisition unit may acquire a search key based on the history information while the recorded content is being played back.

The third variation will be described. In the first form of the base technology the first program guide is assumed to be displayed in a display mode reflecting the popularity ranking of the programs and no reference is made to the second program guide. In one variation the second program guide may also be displayed in a display mode reflecting the popularity ranking of the programs. In this case the second program guide displaying unit may change the display mode e.g. color character font etc. of the program frames of the second program guide in accordance with the popularity ranking determined by the popularity determination unit . Alternatively similarly to the first program guide the popularity indicator or the data for an indicator itself may be displayed in association with the program frame. This variation provides the viewer with information useful for the viewer that selects a program for view in the second program guide. For example a program programmed by a lot of viewers to be recorded can be suggested to the viewer thereby helping the viewer to determine a program that should be programmed for recording.

The fourth variation will be described. The first program guide displaying unit may dynamically change the size of a program frame for each channel typically the length in the direction of channel axis in accordance with the attribute or propensity of the viewer or the information related to the program. For example the first program guide displaying unit may refer to the age group or sex of the viewer and display program frames for channels that are more likely to be viewed by viewers having a selected attribute on a larger scale. Alternatively the higher the current popularity rank the larger the program frame of the program may be displayed. The program frame for a channel in which the broadcasting of a program ends and that of the next program has not been started may be displayed on a smaller scale than the program frames for the other channels in which programs continue to be broadcast. According to this variation the viewability of program frames for channels that are likely to be selected by viewers is improved and the volume of displayable program information can be increased.

The fifth variation will be described. The program image acquisition unit may acquire from the tuner the program image currently ranked at a predetermined rank typically No. 1 or higher as determined by the popularity determination unit . When the popularity ranking changes the channel from which to acquire image information may be dynamically switched in accordance with the change. The program image displaying unit displays the program image acquired by the program image acquisition unit in accordance with the change in popularity ranking on the display . According to this variation a program that is popular to viewers is automatically selected so that the display always displays the image of a popular program. This implements a sort of zapping without viewer intervention.

The sixth variation will be described. When playing back the recorded content the playback processing unit may communicate the information indicating as such to the information management server along with the program ID. The information management server may periodically supply the information processing apparatus with a playback ratio indicating the ratio of viewers that have played back the recorded content with respect to the viewers having programmed the program with the program ID to be recorded associating the ratio with the program ID. The playback ratio is stored in the recording information in the recording information storage unit . The recording list displaying unit may further display the playback ratio in association with each recorded content in the list of recordings. The viewer may select one of the plurality of recorded contents for view by referring to the playback ratio of the recorded contents.

The seventh variation will be described. The recording processing unit may record the live image ranked at or higher than a predetermined rank typically No. 1 even without a viewer operation for recording. In this case the recording processing unit dynamically changes the live image recorded in accordance with a change in popularity ranking. According to this variation the live image of a popular program is always recorded in the background. The viewer can later view a program image popular to other viewers in an efficient manner.

This variation is particularly suitable in the program viewing system provided with a plurality of tuners . According to the first form of the base technology the viewer can refer to the first program guide and know that the popularity of a program different from the program that the viewer is viewing is increased. However the viewer may find it difficult to view the very program image that caused the increase in popularity even if the viewer switches to the other program. According to this variation program images that become popular are always recorded so that the viewer does not miss out on viewing program images that become popular. As a result viewer convenience is improved.

The eighth variation will be described. When a certain viewer operation regarding the cursor movement in the second program guide is acknowledged the cursor displaying unit may allow program frames of programs programmed for recording to be successively selected by the cursor. According to this variation the viewer can efficiently select the program programmed to be recorded in the second program guide.

The ninth variation will be described. In the first form of the base technology the popularity ranking of the programs is determined in the information processing apparatus . In a variation the information management server may determine the popularity ranking of the programs across the entire attributes of viewers and the popularity ranking for each viewer attribute. In this case the indicator acquisition unit of the information processing apparatus may acquire the popularity ranking as the indicator from the information management server . The popularity determination unit may directly output the popularity ranking thus acquired to the data processing unit .

The tenth variation will be described. In the first form of the base technology the history of popularity ranking is stored in the information processing apparatus . In a variation the history of indicators originating the popularity ranking may be stored in the information management server . For example the information management server may further be provided with a tally history storage unit which may store the tally result of viewing status as a tally history associating the result with date and time information. In acquiring the popularity ranking of programs broadcast in the past in the information processing apparatus e.g. in playing back a recorded content the information processing apparatus may acquire the tally history from the information management server to determine the popularity ranking in the past.

The eleventh variation will be described. In the first form of the base technology the program information acquisition unit acquires EPG information from the tuner . In a variation the program information acquisition unit may acquire EPG information from an information provider server on the Internet via the Internet . Further the program information acquisition unit may acquire EPG information from the tuner and acquire program related information that should be appended to the EPG information and displayed in the electronic program guide via the Internet .

The twelfth variation will be described. The functions of the information processing apparatus described in the first base technology may be implemented in the tuner . In this case the tuner may include the CPU GPU main memory hard disk drive network card and interface shown in . The functions shown in may be implemented by the tuner.

As a thirteenth variation an explanation is given of a display mode of a first program guide . shows an exemplary first program guide as displayed in the present exemplary variation. The exemplary first program guide as displayed in the figure corresponds to the one shown in and like signs represent like constituting elements that are identical to or correspond to those shown in . A displayed station indicator shows broadcasting stations being displayed on the image display screen . Program frames and also generically referred to as a program frame of the first program guide each include a view count field a recording count field a view count change field a recording count change field and a progress indicator .

The progress indicator shows the degree of progress of each station program at the current moment. The view count field shows the number of users viewing each station program. The recording count field shows the number of users recording each station program. As described later the number of viewing users in the view count field and the number of recording users in the recording count field are updated periodically for every passing minute in the present exemplary variation and hereinafter . The view count change field shows a difference in the number of the viewing users before and after the update i.e. the value of an increase decrease in the number of the viewing users associated with the update. The recording count change field shows the value of an increase decrease in the number of the recording users associated with the update. The respective values of the view count change field and the recording count change field are also updated in accordance with the update of the view count field and the recording count field .

An explanation is now given of a configuration for achieving the first program guide described above. In addition to the configuration shown in the form of the first base technology the information management server is further provided with an executed recording tally unit for counting the number of users executing recordings. The executed recording tally unit acquires the program ID of the program that the viewer is currently recording from each of the plurality of information processing apparatuses on a periodical basis and counts the number of recordings being executed. Therefore the viewing status communicating unit of the information processing apparatus transmits the program ID of the program being recorded by the recording processing unit to the information management server on a periodical basis.

The indicator acquisition unit of the information processing apparatus acquires as a live indicator the number of the viewing users which is the number of users viewing each program currently being broadcast and the number of the recording users which is the number of users recording each program on a periodical basis from the information management server . The popularity determination unit outputs the number of the viewing users and the number of the recording users acquired by the indicator acquisition unit as it is as data indicating the degree of popularity.

The first program guide displaying unit displays the first program guide and the displayed station indicator over a program image being displayed on the image display screen in accordance with a user operation. The first program guide displaying unit sets the number of the viewing users in the view count field calculates the value of an increase decrease in the number of the viewing users before and after the setting and sets the value of the increase decrease in the view count change field . The first program guide displaying unit sets the number of the recording users in the recording count field calculates the value of an increase decrease in the number of the recording users before and after the setting and sets the value of the increase decrease in the recording count change field . The first program guide displaying unit repeats a process of updating the view count field the recording count field the view count change field and the recording count change field every time a new live indicator is acquired by the indicator acquisition unit that is every passing minute.

When the increase decrease in the number of the viewing users is at least a predetermined threshold e.g. plus minus 500 people the first program guide displaying unit highlights the view count change field more than usual as shown in the program frames and in . Similarly when the increase decrease in the number of the recording users is at least a predetermined threshold e.g. plus minus 100 people the first program guide displaying unit highlights the recording count change field more than usual as shown in the program frame in .

As a reference for highlighting in the program frame an increase decrease in the number is used in here. However the first program guide displaying unit may calculate an increase decrease rate and may highlight a field under the condition that the increase decrease rate shows a change of at least a predetermined threshold. Alternatively the first program guide displaying unit may highlight a field when either one or both of the increase decrease in the number and the increase decrease rate are at least the respective predetermined threshold. Alternatively the first program guide displaying unit may highlight a field when either one or both of an increase in the number and an increase rate are at least the respective predetermined threshold or may highlight a field when either one or both of a decrease in the number and a decrease rate are at least the respective predetermined threshold. It is obvious that either an increase or decrease may be used as a requirement.

The first program guide displaying unit may suggest a user a significant increase decrease in the number of the viewing users or the number of the recording users with an effect by displaying a predetermined image or a video image instead of the highlighting in a corresponding program frame . Further with regard to the number of the viewing users and the number of the recording users the increase decrease in the number and or the increase decrease rate may be calculated by the information management server and the information processing apparatus may directly use the increase decrease in the number and or the increase decrease rate.

The first program guide displaying unit sets a progress indicator for a program shown in each program frame . In other words a progress indicator is also set to a program not being viewed by a user or a program in a program frame not being selected by a cursor not shown . This allows the user to more easily overlook the degree of progress of a program including a program that is not being viewed or selected. Thus the user can effectively select a program more easily. The first program guide displaying unit may display the progress indicator while overlaying the indicator on other displays in the program frame and on the program image. In other words the first program guide displaying unit may overlay display the progress indicator on another display object.

The display mode for presenting the degree of progress of a program to a user is not limited to the progress indicator which is in graph form. The first program guide displaying unit may set a different display mode e.g. a different background color to the program frame according to the degree of progress of a program. For example a ratio of displaying a first background color and a second background color of the program frame may be changed sequentially as a progress indicator according to the degree of progress of a program or the ratio of one of the background colors may be increased progressively as the program progresses. Obviously the first program guide displaying unit may also overlay display the progress indicator obtained in this case on another display object. The first program guide displaying unit may display the progress indicator of a program frame that corresponds to a program being selected by the user that is a program being displayed on the image display screen in a mode that is different e.g. in a different color from that of the progress indicator that corresponds to another program not being selected.

When there is a change in the viewing status of the program in the first program guide displaying unit the first program guide displaying unit instantly reflects the change in the first program guide by updating the view count field of the program frame without waiting to acquire information from the information management server . More specifically when a program that is being viewed is switched to another program for example when the operation detection unit detects an operation of switching a program the first program guide displaying unit instantly decrements the view count field of the program frame for the program that had been selected until the switching of the program. The first program guide displaying unit instantly increments the view count field of the program frame that is newly selected.

Similarly when there is a change in the recording status of the program in the first program guide displaying unit the first program guide displaying unit instantly reflects the change in the first program guide by updating the recording count field of the program frame without waiting to acquire information from the information management server . More specifically when the recording of a program is started for example when the operation detection unit detects an operation of starting the recording or when the recording processing unit starts a recording process the first program guide displaying unit instantly increments the recording count field of the program frame of a program to be recorded. When the recording of the program is ended the first program guide displaying unit instantly decrements the recording count field of the program frame of the program that had been recorded.

According to the exemplary variation the number of the viewing users and the number of the recording users of each program are displayed in the first program guide . Therefore a user can more easily know the degree of popularity of each program specifically. Since an increase decrease in the number is displayed the user can more easily know the transition in popularity of each program specifically. Also the user can more easily know almost in real time a program with a drastic increase or decrease in the number of viewing users or the number of the recording users in other words a program having a drastic change in its popularity. As described above the user friendliness for a program selection as well as the interest in viewing the program can be increased by allowing the trend of other viewers to be more easily known in addition to simply allowing a program image to be viewed. For example notifying a user of the presence of a program with increasing popularity arouses a user s desire to view the program preventing the user from missing the program to be viewed.

The posting site server puts a posting site on the Internet that allows for an instant posting of a feedback comment typically short sentences of about 100 characters and also referred to as a tweet of the moment regarding the content of a program that is provided by a viewer viewing the program through the viewer s terminal. To a posted comment a tag hereinafter also referred to as a hashtag may be added by a poster viewer which is for grouping with other comments and more specifically used as a search keyword for searching a plurality of posted comments all at once.

Upon the receipt of a comment acquisition request in other words a search request specifying a specific hashtag the posting site server supplies all at once a client originating a search request with data of at least one comment to which the hashtag is added. Such a posting site includes for example Twitter trademark or registered trademark .

The information processing apparatus of the second base technology provides a new viewing experience to a user by acquiring comments posted to the posting site server by various viewers and then presenting the comments to the user viewing a program being currently broadcast. is a block diagram showing the functional configuration of the information processing apparatus of . In addition to the configuration stated previously in the first base technology the information processing apparatus further includes a comment storage unit a comment processing unit a comment displaying unit and a regional information displaying unit .

In the second base technology it is assumed that program information acquired by the program information acquisition unit and then stored in the program information storage unit includes a service ID and an event ID which are predetermined as identification information for uniquely identifying a single program and information indicating the genre and category e.g. news variety sports etc. to which the program contents belongs. It is also assumed that the data storage unit stores in advance information indicating a user s viewing region that corresponds to at least one specific broadcasting station as the attribute information of the user.

The fixed comment storage unit is a storage area adapted to store a fixed comment which is a prepared comment for supporting the creation of a comment to be posted to the posting site server . shows the configuration of data stored in the fixed comment storage unit . The fixed comment storage unit stores the information indicating a plurality of types of program genres and categories for example news variety sports etc. and fixed comments expected to be appropriate for respective genres in association with each other. These fixed comments are also said to be typical comments that are often posted according to a program genre. A program name in a fixed comment of the figure is dynamically replaced with the name of a program e.g. 7 o clock news etc. being viewed by a user at the time of creating a posting comment as described later.

The comment acquisition unit transmits a comment acquisition request to the posting site server by using as a search key a hashtag identified in accordance with a user operation and then acquires the data of at least one comment to which the hashtag is added from the posting site server . The comment acquisition unit then stores the acquired comment data in the acquired comment storage unit .

By transmitting the data of a comment created by a user on a comment creating screen described later to the posting site server the comment posting unit registers the comment with the posting site server . In posting the comment created by the user the comment posting unit adds to the comment a predetermined hashtag that indicates software hereinafter also referred to as program viewing software which is installed in the information processing apparatus so as to provide a program viewing function and a predetermined hashtag that indicates a broadcasting station being viewed by the user.

The comment acquisition unit and the comment posting unit may perform the above processes by calling an application programming interface API for acquiring a comment and an API for posting a comment from among Web application programming interfaces WebAPI put by the posting site server .

Referring to a plurality of comments stored in the acquired comment storage unit the tag tally unit counts the number of hashtags added to each comment according to the type of the hashtags. In other words the number of appearances of each hashtag in the plurality of comments is counted. In other words the number of comments to which each of a plurality of types of hashtags e.g. soccer and kokkai is added is calculated for each hashtag type. It can be said that the comments stored in the acquired comment storage unit are acquired from the posting site server based on a user operation a screen selection operation etc. and are displayed based on the user operation.

The tag tally unit counts the number of hashtags of a comment posted within the past hour prior to the time at which the number is counted in other words the posting time and date of a comment are within the past hour of the time at which the number is counted . The tag tally unit may start a process of counting hashtags by using as a trigger the detection of an operation of displaying an information screen or the detection that a certain period of time e.g. ten minutes has passed.

The first comment displaying unit displays an all TL screen described later that displays all tweet lists hereinafter written as TL on the display . A tweet list of the second base technology means a user interface that displays comments posted to the posting site server and is a concept including a so called timeline in which the posted comments are arranged in chronological order. The second comment displaying unit displays a channel TL screen described later that displays a comment related to a specific broadcasting station and a hashtag TL screen described later that displays a comment related to a specific hashtag.

The cursor displaying unit displays a cursor for a user to select a specific area hereinafter also referred to as an area and a specific comment on the respective TL screens displayed by the first comment displaying unit and the second comment displaying unit . When depression of an up or down switch of a directional button of the controller is detected by the operation detection unit the cursor displaying unit may move the cursor over a plurality of areas and comments.

The comment element selecting unit selects a specific element character string in an area or comment focused by the cursor in accordance with the user operation to the controller . The element character string is typically a character string that is different from the main text of a comment and is for example a URL of a webpage or a character string of a hashtag. When depression of a left or right switch of the directional button of the controller is detected by the operation detection unit the comment element selecting unit may successively select an individual hashtag added to the comment focused by the cursor and highlight the selected hashtag in a predetermined mode.

The creation screen displaying unit displays on the display a tweet menu screen described later for selecting the type of a comment posting operation and a comment creating screen described later for creating a comment for posting. The creation screen displaying unit displays a software keyboard in other words a screen keyboard for entering characters for a comment on the comment creating screen.

The comment creation supporting unit identifies the genre of a program a user is viewing by referring to the program information stored in the program information storage unit . The comment creation supporting unit then selects a fixed comment corresponding to the genre of the program the user is viewing in accordance with a correspondence relationship between program genres and fixed comments stored in the fixed comment storage unit .

The input comment setting unit sets a character which is selected by the user through the software keyboard displayed on the comment creating screen in a comment creating area of the comment creating screen. When a fixed comment is selected by the user the input comment setting unit automatically sets the selected fixed comment in the comment creating area.

When the display of an information screen described later is instructed by the user the frequently appearing tag displaying unit identifies the top eight hashtags hereinafter also referred to as frequently appearing tags with respect to the number of appearances of respective hashtags counted by the tag tally unit . The frequently appearing tag displaying unit displays each of the frequently appearing tags in a frequently appearing tag display area of the information screen along with the number of appearances in a plurality of comments.

Referring back to when the display of the information screen described later is instructed by the user the regional information displaying unit acquires the number of viewing users which is the number of users viewing a program of each broadcasting station in each region from the indicator acquisition unit . Therefore the viewer tally unit of the information management server acquires the information of the program the user is viewing along with the information indicating the broadcasting station from the information processing apparatus and counts the number of the viewing users for each broadcasting station in each region. The indicator acquisition unit of the information processing apparatus acquires the number of the viewing users of each broadcasting station in each region and provides the number of the viewing users to the regional information displaying unit . The regional information displaying unit displays in a broadcasting station specific viewing status displaying area in the information screen the number of the viewing users of each broadcasting station in each region.

The first comment displaying unit acquires a comment to which the hashtag of each broadcasting station is added that is stored in the acquired comment storage unit . As the number of posted comments to which a hashtag of a certain broadcasting station is added increases the first comment displaying unit determines the scroll speed in displaying the posted comment of the broadcasting station to be faster. In other words the first comment displaying unit determines scroll speed such that the scroll speed for the posted comments for a broadcasting station with relatively more posted comments is faster than the scroll speed for the posted comments for a broadcasting station with relatively less posted comments S . For example the first comment displaying unit may store a correspondence relationship between the range of the number of posted comments 0 to 20 posted comments 20 to 40 posted comments . . . 80 to 100 posted comments and scroll speed in advance and may determine the scroll speed for the posted comments for each broadcasting station in reference to the correspondence relationship. The first comment displaying unit displays an all TL screen for the scroll display of the posted comments for each broadcasting station in parallel with one another S .

Upon the detection that a predetermined waiting period e.g. one minute has passed the comment acquisition unit acquires the posted comments for each broadcasting station from the posting site server again not shown in . In the second base technology it is assumed that a maximum of 100 posted comments are acquired for each broadcasting station in reverse chronological order of the posting time and date. The first comment displaying unit sequentially changes the scroll speed for the posted comments according to the transition of the number of comments acquired by the comment acquisition unit . In other words the scroll speed is decreased as the number of comments decreases and the scroll speed is increased as the number of comments increases. Using a user account in a posting site that is recorded in advance in the information processing apparatus the comment acquisition unit acquires a comment that is associated with the user account in the posting site server .

The first comment displaying unit displays the comments posted for a program being broadcast by each broadcasting station in parallel with one another in an area for the broadcasting station provided in a broadcasting station specific comment area . In other words the first comment displaying unit displays the comments posted for a program being broadcast by a certain broadcasting station independently from the comment posted for a program being broadcast by another broadcasting station.

This allows real time comments from other viewers provided for a program the user is viewing to be sequentially presented to the user. Also real time comments from viewers provided for programs the user is not viewing can be also presented to the user at the same time. Viewer s comments tweets are true opinions of viewers that cannot be learned from information shown in program guides. Therefore a user can check both comments for a program the user is viewing and comments for other programs at the same time so as to select a program to view. An innovative viewing experience can be provided to a user that makes the user aware of a loose connection with other viewers by sequentially presenting the user the thoughts of the moment of people viewing various programs at around the same time.

The first comment displaying unit displays the comments posted for a program of each broadcasting station in an area provided for the broadcasting station in the broadcasting station specific comment area while sequentially scrolling the posted comments to the left in reverse chronological order of the posting time and date at a speed that corresponds to the number of postings. This allows the user to intuitively know programs with a large number of comments which are typically programs for which many viewers are excited and also supports the user to select a program for which many viewers are excited.

The first comment displaying unit excludes a hashtag and a URL character strings that are added to each comment from being displayed in other words hides the hashtag and the URL character strings when displaying a posted comment. For example after acquiring a comment from the acquired comment storage unit the first comment displaying unit may delete hashtag and URL character strings from the comment so as to display the comment. More specifically upon the detection of a predetermined character string e.g. that indicates the start of a hashtag in a comment character string the first comment displaying unit may delete a part of the comment character string that starts with the predetermined character string and ends with a predetermined character string e.g. a blank character or a space that indicates the end of the hashtag. Similarly upon the detection of a predetermined character string e.g. http that indicates the start of a URL the first comment displaying unit may delete a part of the comment character string that starts with the predetermined character string and ends with a predetermined character string e.g. a blank character or a space that indicates the end of the URL.

The broadcasting station specific comment area includes a plurality of broadcasting station areas. Although a comment display area of each broadcasting station is relatively small only the main text of each comment can be displayed according to this form. This allows a comment to be efficiently displayed while keeping the essential part of the comment.

The first comment displaying unit acquires the number of viewers of a program being broadcast by each broadcasting station from the indicator acquisition unit and displays the acquired number of the viewers in a comment display area of the broadcasting station. The first comment displaying unit may highlight the area of a broadcasting station which corresponds to a program being viewed by the user being displayed on the image display screen in a predetermined mode such as displaying the area in a different background color from that of other areas. This supports the user to easily distinguish the program currently being viewed from other programs.

The first comment displaying unit scroll displays a comment associated with a user account in a user comment area . An information area is an area selected to transition the screen to an information screen described later . A current software tag area is an area selected to transition the screen to a comment to which a hashtag which indicates a program viewing software is added that is a comment display screen regarding the program viewing software.

The cursor displaying unit displays a cursor for selecting any one of the areas of respective broadcasting stations in the broadcasting station specific comment area the user comment area the broadcasting station specific comment area and the user comment area on the all TL screen . The user can display an arbitrary screen by selecting a specific area by operating the cursor via the controller .

Referring back to when any of the broadcasting station areas in the broadcasting station specific comment area of the all TL screen is selected by the user Y in S the comment acquisition unit transmits a comment acquisition request to the posting site server by using as a search key a hashtag that is preset to the broadcasting station hereinafter also referred to as a selected broadcasting station selected by the user. The comment acquisition unit then acquires a comment to which the hashtag of the selected broadcasting station is added from the posting site server S and stores the comment in the acquired comment storage unit S .

The second comment displaying unit acquires a comment to which the hashtag of the selected broadcasting station is added that is stored in the acquired comment storage unit . The second comment displaying unit then displays a channel TL screen that displays a list of comments in the order of the posting time and date S . The channel TL screen is a so called timeline related to the selected broadcasting station. When a certain period of time e.g. one minute has passed Y in S the step goes back to S and a comment is acquired again. The second comment displaying unit updates a tweet list timeline on the channel TL screen. In other words when a new comment is acquired by the comment acquisition unit the second comment displaying unit displays the new comment on the channel TL screen while hiding the old comment.

When a user operation to the controller is detected during the display of the channel TL screen the cursor displaying unit displays a cursor . The cursor is moved in a vertical direction for each comment in accordance with an up down operation to the directional button of the controller . The comment element selecting unit successively leaves the hashtag and the URL character string selected that are described in a comment focused by the cursor in accordance with a left right operation to the directional button of the controller . When a predetermined operation e.g. depression of a circular button by the user is detected while the hashtag is being selected the second comment displaying unit displays a hashtag TL screen that includes a tweet list related to the hashtag.

Referring back to when an operation of moving the cursor is detected Y in S before the certain period of time has passed on the channel TL screen N in S the second comment displaying unit temporarily stops the update of the timeline on the channel TL screen S . In accordance with a cursor operation by the user the cursor displaying unit moves the cursor and the second comment displaying unit scroll displays the timeline S . For example when a previously posted comment that is hidden on the channel TL screen is selected by the cursor the second comment displaying unit scrolls the timeline for each comment and redisplays the comment selected by the cursor .

When no operation of moving the cursor is detected before a certain period of time e.g. 30 seconds has passed Y in S the cursor displaying unit hides the cursor and the second comment displaying unit resumes the update of the timeline on the channel TL screen S . When the operation of moving the cursor is detected within the certain period of time N in S the step goes back to S. When there is no operation of moving the cursor at all N in S S to S are skipped. The same operations as those in S to S also apply to the display of a hashtag TL screen except that a specific hashtag is used as a search key.

As described above the latest posted comment can be presented to the user by sequentially acquiring the latest posted comment and then by sequentially updating the channel TL screen . On the other hand while a cursor operation a comment selection operation etc. is given by the user the update of the channel TL screen is prevented so that the operation by the user is prevented from being interfered by the update of the channel TL screen . Generally compared to a mouse of a PC etc. there is more constraint on a selection operation and the degree of interference to a user operation by the update of the channel TL screen is larger in the controller e.g. a game controller that operates the information processing apparatus . Therefore compared to when a mouse is used as operation means the user friendliness can be greatly improved by preventing the update of the channel TL screen during an operation by the user.

Referring back to when any one of the selections a tweet citation and fixed comment is selected on the tweet menu screen the creation screen displaying unit displays a comment creating screen S . When a fixed comment is selected on the tweet menu screen Y in S the input comment setting unit automatically sets the selected fixed comment in the comment creating area of the comment creating screen prior to an operation of entering a comment by the user S . When a fixed comment is not selected N in S S is skipped. Upon the receipt of a request for entering a comment in the comment creating area from the user the creation screen displaying unit displays on the comment creating screen an image showing a keyboard in which various keys are arranged S . When a key of the keyboard is selected by the user the input comment setting unit sets a character that corresponds to the key in the comment creating area S .

The cursor displaying unit displays a cursor on the comment creating screen . When the user presses down a predetermined button e.g. a circular button after focusing on the comment creating area by the cursor the creation screen displaying unit displays a software keyboard. The user enters an arbitrary character in the comment creating area by operating the cursor to select an arbitrary key on the software keyboard.

As described above a fixed comment appropriate for a program that is being viewed can be extracted from a plurality of fixed comments and presented to the user by storing a correspondence relationship between program genres and fixed comments in advance so as to select a fixed comment that corresponds to the genre of the program the user is viewing. Also by automatically setting the fixed comment selected by the user in the comment creating area user s burden in creating a comment can be reduced. Such a configuration is particularly suitable for when a software keyboard is used as means for entering characters. In other words when a software keyboard instead of a hardware keyboard is used in entering characters user s burden in entering characters is generally increased. Therefore by allowing the user to select a fixed phrase the number of characters entered by the user can be reduced and the user s burden can be thus reduced greatly.

Referring back to when the posting button is pressed down on the comment creating screen Y in S the comment posting unit acquires a character string that is entered in the comment creating area. The comment posting unit then sets a final posting comment by adding to the character string hashtags indicating a program viewing software a broadcasting station of a program being displayed on the image display screen a service ID of the program and an event ID respectively. The comment posting unit registers the data of the final posting comment by transmitting the data to the posting site server S . When depression of the posting button is not detected N in S S and S are skipped. When an operation of displaying the tweet menu is not detected N in S S to S are skipped. When none of the broadcasting stations in the broadcasting station specific comment area is selected on the all TL screen N in S of S to S are skipped.

As described above by automatically setting an appropriate hashtag for a user viewing a program all the user needs to do is to enter the main text of a comment and the user s burden can be reduced. As described previously when a software keyboard is used as means for entering characters the user s burden can be further reduced.

When the information area is selected by the user on the all TL screen Y in S the tag tally unit refers to the data of comments posted within the past hour from among comments stored in the acquired comment storage unit so as to count the number of hashtags added to each comment according to a type of the hashtags and identifies the number of appearances of each hashtag S . In addition to displaying the information screen the frequently appearing tag displaying unit displays the top eight frequently appearing tags in a part of the area of the information screen along with the number of appearances thereof S . In addition to these the regional information displaying unit displays in a part of the area of the information screen the number of viewing users of each broadcasting station in each region S . A predetermined hashtag e.g. TVAA of etc. that indicates a broadcasting station is excluded from being counted by the tag tally unit or selected as a frequently appearing tag by the frequently appearing tag displaying unit .

Referring back to when a frequently appearing tag is selected on the information screen Y in S the comment acquisition unit transmits a comment acquisition request to the posting site server by using as a search key the frequently appearing tag selected by the user. The comment acquisition unit then acquires a comment to which the frequently appearing tag is added from the posting site server S . The second comment displaying unit displays a hashtag TL screen that displays a list of comments to which frequently appearing tags acquired by the comment acquisition unit are added in the order of the posting time and date S . When a frequently appearing tag is not selected by the user N in S S and S are skipped. When the information area is not selected on the all TL screen N in S S to S are skipped. When a live function is not selected to begin with N in S of S and all the subsequent steps are skipped.

As described above by displaying a frequently appearing tag of a posted comment that is acquired in accordance with a user operation a hashtag added to many comments can be presented to a user. For example regarding comments posted for a relay program of a soccer game there are often more comments to which a hashtag such as soccer is added than comments to which the hashtag of the broadcasting station is added. In other words displaying a timeline of comments to which a hashtag such as soccer is added is often more useful for a user than displaying a timeline of comments to which the hashtag of the broadcasting station is added. Presenting a user a frequently appearing tag allows a candidate for a hashtag which is useful to the user viewing a program to be presented supporting the user to reach a useful timeline. Since comments acquired from the posting site server in accordance with a user operation are the population for counting hashtags a frequently appearing tag related to comments the user is interested in can be efficiently presented to the user.

Described above is an explanation of the second form of the base technology. This form is intended to be illustrative only and it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that various modifications to constituting elements and processes could be developed and that such modifications are also within the scope of the second base technology. An exemplary variation of the second base technology is shown in the following.

A first exemplary variation is now described in detail. Although no particular reference is made in the above second base technology when the cursor displaying unit hides the cursor since no operation on the cursor is detected for a certain period of time on the channel TL screen the second comment displaying unit may gradually updates the timeline displayed at that point for each comment. For example the second comment displaying unit may hide the oldest comment in the timeline displayed at that point and add a new comment to be displayed which is posted subsequently to the latest comment in the timeline. The second comment displaying unit may successively display newly posted comments in the timeline by repeating the replacement. More specifically when comments are arranged in descending order of the posting time and date in the timeline the second comment displaying unit may gradually scroll up the comments from the display position of a cursor at the time the cursor is made hidden so as to successively display newly posted comments. According to this variation new comments are successively displayed starting from a comment selected by a user facilitating the user to find comments e.g. comments such as replies and citations that are related to the comment selected by the user. The variation can also facilitate the user to reselect a comment selected before a cursor is made hidden.

Further the second comment displaying unit may replace an old comment with a new comment in the timeline at a higher speed or scroll up the timeline at a higher speed as the number of comments that are periodically acquired by the comment acquisition unit increases. This variation allows the user to more easily know whether the number of comments posted for a program is large or small in an intuitive manner and also allows new comments to be more easily presented to the user in a quick manner.

A second exemplary variation is now described in detail. Although no particular reference is made in the above second base technology a plurality of genres may be assigned to each program with regard to program information stored in the program information storage unit . For example a genre news and a genre variety may be assigned to a talk show program. The fixed comment storage unit may store a plurality of genres in association with the same fixed comment. For example both the genre news and the genre variety may be associated with the same fixed comment that s funny. When the comment creation supporting unit selects a plurality of fixed comments which are all identical for a program to which a plurality of genres are assigned the creation screen displaying unit may hide either of the fixed comments on the tweet menu screen . According to this variation a situation can be prevented where a task of checking fixed comments by the user becomes unnecessarily complicated due to a plurality of identical fixed comments being displayed on the tweet menu screen and where the user s burden is increased as a result.

The BD recorder periodically acquires program information of terrestrial digital television broadcast BS broadcast and CS broadcast through a tuner not shown in . Then the BD recorder causes a predetermined display to display individual program guides. The BD recorder in the embodiment updates the program guides after every 12 hours. Therefore the BD recorder acquires program information through the tuner not shown at least once for every 12 hours.

As hereinafter described the information processing apparatus of the embodiment acquires program information stored by the BD recorders . However the information processing apparatus that provides program information to the information processing apparatus is not limited to any of the BD recorders . For example in place of the BD recorders a different program viewing apparatus or AV apparatus for example a television set an HDD recorder or a DVD recorder may naturally be connected to the information processing apparatus and provide program information to the information processing apparatus .

The first program information acquisition unit starts acquisition of program information in response to starting of the program viewing AP in the information processing apparatus . The first program information acquisition unit causes the tuner to successively select broadcasting waves of a plurality of broadcasting stations to successively acquire program information of the broadcasting stations for up to one week ahead of time and stores the program information into the program information storage unit . Here in the program information a program name a program summary and so forth are associated with a program ID. It is to be noted that the program ID is a combination of an ID service ID of 16 bits unique to a broadcasting station and an ID event ID of 16 bits unique to a program of the broadcasting station. When the first program information acquisition unit acquires program information of a certain program it stores the program information into the program information storage unit irrespective of whether or not the program ID of the program information is already stored in the program information storage unit . This is because it is intended for the first program information acquisition unit to normally acquire the latest program information.

Referring back to the second program information acquisition unit transmits a program information acquisition request in accordance with the XSRS protocol to the BD recorder to acquire program information stored in the BD recorder . Similarly to the information processing apparatus also each BD recorder acquires program information of the broadcasting stations for up to one week ahead of time and the second program information acquisition unit acquires the program information for the one week from the BD recorder . The second program information acquisition unit stores the program information acquired from the BD recorder into the program information storage unit in response to an acquisition situation of the program information by the first program information acquisition unit .

Therefore when the second program information acquisition unit acquires program information of a certain program and the program ID of the program information is already stored in the program information storage unit the second program information acquisition unit discards the program information without recording the program information into the program information storage unit . Also when a broad casting time and date indicated by the acquired program information and a broadcasting time and date indicated by the program information already stored in the program information storage unit overlap each other the second program information acquisition unit discards the acquired program information without recording the program information into the program information storage unit . Consequently also when a certain program is replaced by a different program or when a program summary to be presented in a program guide is subject to alteration the latest program information that reflects such alteration can be set to the second program guide.

It is to be noted that although the first program information acquisition unit in the present embodiment acquires only program information of terrestrial digital television broadcast the second program information acquisition unit acquires program information of BS broadcast and CS broadcast in addition to terrestrial digital television broadcast. Consequently the information processing apparatus can display program guides not only of terrestrial digital television broadcast but also of BS broadcast and CS broadcast. It is to be noted that where the first program information acquisition unit acquires program information of BS broadcast and CS broadcast also the program information may naturally be completed with program information acquired by the second program information acquisition unit .

The second program guide displaying unit causes the display to display a second program guide wherein program information stored in the program information storage unit is placed in a region having a channel broadcasting station axis and a time axis. schematically shows a second program guide. As shown in the figure the second program guide displaying unit causes a second program guide in which program information acquired by the first program information acquisition unit is completed with program information acquired by the second program information acquisition unit to be displayed. For example in within a time zone between 18 00 and 19 00 of the channel 01 program acquired by the first program information acquisition unit is reflected. On the other hand within a time zone between 19 00 and 20 00 a program summary of a program CCC acquired by the first program information acquisition unit is reflected. In this manner in the present embodiment a second program guide on which the latest program information is reflected and in which missing program information blank of program information is reduced can be presented to the viewer.

Further the second program guide displaying unit causes control icons to be displayed. If a terrestrial digital icon is selected by the viewer then the second program guide displaying unit causes a second program guide of terrestrial digital television broadcast to be displayed. If a BS icon or a CS icon is selected then the second program guide displaying unit causes a second program guide of BS broadcast or CS broadcast to be displayed. If a one week displaying icon is selected then the third program guide displaying unit hereinafter described causes a program guide hereinafter referred to as one week program guide in which program information of one broadcasting station over one week is shown on one screen to be displayed.

If a My program guide icon is selected then the second program guide displaying unit causes a My program guide to be displayed. The My program guide is a program guide by which program information of more than one broadcasting station selected in advance by the viewer from among a plurality of broadcasting stations that provide any of terrestrial digital television broadcast BS broadcast and CS broadcast is shown on one screen. For example if the second program guide displaying unit accepts a predetermined operation for adding a specific broadcasting station to the My program guide from the viewer then it may store the ID of the broadcasting station as a display target station for the My program guide. Then if the My program guide icon is selected then the second program guide displaying unit may acquire program information of the display target station on the My program guide from the program information storage unit and cause the program information to be displayed on the My program guide.

Now a hit program indicator of is described. The information management server in the embodiment further includes a programmed recording count totalization unit for totalizing the programmed recording count of programs. The programmed recording count totalization unit periodically acquires the program ID of programs programmed for recording by the viewer from a plurality of information processing apparatus and totalizes the program IDs. Therefore the viewing status communicating unit of the information processing apparatus periodically transmits the IDs of programs for which recording is programmed in its own apparatus to the information management server . The indicator acquisition unit of the information processing apparatus acquires the totalization value hereinafter referred to also as recording count of programmed recording counts of a plurality of programs stored in the program information storage unit from the information management server . The acquisition timing of the recording count is the timing of starting of the program viewing AP and the timing at which a predetermined period of time for example 20 minutes elapses.

The programmed recording count evaluation unit specifies those programs that exhibit comparatively high recording counts or in other words those programs whose recording count is relatively high in comparison with the other programs from among programs for one week stored in the program information storage unit as hit programs. In particular the programmed recording count evaluation unit calculates an arithmetic average and a standard deviation hereinafter referred to as of the recording values of the programs acquired by the indicator acquisition unit . Then the programmed recording count evaluation unit specifies those programs that satisfy recording count arithmetic average value 2 as hit programs and sets a hit program flag to the program information of the program information storage unit . If the distribution of the recording counts of the programs exhibits a normal distribution then those programs whose recording count is included in less than 3 from the top are specified as hit programs.

When program information is placed into the second program guide the second program guide displaying unit causes the hit program indicator to be additionally displayed for program information associated with the hit program flag in the program information storage unit . Consequently those programs whose programmed recording count is comparatively high can be indicated to the viewer and information for supporting program selection or decision making in programming for recording of the viewer can be presented.

Referring back to the third program guide displaying unit causes a program guide on which program information broadcast in one channel broadcasting station is placed in a region having a date axis partitioned into lanes for seven days and a time axis to be displayed as a one week program guide on the display . In particular the third program guide displaying unit acquires program information for one week associated with the service ID of the broadcasting station selected by the user using the cursor from within the program information stored in the program information storage unit from the program information storage unit . Then the third program guide displaying unit places the program information indicative of a specific broadcasting date and time into a region corresponding to the broadcasting date and time from among regions each specified by a date and a time in the one week program guide.

The cursor displaying unit causes the cursor for selection of a specific program to be displayed for the confirmation of the program contents or for programming for recording also in the one week program guide. When the cursor displaying unit accepts a moving operation of the cursor in the vertical direction time axis direction on the one week program guide it places the cursor into a state in which a different program to be broadcast in a time zone different from that of the program selected till then is selected.

Also schematically shows a one week program guide. The figure shows a state in which the cursor of moves in the vertical direction and selects a program to be displayed first on June 20. When a moving operation of the cursor in the time axis direction on the one week program guide which particularly is a moving operation from a broadcasting program on a certain date to another broadcasting program on the next date is accepted the third program guide displaying unit causes the broadcasting program on the next date to be displayed in a lane same as the lane in which the broadcasting program on the certain date is displayed. When a moving operation of the cursor in the time axis direction on the one week program guide which particularly is a moving operation from a broadcasting program on a certain date to another broadcasting program on the next date is accepted the cursor displaying unit places the cursor into a state in which the cursor selects the broadcasting program on the next date at the same position on the date axis without moving the cursor in the direction of the date axis.

Further when a moving operation of the cursor in the time axis direction on the one week program guide which particularly is a moving operation from a broadcasting program on a certain date to another broadcasting program on the next date is accepted the third program guide displaying unit changes the date of the date mark displayed in the lane in which the cursor is positioned to the date of the next day. In other words the third program guide displaying unit changes over the date mark till then of the lane in which the cursor is positioned to the date mark that indicates the date of the next day. The third program guide displaying unit changes also the dates of the date marks displayed in a corresponding relationship with the other lanes to the dates of the individual next days.

On the one week program guide the user can confirm program information on the next date only by operating the cursor in the vertical direction time axis direction . Thus the necessity for the user to carry out an operation in the horizontal direction date axis direction in order to confirm program information of the next date is eliminated. Further since the display position of the cursor namely the position at which the user is to look in the program guide need not be changed very much the program guide which reduces the burden on the user and is convenient in use to the user can be implemented. Further by changing the date indicated by the date mark in response to the movement of the cursor in the vertical direction even if a program of a different broadcasting date is selected by the movement of the cursor the broadcasting date of the program can be recognized readily by the user.

Although an example wherein the cursor is moved in the downward direction to advance the broadcasting date is described above the foregoing description applies similarly also to where the cursor is moved upwardly to date back the broadcasting date. For example when a moving operation of the cursor in the time axis direction on the one week program guide which particularly is a moving operation from a broadcasting program on a certain date to another broadcasting program on the preceding date is accepted the third program guide displaying unit causes the broadcasting program on the preceding date to be displayed in a lane same as the lane in which the broadcasting program on the certain date is displayed. When a moving operation of the cursor in the time axis direction on the one week program guide which particularly is a moving operation from a broadcasting program on a certain date to another broadcasting program on the preceding date is accepted the cursor displaying unit places the cursor into a state in which the cursor selects the broadcasting program on the preceding date at the same position on the date axis without moving the cursor in the direction of the date axis. Further the third program guide displaying unit changes the date of the date mark displayed in the lane in which the cursor is positioned to the preceding date.

If the movement of the cursor does not cross a broadcasting date N in S then S is skipped. If the movement of the cursor is not a movement in the vertical direction N in S then S and S are skipped. If a moving operation of the cursor is not detected N in S then the processes in the steps beginning with S are skipped. If a one week program guide is not selected as yet N in S then the processes in the steps beginning with S are skipped. If a second program guide is not displayed as yet N in S then the processes in the steps beginning with S are skipped.

If the program guide icon is selected on the portal screen of Y in S then the second program guide displaying unit causes a second program list in which program information stored in the program information storage unit is set to be displayed S . Together with this the programmed recording count evaluation unit specifies hit programs based on the recording values of the programs and the second program guide displaying unit adds the hit program indicator to the hit programs in the second program guide S . If the program guide icon is not selected N in S then S and S are skipped. If the program viewing AP is not started N in S then the succeeding processes are skipped and the flow of the present figure is ended.

Described above is an explanation of the present invention based on the embodiment. The embodiment is intended to be illustrative only and it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that various modifications to constituting elements and processes could be develop and that such modifications are also within the scope of the present invention.

Although not specifically mentioned in the description of the embodiment the program information placed in the first program guide by the first program guide displaying unit is program information stored by the program information storage unit and is obtained by completing program information acquired by the first program information acquisition unit with program information acquired by the second program information acquisition unit . This similarly applies also to the program information placed into the one week program guide by the third program guide displaying unit . Accordingly not only the second program guide but also the first program guide and the one week program guide on which the latest program information is reflected and in which missing program information is reduced can be presented to the viewer.

In the embodiment described above program information acquired by the first program information acquisition unit is stored into the program information storage unit preferentially to program information acquired by the second program information acquisition unit . As a modification both of the program information may be stored into the program information storage unit and program information to be placed into a program guide may be selected by the side by which the program guide is produced. In particular the first program guide displaying unit second program guide displaying unit and third program guide displaying unit may first place program information acquired by the first program information acquisition unit into a program guide and then place when a region in which no program information is placed remains in the program guide program information acquired by the second program information acquisition unit into the region.

Optional combinations of the aforementioned embodiment and exemplary variations will also be within the scope of the present invention. New modes of practicing the invention created by combinations will provide the advantages of the embodiment and variations combined.

It will be obvious to those skilled in the art that the function to be achieved by each constituent requirement described in the claims may be achieved by each constituting element shown in the embodiment and the variations or by a combination of the constituting elements.

The present invention can be applied to an information processing apparatus by which an electronic program guide is displayed.

