---

title: Planar optical waveguide with core of low-index-of-refraction interrogation medium
abstract: An apparatus for illuminating a sample includes a planar waveguide. The planar waveguide includes a first substrate, including a first outer surface and a first inner surface, and a second substrate, including a second outer surface and a second inner surface. The first and second inner surfaces of the first and second substrates, respectively, are spaced apart from each other and partly define a volume for confining the sample therein. The apparatus also includes a light source for providing light directed toward the planar waveguide, such that the light is optically coupled to and contained within the planar waveguide between the outer surfaces of the first and second substrates, while illuminating at least a portion of the sample confined within the volume.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08606066&OS=08606066&RS=08606066
owner: MBio Diagnostics, Inc.
number: 08606066
owner_city: Boulder
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121204
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 942 234 filed 9 Nov. 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 883 724 filed Sep. 16 2010 entitled PLANAR OPTICAL WAVEGUIDE WITH CORE OF LOW INDEX OF REFRACTION INTERROGATION MEDIUM which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 617 535 filed on Nov. 12 2009 entitled WAVEGUIDE WITH INTEGRATED LENS which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 156 586 filed on Mar. 2 2009 entitled WAVEGUIDE WITH INTEGRATED LENS. All of the above identified applications are incorporated by reference in their entireties into the present application.

This research was funded in part by government support under the U.S. Department of Commerce National Institute of Standards NIST Advanced Technology Program ATP award number 70NANB7H7053. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

Fluorescently labeled probes provide a convenient method of characterizing the content of biological samples. By tailoring the binding chemistry of a fluorescent probe high specificity can be achieved for detection of complex molecules such as RNA DNA proteins and cellular structures. Since fluorophores typically absorb and re emit Stokes shifted radiation regardless of being bound or unbound to a species to be detected the bound and unbound fluorophores must be separated.

One common method to separate the bound fluorophores from the unbound fluorophores relies on spatial localization of the fluorescently labeled species. For example in a sandwich immunoassay a surface is chemically treated to bind a species to be detected to that surface. The fluorescent probes then attach to the species that are bound to the surface. Unbound fluorophores can then be removed from the system with a wash step.

Background fluorescence can be further reduced if the excitation light can be confined to the surface. Total internal reflection fluorescence TIRF is one method of reducing background fluorescence. In general when light propagates from one medium to another a portion of the light will be reflected at the interface. If the light is propagating into a material with a lower index of optical refraction however all of the light will be reflected if the angle at which the beam is incident on the surface is greater than the critical angle relative to the surface normal . In the lower index material the light intensity exponentially decays with distance from the surface. This exponentially decaying field known as an evanescent field has a characteristic decay length on the order of 100 nanometers to 1 micrometer for visible light. The light of the evanescent field will therefore only excite fluorophores that are localized at the surface.

In a simplified implementation TIRF is performed with a laser beam reflecting once from the surface. This is the basis of well established TIRF microscopy and other biosensing techniques. By confining the laser beam inside a waveguide however multiple reflections can be realized and larger areas can be illuminated. Several waveguide geometries are possible each having certain tradeoffs.

Single mode planar waveguides also called thin film waveguides or integrated optical waveguides confine light into a small cross sectional area with the thin dimension smaller than the wavelength of propagating light. The advantage of single mode waveguides is that significantly stronger evanescent fields are generated. A disadvantage of single mode waveguides is that for efficient light coupling they typically require a prism or grating with precise alignment tolerances. In addition single mode planar waveguides are expensive to manufacture because the guiding layer is typically a thin film with strict thickness tolerances deposited on a substrate. In contrast a multimode planar waveguide is substantially easier to couple a laser beam to and simpler to construct than single mode planar waveguides. For example a standard 1 millimeter thick microscope slide makes an effective waveguide into which light can be coupled through the edge of the slide. Additionally dimensions for multimode waveguides are compatible with current plastic injection molding techniques.

For a fluorescence based assay system a uniform evanescent field is desired in the detection region. By definition the strength of the evanescent field is uniform along the direction of light propagation for a single mode planar waveguide neglecting scattering losses and absorption inside the waveguide . For a disposable clinical device however cost robustness and ease of use are of similar importance. By adjusting input coupling to a multimode waveguide uniformity and field strength of the evanescent field can be optimized.

While each individual mode in a multimode waveguide has a uniform intensity along the direction of propagation a distribution of modes will be excited when coupling to a multimode waveguide this distribution of modes will constructively and destructively interfere on the surface and lead to a spatially varying field strength. When the thickness of the waveguide is much larger than the wavelength of light the mode structure of the waveguide can be neglected and the intensity in the waveguide can be treated as a conventional diffracting beam that totally internally reflects from the two surfaces of the waveguide and interferes with neighboring reflections.

A variation on coupling scheme is illustrated by coupling scheme . In coupling scheme a laser beam focused by a cylindrical lens is incident on the edge of a waveguide with an appropriate angle such that a central ray of laser beam inside the waveguide impinges on the surface near the critical angle for TIR to maximize the evanescent field strength. A compromise between field strength and uniformity may be made by the choice of focusing optics. If a nearly collimated beam is used to achieve high field intensity by operating near the critical angle for TIR the beam must make many reflections within the waveguide before the surface intensity becomes sufficiently uniform thus requiring a longer waveguide. If the beam is highly focused however then the surface intensity normalizes in very few reflections but a significant amount of power is contained in rays propagating outside the critical angle and leads to reduced evanescent field strength down the length of the waveguide.

Precise alignment of a cylindrical lens such as lenses and relative to the input face of a waveguide such as waveguides and respectively must be made in order to have a laser beam focused on the input face. One proposed solution to this problem is illustrated by a coupling scheme . In coupling scheme a lens is incorporated with a waveguide as a single optical component made for example by bonding the lens element to the planar waveguide or by molding a single optical component. While this allows the focus of lens to be precisely distanced from the edge of waveguide careful alignment of a laser beam relative to lens of waveguide must still be made to couple beam to waveguide . For applications requiring repeated placement of a waveguide component relative to the light source it is highly desirable for the light coupling to be relatively insensitive to misalignment.

In practical applications the penetration depth of the evanescent field usually is less than a wavelength of the incident light. This aspect is an advantage in some applications as the evanescent field can serve as a mechanism to illuminate only a volume of interest e.g. a thin layer in the lower refractive index medium proximate to the waveguide surface. On the other hand when the object of interest such as a cell or the bulk of a solution extends substantially beyond the penetration depth of the evanescent wave evanescent illumination can be less effective than floodlight type illumination.

A subfield of integrated optofluidics is concerned with the development of methods for using optical waveguides to illuminate extended liquid media. Most of the developed methods involve the containment of a liquid sample by other liquid and or solid materials thereby effectively creating a waveguide for illuminating the liquid sample. Most TIR based designs involve surrounding the liquid sample with media of lower index of refraction than that of the liquid sample itself. It is then theoretically possible for light to be guided in the liquid sample by TIR at the interface between the high refractive index liquid and the lower refractive index surroundings. However in practice waveguiding in a liquid sample contained in another material is difficult due to the fact that common liquids have lower refractive indices than common solids for example water has a refractive index of approximately 1.33 while most solid materials have an index of refraction of 1.4 or more. Consequently a majority of the TIR waveguide designs involve using either high refractive index i.e. high n liquids or more exotic low refractive index i.e. low n solids.

In interference based optofluidic waveguides light is confined to a liquid core by reflection from surrounding materials including two or more layers of higher index materials combined to result in a lower effective refractive index for the surrounding media. Some interference based optofluidic waveguides include photonic crystals such as multiple alternating layers of materials of different indices of refraction

Embodiments disclosed below allow light to be coupled to a planar waveguide providing a strong evanescent field for sample illumination while eliminating or greatly reducing inadvertent misalignment by a user. The various embodiments further allow facile tuning of the internal propagation angle inside the waveguide providing simple adjustment of evanescent field strength. Another embodiment also provides apparatus for performing assays involving placement of a fluidic chamber on a planar waveguide in a manner that is insensitive to the optical properties of the chamber.

In an embodiment apparatus for illuminating a sample for analysis is disclosed. The apparatus includes a light source a planar waveguide and a refractive volume. The light source provides light along a propagation vector. The planar waveguide is oriented such that the propagation vector is perpendicular to the normal vector of the planar waveguide and offset from the planar waveguide in a direction parallel to the normal vector of the planar waveguide. The refractive volume which is positioned proximate to the planar waveguide optically couples light provided by the light source to the planar waveguide.

Another embodiment sets forth a method for performing sample analysis. Light is provided from a light source along a propagation vector. A refractive volume positioned proximate to a planar waveguide is illuminated with the light. The waveguide is oriented such that the propagation vector is perpendicular to the normal vector of the planar waveguide and offset from the planar waveguide in a direction parallel to the normal vector of the planar waveguide. The light is then coupled to the planar waveguide via the refractive volume.

Apparatus for performing biological assays is disclosed in yet another embodiment. The apparatus includes a light source a planar waveguide a refractive volume and a detector. The light source provides light along a propagation vector. The planar waveguide has a plurality of specific binding molecules bound to a face thereof. The planar waveguide could further have an array of two or more dissimilar specific binding molecules bound to the face thereof. Additionally the optical axis of the planar waveguide is oriented parallel to the propagation vector and offset from the propagation vector in a direction perpendicular to a face of the planar waveguide. The refractive volume optically couples light provided by the light source to the planar waveguide and is positioned proximate to the planar waveguide. The refractive volume includes at least a section of a plano convex cylindrical lens. The detector is positioned to detect light emitted from a region proximate to the face of the planar waveguide having the plurality of specific binding molecules bound thereto.

In an embodiment an apparatus for illuminating a sample includes a planar waveguide. The planar waveguide includes a first substrate with a first outer surface and a first inner surface and a second substrate with a second outer surface and a second inner surface. The first and second inner surfaces of the first and second substrates respectively are spaced apart from each other and partly define a volume for confining the sample therein. The apparatus further includes a light source for providing light directed toward the planar waveguide such that the light is optically coupled to and contained within the planar waveguide between the outer surfaces of the first and second substrates while illuminating at least a portion of the sample contained within the volume.

In a further embodiment the sample contains at least one object and the planar waveguide and the light source are configured to cooperate to uniformly illuminate the object. In a still further embodiment the object is greater than one micrometer in diameter.

In a yet further embodiment the apparatus further includes a gasket for separating the first and second inner surfaces of the first and second substrates respectively while further defining the volume for confining the sample therein. In a further embodiment the light is contained between the outer surfaces of the first and second substrates at least in part by total internal reflection. In a still further embodiment the light source provides uncollimated light.

In another embodiment a sample analysis system includes a planar waveguide. The planar waveguide in turn includes a first substrate with a first outer surface and a first inner surface and a second substrate with a second outer surface and a second inner surface. The first and second inner surfaces of the first and second substrates respectively are spaced apart from each other and partly define a volume for confining a sample therein. The sample analysis system further includes a first light source for providing a first illumination directed toward the planar waveguide. The first illumination is optically coupled to and contained within the planar waveguide between the outer surfaces of the first and second substrates while illuminating at least a portion of the sample confined within the volume. The sample analysis system also includes a detector for detecting a first light signal emitted from the sample as a result of the first illumination interacting with the portion of the sample.

In a further embodiment the sample analysis system includes a second light source which is configured for providing a second illumination and imaging optics for directing the second illumination from the second light source to at least another portion of the sample and to the detector. The detector is further configured for detecting a second light signal resulting from the second illumination interacting with the at least another portion of the sample.

It is noted that for purposes of illustrative clarity certain elements in the drawings may not be drawn to scale.

Embodiments of the present technology provide for sample illumination such as that involved in fluorescence detection and assay based on evanescent fields using apparatus including a waveguide with an integrated lens. The overall configuration of the apparatus may be such that fluorescence emitting molecules bound to a waveguide surface are excited by an evanescent field penetrating into the adjacent solution from a light beam propagated within the waveguide the propagated beam being introduced by an integrally connected lens. The collimated beam of light such as a laser beam may propagate parallel to the waveguide surface such that the system is insensitive to translation of the waveguide. The incident beam may be also appropriately offset from the optical axis of the waveguide such that refraction of the light at the lens surface directs the beam into the waveguide at an angle close to the critical angle for TIR. Additionally a second integrated cylindrical lens may be added to the output end of the waveguide. This addition of the second integrated cylindrical lens may facilitate a second laser being coupled in the opposite direction such as for use in multi color fluorescence assays.

The apparatus may also allow a fluidic chamber to be bound to the planar waveguide such that the chamber contact with the planar waveguide is outside the optical path of the propagating light eliminating restrictions on optical properties of material comprising the chamber. In some previous configurations fluidic chambers have utilized low index of refraction materials in contact with the planar waveguide with mechanical clamping in order to limit optical losses at the waveguide chamber contact area. By separating the waveguide chamber contact from the optical path traditional bonding methods such as adhesives or plastic welding may be used to attach the chamber to the waveguide. Moreover the fluidic chamber may include or be formed in part by a second planar waveguide wherein the fluidic chamber is disposed between two planar waveguides. In such an arrangement light may be coupled to both planar waveguides as well as the volume formed by the fluidic chamber.

It is noteworthy that fluidic sample chamber may include or be formed in part by a second planar waveguide similar to waveguide such that fluidic sample chamber is disposed between two planar waveguides. In such a configuration light may be coupled to both waveguide and the second planar waveguide as well as the volume formed by the fluidic sample chamber . The principles described herein are similarly applicable to configurations having multiple planar waveguides.

As a result of refraction explained by Snell s law collimated light beam refracts such that it strikes the top surface of waveguide at an angle relative to the optical axis of waveguide . The angle is defined as the internal propagation angle. The vertical distance y between the center of collimated light beam and the apex of integrated lens is chosen such that is less than the complement of the critical angle allowing total internal reflection to occur. For a given radius R for the curved surface of integrated lens and index of refraction n for integrated lens the distance y and angle are related by the equation 

Since collimated light beam has a spatial extent the curved surface of integrated lens will act to focus collimated light beam . The radius R of the curved surface of integrated lens is chosen such that for a given beam diameter of collimated light beam the range of angles incident on the top surface of waveguide is appropriate to provide a uniform evanescent field strength within the detection region while remaining outside the critical angle for TIR. It may be desired that collimated light beam be focused on the top surface the waveguide to allow for the greatest tolerance to misalignment. The total thickness t for the structure formed from waveguide and integrated lens that leads to a focused beam on the top surface may be given by 

When an appropriate thickness t is used collimated light beam will focus at a horizontal distance L from the center of the circle defining the curved surface of integrated lens . L may be related to the previously defined quantities by the equation 

The structure including waveguide and integrated lens may be manufactured in several different ways. One method is to have the entire assembly constructed in plastic by injection molding technology. An alternative method is to fabricate the planar waveguide and lens element separately from similar index materials. The two elements may then be joined permanently by a transparent optical cement optical contacting or temporarily with index matching fluid oil gel.

Geometries such as those described in connection with easily allow the adjustment of the internal propagation angle through a translation rather than a rotation of the incident laser beam This allows for a less complicated mechanical design to couple the laser to the waveguide. Additionally a new injection molded waveguide is not necessary when it is desired to change the incident angle because the focal point of the lens using the disclosed geometry of is insensitive to the translation of a laser beam relative to the optical axis of waveguide . Further a desired change in the incident angle is accomplished without changing the readout instrument allowing variation of cartridge function without physical changes in the instrument. A barcode on the cartridge may be utilized to identify information used to interpret signals from a given cartridge.

To prevent light from leaking from the waveguide after the first reflection from the top surface the cylindrical lens is truncated such that it does not extend beyond the location of the focus. The area defined by the line connecting the apex of integrated lens and the point on the bottom surface opposite the focus see e.g. optical deadzone in will never have light propagate in it that successfully couples to the waveguide. As such the precise shape of the lens in the area designated optical deadzone can be any convenient shape provided integrated lens does not extend beyond the vertical line passing through the focus. For a single injection molded device where minimizing material costs is important removing all plastic in the area labeled optical deadzone may be desirable. If two separate components made through conventional optical manufacturing processes are fabricated integrated lens that has been diced to remove material beyond the focus can be easily manufactured. A material that has low autofluorescence properties may be desirable to minimize background contributions in the signal collection.

Because integrated lens is used in off axis geometry minor optical aberrations at the focus may be exhibited if the curved surface is circular. While a circular profile functionally works the use of an aspheric surface may be employed to extend the range of the vertical position of the incident beam for which the beam will be coupled to waveguide allowing a larger range of adjustment of the angle . The appropriate deviation from a circular profile can be calculated with optical ray tracing programs familiar to those skilled in the art.

The large area of the top surface of waveguide before the focus may allow for a sample chamber to be sealed. Gasket sealing surface may be absent from the optical path. Therefore a larger range of gasket materials may be possible that only need to be evaluated for their chemical biological compatibility and not their optical properties. For example an adhesive backed spacer can be utilized to form a sealed flowcell without a complicated clamping mechanism. Multiple flow cells can also be incorporated into a single biosensor by utilizing a gasket with multiple channels.

A lid attached to the gasket completes the flow cell. Fluid samples can be introduced through orifices in the lid and flow through the channels allowing the fluid to interact with the top waveguide surface. Fluid reservoirs exterior to the flow channel can also be included to allow the introduction of fluids into the flow channel and an overflow reservoir at the outlet port of the flow channel to contain the fluid after it has passed through the flow channel. With plastic components the gasket may be optionally eliminated by molding the channels into one of the plastic components and joining the two plastic components directly with methods known to those skilled in the art e.g. laser or ultrasonic welding .

The evanescent field created by the light within waveguide can excite fluorophores that have attached to the top surface of waveguide . As the fluorophores relax and emit frequency shifted radiation the emitted light may be captured by a lens or series of lenses e.g. collection and filtering optics to transfer an image of the surface to a plane that is imaged by a light capturing device e.g. imaging device such as a CCD or CMOS sensor. An optical filter may also be placed between the waveguide surface and the imaging device to eliminate scattered incident light that has not been frequency shifted by the captured fluorophores.

In a step light is provided from a light source along a propagation vector. The light source may include a laser or any other source of collimated or near collimated light.

In a step a refractive volume is illuminated with the light. The refractive volume is positioned proximate to and may be integrated with a planar waveguide. In exemplary embodiments the refractive volume may include at least a section of a plano convex cylindrical lens wherein the longitudinal axis of the refractive volume is oriented perpendicular to the optical axis and the normal vector of the planar waveguide.

In a step the light is coupled to the planar waveguide via the refractive volume. The waveguide is oriented such that the propagation vector is perpendicular to the normal vector of the planar waveguide and offset from the planar waveguide in a direction parallel to the normal vector of the planar waveguide.

In an optional step indicated by a dashed box the optical coupling of the light provided by the light source to the planar waveguide is tuned by translating the light source in a direction parallel to the normal vector of the planar waveguide.

In a step consistent optical coupling of the light provided by the light source to the planar waveguide is maintained while translating the light source parallel to the optical axis of the planar waveguide.

In a step a biological sample is positioned in a reservoir formed at least in part by a face of the planar waveguide.

In a step light emitted from a region proximate to a face of the planar waveguide is detected. In some embodiments a detector is positioned to detect light emitted from a region proximate to the face of the planar waveguide having a plurality of capture molecules bound thereto.

For some applications containment of the liquid layer within a sub wavelength extent as in the context of the applications described above may be unfeasible. For instance if the object of interest is a biological cell on the order of one to twenty microns in diameter then a different approach to analyte illumination and light guiding is required.

Another important aspect to consider when designing optical waveguides for a practical application is the manufacturability of the waveguide especially if the application is intended to enter volume production with cost requirements. The sensitivity to manufacturing tolerances must be evaluated as it can greatly influence the manufacturability and in the worst case render the design unfeasible. Likewise the method for coupling light into the waveguide should be considered since the light insertion method may impact both the waveguide manufacturability and the engineering effort required to interface the waveguide with the light source. This issue is of particular concern if the light source will not be permanently affixed to the waveguide. Additionally the interfacing complexity tends to increase as the waveguide dimensions decrease.

Although the coupling of light into micrometer scale waveguides has been implemented in for instance telecommunications equipment the engineering effort and manufacturing expenses are important factors to be considered for cost sensitive applications outside of telecommunications. For instance the various types of waveguides described above are generally inappropriate for mass production due to their complexity.

It would be desirable to use an optical waveguide to efficiently illuminate low n media and or objects embedded in such media where the media or objects extend beyond the penetration depth of the evanescent field generated at a high n to low n interface. A low n medium may be for example a material having an index of refraction lower than that of conventional solid materials e.g. a refractive index less than 1.5. An optical waveguide capable of effectively illuminating a core containing a low index of refraction medium is described herein. It is noted that the terms light and illumination are used interchangeably herein.

In an embodiment as illustrated in a planar waveguide includes a stack of layers formed from a first substrate and a second substrate sandwiching a low n medium . The low n medium is interchangeably denoted herein as the interrogation medium. First and second substrates and may be for instance optically clear so as to be transparent to light having a wavelength within a predetermined range. Low n medium is introduced between first and second substrates and such that first and second substrates and cooperate to confine low n medium therebetween. First and second substrates and and low n medium may have a variety of thicknesses as long as low n medium exhibits a lower refractive index in comparison to first and second substrates and . The present concept is compatible with numerous schemes of coupling light into the waveguide as well as different methods of containing the low n medium therein. The low n medium may be liquid gaseous and or solid.

One dimensional optical confinement i.e. in a direction indicated by a surface normal indicated by a thick arrow of the first and second substrates of light inserted into the waveguide may be provided by TIR at the interfaces between the optically clear substrates and the external surroundings. In the exemplary embodiment shown in a light source directs illumination into planar waveguide at an angle away from the substrate normal and out of the plane of the substrates such that one dimensional optical confinement of illumination is provided by planar waveguide by total internal reflection at the two substrate to surrounding medium interfaces.

A cross sectional view of planar waveguide is shown in . It should be noted that the figures are not drawn to scale. As shown in first substrate has a refractive index n second substrate has a refractive index n and low n medium has a refractive index n. Planar waveguide is surrounded by air or some other medium with a refractive index n. The indices of refraction fulfill the requirements n

For liquid and gaseous interrogation media the waveguide design may be modified for containing the interrogation medium. For example in the embodiment shown in low n medium is contained between first and second substrates and entirely by surface tension. show an alternative configuration for a planar waveguide in which first and second substrates and are spaced apart by first and second gaskets and . Still alternatively first and second gaskets and may be connected to form a single contiguous gasket. It is noted that the embodiments shown in accommodates the addition of inlet and outlet ports not shown for the low n interrogation medium. The open ends in may be plugged using another material thereby forming a completely sealed volume for containing the interrogation medium.

The containment configuration should be compatible with the method for coupling light into the waveguide. For instance the system may be configured such that the interrogation medium may be uniformly illuminated in the plane of the planar waveguide even if the light is not solely confined within the interrogation medium. In coupling of light through the substrates is generally unaffected by the low n medium containment schemes shown in . Interference effects or curved interface effects e.g. if light is incident from the surrounding medium directly onto low n medium which may include an interface curvature caused by surface tension may affect subsequent propagation of light through planar waveguide or .

Referring to the illumination strength inside low n medium depends on the angle of light propagation inside planar waveguide . Due to the spatial compression of the light reflection at the light propagating at angles close to the critical angle will result in greater illumination strength than light propagating at angles far from the critical angle. To a first approximation the average illumination strength within planar waveguide is inversely proportional to sin where is the incidence angle of propagating light at the substrate air interface such that the light is contained within the waveguide.

Referring to the manner of coupling light into the waveguide may be chosen in accordance with the given application. For example the incident light may be coupled into a single layer of the multi part planar waveguide any combination of layers or all layers. If the light is coupled directly into the low n interrogation medium for instance the light may be inserted into the planar waveguide at any angle such that Eq. 7 is fulfilled. This range of angles include normal incidence onto the waveguide end i.e. at an angle perpendicular to surface normal . On the other hand if the light is coupled in through one of the substrates the angle of incidence should further satisfy the conditions 

A simple version of the planar low n index waveguide may be formed from two identical substrates of a single type of material as shown in . Alternatively the two substrates may be non identical and even be composed of several disparate layers of optically clear materials possibly with different indices of refraction.

Note that if first or second substrate or is formed of a plurality of disparate layers the effective refractive index of the combination of the plurality of disparate layers may be expressed as n which is related to the refractive index nof the surrounding medium by the equation n

The angle of light propagation should be such that the incidence angle for the substrate to interrogation medium interface as well as all interfaces between layers forming the substrate satisfy the condition Eq. 13 

The embodiments illustrated in impose no constraints on the thicknesses of the interrogation medium or the two substrates as long as the refractive index and incidence angle requirements of Eqs. 1 and 4 are fulfilled. The disclosed embodiments may be particularly suitable for low cost volume production and may be combined with light coupling mechanisms of relatively low complexity. While planar waveguides and will function properly with virtually any choice of thicknesses of the interrogation medium and substrates the actual choice of layer thicknesses may be based on a number of factors such as the choices of materials manufacturing methods and cost.

The light propagation through thick and thin versions of planar waveguide is illustrated for both a collimated beam and a diverging beam as the light input. As shown in a collimated beam will make distinct passes through low n medium throughout the waveguide with high intensity. For a diverging beam on the other hand the reflected light eventually overlaps resulting in substantially uniform illumination within the planar waveguide. Consequently if only one or more appropriately placed small regions extending no more than the portion illuminated by a single pass require illumination then collimated beam can provide greater intensity than diverging beam within the small region. If the intent is to illuminate a larger region possibly in a uniform fashion then a diverging beam may be a better choice. It should also be noted that the pairs of figures i.e. and may be viewed as illustrations of the same planar waveguide but illuminated with collimated and diverging beams respectively of different beam diameters.

Efficient coupling of light into the waveguide is readily achieved with a combined waveguide thickness of macroscopic extent e.g. on the order of few hundreds of nanometers or greater. For instance a focused laser beam may be easily coupled into a planar waveguide of such dimensions. The mechanism for appropriately focusing the incoming light may be either integrated in the waveguide or constructed as a system separate from the waveguide. Examples of light coupling mechanisms are shown in .

In another approach the light may be coupled into one of the two substrates which is equipped with an integrated lens assembly for appropriately focusing and directing the incoming light. For instance shows an embodiment in which first and second substrates and respectively are spaced apart to contain a low n medium therebetween. Second substrate includes an integrated lens which is configured to receive light beam so as to couple light beam into second substrate and subsequently the multi part planar waveguide configuration. shows a similar embodiment in which first and second substrates and respectively is spaced apart to contain a low n medium therebetween. In this embodiment second substrate includes an integrated lens which is this time configured to receive light beam incident at an angle perpendicular to surface normal . Light beam received at integrated lens is directed into second substrate and subsequently the multi part planar waveguide as a whole. shows an alternative embodiment which includes first and second substrates and respectively separated by first and second gaskets and respectively so as to contain a low n medium therebetween. Second substrate includes an integrated lens which is configured to receive light beam at a portion of second substrate away from first gasket such that light beam is inserted into the multi part planar waveguide structure without being blocked by first gasket . Finally shows an embodiment including first and second substrates and respectively. This time rather than including a separate gasket first substrate includes first and second stand offs and respectively which are configured so as to be attachable to second substrate by for instance laser welding ultrasonic welding or other suitable bonding method. When bonded together first and second substrates and respectively defines a volume for containing a low n medium therebetween. Second substrate includes an integrated lens configured for receiving light beam incident at an angle perpendicular to surface normal such that light beam propagates into second substrate and subsequently into the multi part planar waveguide structure as a whole. Integrated lens may be for example an integrated lens as described in the aforementioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 617 535 such that insertion of light beam into second substrate is substantially insensitive to translation of light beam with respect to integrated lens .

An exemplary embodiment of a cartridge system with interrogation medium containment in and outlet ports and light coupling means designed for light entry into the waveguide inside the contained region is shown in . A waveguide cartridge includes first and second substrates and respectively separated by a gasket so as to provide containment of a low n medium therebetween. Second substrate includes an integrated lens for receiving light incident thereon and directing light into waveguide cartridge so that after a few TIR bounces therein light uniformly illuminates at least a portion of low n medium . Waveguide cartridge further includes an inlet port and an outlet port through which one or more samples may be introduced into waveguide cartridge as low n medium .

The use of optically clear substrates may facilitate optical communication with the interrogation medium through the substrates. For instance additional image capture through the substrates may be utilized to detect light emitted from the interrogation medium and thereby extracting information about the interrogation medium in e.g. microscopy and or fluorescence applications. Additionally by using a position sensitive detector spatial information regarding the interrogation medium may be obtained. Alternatively light emitted within the range of angles confined by the waveguide may be detected in the plane of the waveguide if an appropriate pathway is established for allowing this light to exit the waveguide not shown . For example a mechanism for out coupling of light may be incorporated into the substrate in a manner similar to that used for the in coupling of light.

As an alternative one or more of the substrate surrounding medium interfaces may be configured to be at least partially reflective. Additionally one or more reflecting surfaces may be utilized in the waveguide. For instance one or both of the substrate to interrogation medium interfaces may be configured to be partially or completely reflective in order to better contain the guided light within the interrogation medium. In the case of configurations wherein the light is coupled into the waveguide through one of the two substrates the other one of the two substrates may be configured to include a reflective surface e.g. at the substrate to interrogation medium interface thereby increasing the illumination intensity within the interrogation medium. An example of this configuration is shown in in which a waveguide cartridge further includes a reflective layer at the interface between first substrate and low n medium . The configuration as shown in still allows for optical communication through second substrate e.g. for detection of light emitted from the interrogation medium while improving the light containment within waveguide cartridge without affecting the in coupling of light therein. Another advantage of this configuration is a reduced distance from light entry to uniform illumination when guiding a diverging beam Still another example is shown in in which a waveguide cartridge includes a reflective layer at the interface between the outer surface of first substrate and surrounding medium . The advantages imparted in the configuration of is similar to those discussed in relation to .

Other variations in which one or both of the substrates include one or more reflective regions may hold other advantages. For instance the configuration depicted in may be modified to include a reflective section located at a certain distance from the point of light entry thereby reducing the distance required to achieve uniform illumination while maintaining means for optical communication through both substrates. Additionally the at least partially reflective surfaces in may be used to direct light emitted by the interrogation medium e.g. fluorescence emission towards a detector placed underneath waveguide .

While each of the illustrated embodiments shows a single light beam entering the waveguide the embodiments may be extended to accommodate multiple beams entering the waveguide. For example the waveguide may be constructed to accept multiple beams of light by in coupling several light beams through one port such as a lens integrated into one of the substrates and or by incorporating several in coupling ports. The beams may propagate in directions that are parallel to each other either in co or counter propagating configurations or in non parallel configurations.

Human peripheral blood mononucleocytes PBMCs are labeled with CD3 Alexa Fluor 647 fluorescence stain available from Invitrogen Corporation. The cells whose diameter is 6 12 m are kept in a buffer consisting of phosphate buffered saline with 1 Bovine Serum Albumin and 0.06 sodium azide. The buffer with cells is loaded into a cartridge of the type shown in . The substrate materials and the buffer lead to a critical angle at the substrate to interrogation medium interface of 61 . 635 nm laser light is coupled into the system through the curved part of the lower substrate. The curvature is designed such that different entry heights result in different angles of incidence onto the substrate to interrogation medium interface. Two different laser heights were used in the present example resulting in two different angles of incidence onto the substrate to interrogation medium interface a 57 and b 66 . With a laser divergence angle of 3.5 after passing through the curved surface of the lower substrate case a allows the light to pass through the interrogation medium and be guided by the entire cartridge as shown in . In case b on the other hand the laser light is confined to the lower substrate and the interrogation medium is illuminated only by the evanescent field. The 635 nm laser light excites the Alexa Fluor 647 fluorophores and an imaging system positioned underneath the cartridge images fluorescence emitted from the interrogation medium.

Raw fluorescence images not shown indicate that the fluorescence is strongly enhanced when the interrogation medium is directly illuminated i.e. case a . The results are summarized in TABLE 1. In case a 590 fluorescent cells are detected versus only 138 cells in case b . The staining percentage i.e. number of fluorescent cells divided by total number of cells for case a agrees with results obtained on a flow cytometer. The signal to noise ratio S N has been calculated as the peak pixel intensity of a representative cell divided by the standard deviation of the surrounding background pixel intensities. Alternatively the signal to noise ratio could have been calculated as the peak intensity of a cell divided by the background level. However the former method is the more appropriate parameter when concerned with the ability to distinguish a cell from the background in the images. As listed in TABLE 1 the signal to noise ratio increases almost fourfold when directly illuminating the interrogation medium.

Changes may be made in the above methods and systems without departing from the scope hereof. It should thus be noted that the matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawings should be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense. The following claims are intended to cover generic and specific features described herein as well as statements of the scope of the present method and system which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween.

Although each of the aforedescribed embodiments have been illustrated with various components having particular respective orientations it should be understood that the system as described in the present disclosure may take on a variety of specific configurations with the various components being located in a variety of positions and mutual orientations and still remain within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. For example it should be noted that the present configuration may be applicable for systems in which the core refractive index is greater than the refractive indices of the substrates such as if a solid core material is used as long as the surrounding medium refractive index is less than those of the substrates. Additionally in the various figures described above the gasket may be eliminated and replaced with direct laser welding of first and second substrates. Furthermore suitable equivalents may be used in place of or in addition to the various components the function and use of such substitute or additional components being held to be familiar to those skilled in the art and are therefore regarded as falling within the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore the present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the present disclosure is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims.

