---

title: Dimethylmethylphosphonate vapor generator
abstract: A DMMP vapor generator, system, and method includes a mixing chamber that receives heated air; at least one heating coil operatively connected to the mixing chamber, wherein the at least one heating coil receives liquid DMMP and uses the heated air to heat the liquid DMMP; a mist sprayer operatively connected to the mixing chamber, wherein the mist sprayer receives the heated liquid DMMP and atomizes the heated liquid DMMP into a DMMP aerosol; and a tube operatively connected to the mixing chamber, wherein the tube receives and vaporizes the DMMP aerosol. The DMMP vapor generator may further include a heater operatively connected to the tube, wherein the heater maintains a temperature in at least a portion of the tube to continue a steady vaporization of the DMMP aerosol. The heated air in the mixing chamber and in the at least a portion of the tube is approximately 195° F.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09156041&OS=09156041&RS=09156041
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09156041
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120507
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The invention and embodiments described herein generally relate to vapor generators and more particularly to a dimethylmethylphosphonate DMMP vapor generator for high output applications.

DMMP is used to determine the capacity that gas filters have for filtering toxic nerve agents without using toxic materials. Generally vaporizing DMMP in large quantities e.g. 100 cfm or more has always been difficult and complete vaporization is next to impossible. In the late twentieth century the concept of spraying DMMP into a length of heated pipe was first explored. Some of the earliest prototypes used an eight foot length of inch pipe heat traced to 350 F. by solar radiation where the pipe was held at a focal point in an eight foot parabolic trough reflector. Next DMMP was sprayed into the end of the pipe and the nozzle air carried the DMMP mist through the pipe. The DMMP mist then vaporized before exiting the pipe. Data from this prototype was used later in the fabrication of the DMMP and agent vapor generator used in evaluating the filter developed for the V 22 Osprey vertical takeoff aircraft. One problem with this vapor generator was that the pipe was coiled and immersed in a tank of thermal heat transfer oil which took hours to preheat.

Conventionally no off the shelf vapor generator exists for vaporizing chemicals as heavy as DMMP which has the consistency of light weight motor oil. Conventionally DMMP vapor generators used for testing by the military generally suffer from chemical fallout that is not all of the DMMP that was injected into the test system vaporized. Thus older test systems typically suffered from contamination issues slow challenge concentration development and could not be run clean. Most systems in use utilize a spray nozzle. However as mentioned above there is a problem in that not all of the DMMP vaporizes. What does not vaporize stays in an aerosol or drops to the bottom of the test equipment such as a Q262 gas life test machine and must be drained away. Accordingly a new and improved DMMP vapor generator that overcomes the limitations of the conventional solutions would be beneficial to the industry.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a DMMP vapor generator comprising a mixing chamber that receives heated air at least one heating coil operatively connected to the mixing chamber wherein the at least one heating coil receives liquid DMMP and uses the heated air to heat the liquid DMMP a mist sprayer operatively connected to the mixing chamber wherein the mist sprayer receives the heated liquid DMMP and atomizes the heated liquid DMMP into a DMMP aerosol and a tube operatively connected to the mixing chamber wherein the tube receives and vaporizes the DMMP aerosol. The DMMP vapor generator may further comprise a heater operatively connected to the tube wherein the heater maintains a temperature in at least a portion of the tube to continue a steady vaporization of the DMMP aerosol. The mixing chamber may be housed in a body unit comprising a translucent portion and a screen. The DMMP vapor generator may include a nozzle that discharges atomized DMMP. The heated air in the mixing chamber and in the at least a portion of the tube is approximately 195 F. The DMMP vapor generator may further include a flange that connects the mixing chamber to the tube and a bifurcated joint inside the mixing chamber and operatively connected to each of the mist sprayer and the flange wherein the bifurcated joint receives the DMMP aerosol and discharges the heated air from the mixing chamber.

Another embodiment provides a system for vaporizing DMMP comprising a mixing chamber a pair of heating coils positioned inside the mixing chamber a first bifurcated joint that distributes liquid DMMP into the pair of heating coils wherein the pair of heating coils heats the liquid DMMP an atomizer operatively connected to the mixing chamber wherein the atomizer atomizes the heated liquid DMMP into a DMMP aerosol a tube operatively connected to the mixing chamber wherein the tube receives and vaporizes the DMMP aerosol and a heater operatively connected to the tube. The heater may maintain a temperature in at least a portion of the tube to continue a steady vaporization of the DMMP aerosol. The mixing chamber may be housed in a body unit comprising a translucent portion and a screen. The system may include a nozzle that discharges atomized DMMP. The temperature in the mixing chamber and in the at least a portion of the tube is approximately 195 F. The system may further include a flange that connects the mixing chamber to the tube and a second bifurcated joint inside the mixing chamber and operatively connected to each of the atomizer and the flange wherein the second bifurcated joint receives the DMMP aerosol and discharges the heated air from the mixing chamber.

Another embodiment provides a method of vaporizing DMMP the method comprising receiving heated air in a mixing chamber heating liquid DMMP with the heated air atomizing the liquid DMMP into a DMMP aerosol outputting the DMMP aerosol into a tube positioned outside of the mixing chamber and maintaining a steady vaporization rate of the DMMP aerosol in the tube until the DMMP aerosol is completely vaporized. The method may further comprise discharging the vaporized DMMP from the tube. The method may further comprise maintaining the heated air in the mixing chamber and in at least a portion of the tube at approximately 195 F.

These and other aspects of the embodiments described herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein provide a DMMP vapor generator that vaporizes enough DMMP for testing large e.g. 100 cfm or more collective protection gas filters. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

A DMMP vapor generator is shown in and comprises a mixing chamber that receives heated air. At least one heating coil which may be embodied as a coiled tube or plurality of coiled tubes is operatively connected to the mixing chamber wherein the at least one heating coil receives and heats liquid DMMP using the heated air or other heating source that enters the mixing chamber through opening . The heated liquid DMMP is then delivered to a mist sprayer e.g. atomizer and is atomized into a fine aerosol. The air entering opening leaves the mixing chamber through bifurcated joint . At this point the DMMP is in an aerosol state. As the DMMP aerosol is transported through tube the DMMP aerosol is slowly vaporized until it is a complete vapor. The vaporization rate varies depending on the actual temperature in the tube and the droplet size of the DMMP aerosol. Typically the finer the droplets the more surface area hence the faster the vaporization rate. As an example the rate of vaporization for a 500 cfm test filter requires vaporization of approximately 70.8 grams of DMMP per minute.

A heater is operatively connected to the tube wherein the heater maintains a temperature in at least a portion of the tube to continue a steady vaporization of the DMMP aerosol. A flange connects the mixing chamber to the tube . The bifurcated joint is positioned inside the mixing chamber and is operatively connected to each of the mist sprayer and the flange . The mixing chamber is housed in a body unit comprising a translucent portion a frame and a screen . The tube comprises a nozzle that collects the atomized DMMP from the mist sprayer and then discharges the atomized DMMP to the bifurcated joint . The heated air in the mixing chamber and in the at least a portion of the tube is approximately 195 F.

The vapor generator provided by the embodiments herein utilizes the principle of creating a mist of the chemical to be vaporized and transports the mist in a confined and super heated pipe e.g. tube until complete vaporization is achieved. According to the embodiments herein air is heated and blown into a length of insulated pipe e.g. tube . The liquid DMMP is initially heated by pumping e.g. using a metering pump not shown it through the heating coils prior to atomization. Because a blower not shown but a blower may be positioned adjacent to the mixing chamber is used airless mist sprayers may also be used according to one embodiment. Preheating the DMMP prior to injection to the mist sprayers and heating the airflow directly allows the DMMP to be vaporized in the tube at a much lower temperature of 195 F. compared with the conventional designs which is below the flash point of DMMP e.g. 200 F. . To meet the standard test requirement of 5000 mg m3 of DMMP to be delivered to a test filter not shown at 125 F. the DMMP concentration in the vapor generator is much higher due to the lower flow within the vapor generator which is approximately 35 cfm. This concentrated air vapor mix is then mixed with air flow ranging from approximately 100 to 1000 cfm. Because the DMMP is vaporized in a separate vapor generator e.g. separate from a main test system not shown the main test flow can be maintained at a much lower temperature.

The high temperatures within the vapor generator allow for an almost instant loss of vapor upon cessation of DMMP liquid injection as well as instantaneous concentration of choice upon initiation of feed. In other words the DMMP gas life test is a very exacting and sensitive test. With a feed concentration of approximately 5000 mg mand a maximum concentration exiting the test filter of approximately 0.04 mg m the difference between the concentrations is approximately 125 000 times. At the end of a filter test if the feed concentration does not immediately drop to zero then contamination of the test system downstream of the test filter will occur when the filter is removed from the system. This contamination can delay testing for several days. Therefore it is desirable that upon cessation of DMMP injection into the vapor generator the concentration drops off instantly. Also to determine the exact time at which the test is initiated it is also desirable that the target concentration approximately 5000 mg m is reached instantly rather than ramping up over 30 minutes or more. The standard gas life test is approximately 120 minutes from initiation of the 5000 mg mchallenge until the 0.04 mg mconcentration is detected exiting the test filter. The lab may test as many as four to five filters in a day therefore instant delivery of a test challenge and instant clearing of the challenge is very desirable which the vapor generator provided by the embodiments herein achieves. Additionally since none of the DMMP drops out of the system and is collected by the test filter an actual weight balance can be achieved. Generally prior to the development of the vapor generator the conventional solutions have not been able to successfully accomplish this.

Heating the air entering the vapor generator heats the air directly and when combined with the pre heat coils allows the vapor generator to vaporize DMMP while staying below the material s flash point e.g. 200 F. . The vapor generator reaches an operating temperature within approximately one hour. Since all of the DMMP that is fed to the vapor generator is vaporized the calibration of the detection equipment can be checked against the amount of DMMP injected for each and every test. The mixing chamber is used to hold the mist sprayers e.g. atomizers in place and may have a translucent portion e.g. glass that allows viewing of the tips of the mist sprayers e.g. atomizers when in operation and allows easy access for maintenance.

As mentioned above the liquid DMMP is metered into the mixing chamber coils located inside the mixing chamber where it is preheated by the 35 cfm of heated air entering the bottom of the mixing chamber through tube of the mixing chamber . The DMMP then leaves the mixing chamber coils and is fed into the back of the mist sprayers e.g. atomizers through tubes . The atomized DMMP exits the tips of the mist sprayers and is drawn into the approximately two inch for example tee joint along with the heated air exiting the mixing chamber . The tips of the tee joint are configured to draw off the atomized DMMP that exits the mist sprayers e.g. atomizers and any liquid DMMP that spatters or drips from the tips of the mist sprayers . Although the air entering the mixing chamber is heated to about 195 F. the temperature in the first length of the pipe e.g. tube exiting the mixing chamber cools due to the vaporization of the liquid DMMP. The heater in the final length of the tube maintains 195 F. to continue the vaporization of the DMMP aerosol and entrained DMMP liquid. This results in the full vaporization of the liquid DMMP that is fed into the main test system not shown . This 35 cfm of hot DMMP vapor in air mixture is then fed into a main test system not shown that connects to the end near elbow of the tube such as a Q262 filter test system and is mixed with the system s primary air.

The embodiments herein provide a DMMP vapor generator that provides complete vaporization and also allows a test system not shown to reach the targeted vapor concentration quickly as well as permitting the system to be cleared quickly. The capability of a vapor to clear itself quickly is also beneficial in that low test concentrations can be conducted and contamination issues are less of a problem.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

