---

title: Alert system for social network users
abstract: A system includes: a rule module, an application programming interface module, a determination module and a communication module. The rule module receives an alert rule describing a second user and a social network application associated with the second user. The rule module stores the alert rule in a user profile for the first user. The application programming interface module determines an application programming interface. The determination module receives a presence update from the social network application. The determination module determines whether the second user may be active on the social network application. The determination module determines an alert event responsive to determining that the second user may be active on the social network application. The communication module transmits an alert message to the first user responsive to the alert event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09117197&OS=09117197&RS=09117197
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09117197
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121019
---
The specification relates to providing an alert to a first user when a second user may be active on a social network application.

The popularity of electronic communications in particular via online communities or services for example social networks has grown over the years. Some social networks provide real time chat services e.g. instant messaging video conferencing and voice chat for communication over the Internet between at least two members of the social network. However each party is required to be online or logged in to the social network at the same time to communicate using the chat service. Each party may have different schedules when they login to or use the social network. Therefore the parties miss opportunities to chat with each other. One party may login to the social network and wait for the other party to login to the social network. However the waiting party wastes time and computer network resources as a result of waiting for the other party to login to the social network.

In general one innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this disclosure may be embodied in methods that include receiving an alert rule from a first user describing a second user and a social network application associated with the second user storing the alert rule in a user profile for the first user determining an application programming interface based on the alert rule receiving a presence update from the social network application based on the application programming interface the presence update describing whether the second user may be active on the social network application determining whether the second user may be active on the social network application determining an alert event responsive to determining that the second user may be active on the social network application and transmitting an alert message to the first user responsive to the alert event.

Other aspects include corresponding methods systems apparatus and computer program products for these and other innovative aspects.

These and other implementations may each optionally include one or more of the following features. For instance the operations include determining whether a login event may be configured based on the alert rule retrieving login information for the first user and logging the first user in the social network application responsive to the alert event. For instance the features include the alert rule being for a group in the social network and the second user is part of the group the alert rule describes two or more second users and two or more alert types associated with the two or more second users the alert types may be different for each second user the alert rule describes the social network application and the user profile may be associated with a different social network application and determining whether the second user is active is based on the second user performing an activity in the social network during a fixed period of time.

The technology may be particularly advantageous in a number of respects. The system allows a user to configure an alert rule that specifies alerting the user when a second user may be active on a social network application. The user may configure different alert types for different second users. The user may also configure the alert rule for different second users on different social networks. By configuring the alert rule the user does not need to unnecessarily wait for a second user specified by the alert rule to login to the social network application. Therefore time and computer network resources may be saved as a result of configuring the alert rule.

In some instances the alert system may be operable on the social network server which is coupled to the network via signal line . The social network server can be a hardware server that includes a processor a memory and network communication capabilities. In some implementations the social network server sends and receives data to and from one or more of the user devices . . . the social network servers . . . and the third party server via the network . The social network server includes a social network application . The social network application stores explicitly defined relationships and relationships implied by social connections with other online users as a social graph. In some examples the social graph can reflect a mapping of these users and how they can be related. For example when user A follows user B user A has a first degree relationship with user B. When user B follows user C and user A does not follow user C user A has a second degree relationship with user C. In some instances the social network application generates groups of followers for example based on a particular interest e.g. a group of photographers a work relationship a family relationship etc. In some instances users can specify a level of closeness to other users for example acquaintance work friend best friend etc. In some instances the social network application generates an affinity score between users based on the degree of separation frequency of communication between the users comments indications of acknowledgement direct messaging etc. and level of closeness.

Furthermore it should be understood that social network server and social network application are representative of one social network and that there are multiple social networks . . . coupled to the network each having its own server application and social graph. For example a first social network can be directed to business networking a second social network can be centered on academics a third social network can be directed to dating etc.

The user devices . . . in are used by way of example. While illustrates two user devices . . . the disclosure applies to any system architecture having one or more user devices . . . . Furthermore while only one network is coupled to the user devices the social network servers . . . and the third party server in practice any number of networks can be connected to the entities.

In some instances at least a part of the alert system may be stored on a user device which is connected to the network via signal line . For example the alert system can be a thin client application that retrieves information from the social network application on the social network server . In another example user device may include a browser application not shown . The alert system may be extensible code stored and executed by the browser application. For example the alert system may be stored in a cache of the browser application not pictured . A processor of the user device not pictured may execute the alert system . The alert system may be a plug in to the browser application or extension code that cooperates with the browser application. The user interacts with the user device via signal line . The user device . . . is any computing device. For example the user device . . . can be a personal computer PC a cell phone e.g. a smart phone a feature phone etc. a tablet computer or tablet PC a laptop etc. In some instances the user device . . . is a smart phone having a touch screen and the user . . . interacts with the smart phone via the touch screen. For example mobile device includes a processor for executing the alert system and the alert system is an application stored in a memory of the mobile device.

In some instances at least part of the alert system may be stored on a third party server which is connected to the network via signal line . In some implementations the third party server can be a hardware server that includes a processor a memory and network communication capabilities. The third party server sends and receives data to and from other entities of the system via the network . While includes one third party server the system may include one or more third party servers .

The network can be a conventional type wired or wireless and may have any number of configurations such as a star configuration token ring configuration or other configurations. In some instances the network is any type of data network. For example the network may be a 3G or 4G network. Furthermore the network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and or any other interconnected data path across which multiple devices may communicate. In some instances the network may be a peer to peer network. The network may also be coupled to or includes portions of a telecommunications network for sending data in a variety of different communication protocols. In some instances the network includes BLUETOOTH communication networks or a cellular communications network for sending and receiving data such as via short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP email etc. In some instances the network can be a combination of one or more of the different network types described above.

The alert system can be code and routines for alerting a user that another user may be active on a social network application. In some instances the alert system can be implemented using hardware including a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . In some other instances the alert system can be implemented using a combination of hardware and software. In some instances the alert system may be stored in a combination on the devices and servers or in one of the devices or servers. The alert system is described below in more detail with reference to .

The processor includes an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and provide electronic display signals to a display device. Processor processes data signals and may include various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although includes a single processor multiple processors may be included. Other processors operating systems sensors displays and physical configurations are possible.

The memory stores instructions and or data that may be executed by the processor . The instructions and or data may include code for performing the techniques described herein. The memory may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory device. In some instances the memory also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device for storing information on a more permanent basis.

The storage can be a non transitory memory that stores data for providing the functionality described herein. The storage may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory devices. In some instances the storage also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device for storing information on a more permanent basis.

In some instances the storage stores graphical data describing a user interface for receiving input from a user. In one example the user interface may be a rule GUI for defining alert rules. In other instances the graphical data may describe alert rules that a user provided to the rule GUI.

In some instances the storage stores API data. In some instances the API data may include an API for configuring communications between the alert system and the social network application . For example the API data may include a publicly available API for communicating with any social network application . In some instances the API may provide a presence update for one or more users from a social network application . In some instances the API may provide an interface for logging the user in to the social network application . In some instances the API data may include two or more APIs for communicating with two or more social network applications .

In some instances the storage stores rule data. The rule data is data that specifies one or more rules. An example of a rule is an alert rule. An alert rule may describe an alert preference for a first user . The alert rule may specify an alert type that describes a type of message that is transmitted to the user device . For example a type of message can include an email message an SMS message an automated voice call etc. The alert rules may specify a second user and a social network application . The alert rules may describe two or more second users . . . and two or more alert types associated with the two or more second users . . . . In some instances the alert types may be different for each second user .

In some instances the alert rule may describe a login event option. A login event option is an optional event in which a user is automatically logged in to a social network application . An example of a login event option is described in more detail below with reference to steps and of . In some instances a user may specify details regarding the login event option using a user interface depicted in . When the login event option is configured login information for the user may be retrieved from the storage . In some instances the storage stores the login information for the user . The login information can include login credentials for logging the user in to social network application . For example the login information can include a user name and a password for field input of a login page of the social network application . In another example the login information can include an access token for accessing the social network application .

In some instances the storage stores user profile data. User profile data can include data describing the user preferences interests identifying information etc. for a user . For example the user profile is associated with the social network application . In some instances the user profile data is associated with two or more social network applications . In one instance the storage stores an alert rule in the user profile for the user . In one instance the alert rule describes a social network application and the user profile may be associated with the social network application . In other instances the alert rule describes the social network application and the user profile may be associated with a different social network .

The alert system includes a communication module a graphical user interface GUI module a rule module an application programming interface API module a determination module an alert module and a login module . These components of the alert system are communicatively coupled to each other via the bus .

The communication module can be software including routines for handling communications between the alert system other components of the computing device and other entities of the system . In some instances the communication module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for handling communications between the alert system other components of the computing device and other entities of the system . In some other instances the communication module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

The communication module handles communication between the alert system other components of the computing device and other entities of the system . In one instance the communication module receives input requesting a rule GUI from the user . In another instance the communication module transmits an alert message to the user device . In some instances the communication module may be configured for sending and receiving data including via SMS MMS HTTP direct data connection WAP email etc. For example the communication module can transmit an SMS message to a user device .

The GUI module can be software including routines for determining graphical data for causing the user device to generate a GUI. In some instances the GUI module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for determining graphical data that enables the user device to generate a GUI. In some other instances the GUI module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

In some instances the GUI module generates graphical data for displaying a rule GUI. In some instances a rule GUI is a user interface used by the user to provide rule data to the alert system . An example of a rule GUI is depicted in . The GUI module may transmit the graphical data to the communication module . The communication module may transmit the graphical data to the user device . For example the communication module may transmit the graphical data to the user device via the network . The user device may generate a rule GUI for display to the user based at least in part on the graphical data determined by the GUI module . For example the user device stores a browser application on a non transitory memory not pictured of the user device . The user device includes a processor not pictured that executes the browser application. The browser application executes the browser and renders a rule GUI based at least in part on the graphical data. An example of a rule GUI is described below with reference to . The user may configure an alert rule via the rule GUI. The GUI module may determine graphical data for generating other user interfaces for display on user device .

In some instances the alert system may be an element of the user device . For example the user device may be a mobile device such as a smart phone or tablet computer. The alert system may be an application stored on a non transitory memory of the user device . The GUI module may determine a rule GUI for display on the user device . In some instances GUI module can determine the rule GUI based on the input requesting the rule GUI. In some instances the GUI module may retrieve graphical data from the storage for providing the rule GUI to the user device to present the rule GUI. The user may configure an alert rule via the rule GUI.

The rule module can be software including routines for managing alert rules. In some instances the rule module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for managing alert rules. In some other instances the rule module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

The rule module can manage and store alert rules. In one instance the rule module receives rule input specifying an alert rule. In some instances the rule module receives the rule input provided by user in a rule GUI. For example the rule GUI may be a user interface depicted in . The user inputs data in the fields of the rule GUI. The data received via the rule GUI can be rule data specifying one or more alert rules. The communication module receives the data and stores it in the storage or the memory . In some instances an alert rule specifies alert preferences for alerting a user . For example the alert rule specifies a type of message for transmitting to the user device . In some instances an alert rule specifies one or more social network applications used by the user . In some instances the alert rule specifies two or more second users . . .

In some instances the alert rule specifies a group on the social network. For example the user wants to be notified when any members of a group of students taking the same class are active so that they can discuss a homework problem. In some instances the alert rule distinguishes between general members of the group and certain users within the group. For example the alert rule specifies notifying the user when members of the group with a first degree relationship with the user become active via an email that is sent within a minute of those members becoming active. For the other members of the group the alert rule specifies sending an hourly summary to the user of members that became active.

In other instances the rule module may store the alert rule. For example the rule module may store the alert rule in storage . In some instances the rule module may store the alert rule in a user profile of the social network application . For example the alert rule is stored in the user profile for the user . User profile data can include data describing the user profile for a user . For example the user profile is associated with the social network application . In some instances the alert rule may describe a social network application and the user profile may be associated with the social network application . In other instances the alert rule may describe the social network application and the user profile may be associated with a different social network application . In some instances the rule module stores in the storage an association between one or more alert rules and the user profile for the user .

The API module can be software including routines for determining an API. In some instances the API module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for determining an API. In some other instances the API module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

The social network application uses an API to determine what information to provide to the alert system . The API module can determine the API so that the communication module can communicate and exchange data with the social network application . For example the API module determines how to configure requests for data depending on the type of social network application . In some instances the API module may determine the API based on the social network application specified by an alert rule. For example the API module may determine the API based on comparing the social network application specified by the alert rule with API data stored in the storage . The API data may include a publicly available API for communicating with any social network application . In some instances the API data may include two or more APIs for communicating with two or more social network applications .

In some instances the API module may determine which API to retrieve from the storage based at least in part on a social network specified by an alert rule. For example the API is a publicly available API for communicating with the social network application . in some instances the storage stores an association between the API and the particular social network application . The storage may store other APIs not associated with the social network application .

The alert rule specifies a particular social network application that the first user is interested in. The API module determines that the alert rule specifies a particular social network application . The API module determines which API stored on the storage is associated with the particular social network application specified by the alert rule. The API module retrieves the API stored on the storage that is associated with the social network application specified by the alert rule.

The determination module can be software including routines for determining whether a user is active on a social network application . In some instances the determination module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for determining whether a user may be active on a social network application . In some other instances the determination module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

In one instance the determination module may receive a presence update from the social network application based on the API. For example the determination module cooperates with the communication module to request a presence update from the social network application using an API determined by the API module . In some instances the determination module uses a call function of the API to request a presence update from the social network application . A presence update is data provided by the social network application to the alert system that describes whether a second user is presently active on the social network e.g. whether the user is online . For example a second user is active on a social network application when the second user is logged into the social network application . In some instances the user is a second user specified by an alert rule by a first user

The determination module can determine an alert event responsive to determining that a second user specified by an alert rule is online. An alert event is an event describing when a second user specified by an alert rule is online. For example a first user uses a rule GUI to specify an alert rule requesting to be notified when a second user or a group of users are online. The alert rule also specifies one or more social network applications to communicate with regarding the presence of the second user . The API module determines one or more APIs for communicating with the social network applications specified by the alert rule. The communication module receives presence update data describing whether the second user is logged in the social network application specified by the alert rule. Responsive to receiving a presence update indicating that the second user is logged in the determination module determines an alert event. The determination module then communicates the alert event to the alert module .

The determination module may receive the presence update in different formats. For example the format may include Extensible Markup Language XML . The format may include JavaScript Object Notation JSON . The format may include Comma Separated Values CSV format. The presence update may describe whether a second user is active on the social network application . In some instances the presence update includes a status for the second user . For example the status describes an online status for the second user on the social network application e.g. available unavailable busy on a call available but idle etc. . The status may describe the second user as online or offline. In other instances the presence update may include an activity timestamp. The activity timestamp may describe an action by the second user on the social network application at a particular time. For example the action may include posting logging in logging out commenting providing indications of acknowledgement chatting emailing etc. In some instances the determination module uses the status to determine the presence update unless the determination module determines that the user has configured the social network to indicate that the user is perpetually offline. In instances where the user consents to the use of such data the determination module can rely on the activity timestamp to determine whether the user is present. For example a user that has posted or commented in the last minute is probably online even though the user s status is listed as offline.

In some instances the determination module determines whether the second user may be active on the social network application based on the presence update. For example the determination module makes the determination based on the status. In instances where the second user consents to the use of such data the determination module makes the determination based on the activity timestamp. For example the determination module makes the determination based on a recency of a particular action by the second user on the social network application during a fixed period of time e.g. activity within the last minute five minutes 10 minutes etc. .

In some instances the determination module determines that the second user is not active on the social network application . In response to determining that the second user is not be active on the social network application the determination module may receive another presence update from the social network application . For example determination module requests the presence update with a call function to the social network application using the API. The determination module can determine whether the second user may be active on the social network application based on the presence update.

The alert module can be software including routines for determining alert types. In some instances the alert module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for determining alert types. In some other instances the alert module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

In some instances the alert module determines an alert type based on the alert rule. For example the alert rule specifies that the first user wants to be notified that a second user is online responsive to the determination module determining an alert event. In some instances the alert rule specifies different levels of alerts depending upon the relationship between users. For example the first user specifies that the alert event should occur for other users with a first degree relationship with the first user. In another example the first user specifies that the alert level should be a notification in the social network for users in a specific group unless those users have an affinity score with the user that exceeds a certain threshold in which case the alert level should be a text message. In yet another example the first user wants to see alert events for users with a certain level of closeness for example users that are close friends and not users that are acquaintances.

The alert rule may further specify that the first user wants to be notified using a particular type of messaging. For example the alert rule specifies that the first user wants to be notified of the second user s presence online via email SMS a notification within a social network or any other messaging type. The alert rule determines the alert type based on the messaging type specified by the alert rule. In some instances the alert rule includes designating a type of messaging based on the relationship between the users. For example a first user wants to receive SMS messages when users that exceed a certain affinity score are present online and the user wants to receive email messages when users with a lower affinity score than the threshold are present online.

The alert module may generate an alert message based on the messaging type. The alert module may transmit the alert message to the communication module responsive to the determination module determining an alert event. The communication module may transmit the alert message to the user device . For example the communication module may transmit the alert message to the user device via the network .

The login module can be software including routines for managing logins for the user . In some instances the login module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for managing logins for the user. In some other instances the login module can be stored in the memory of the computing device and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

In some instances the login module may log the user in the social network application in response to the determination module determining an alert event. For example the determination module determines an alert event in response to a presence update indicating that the second user may be active on the social network application . The login module may determine whether a login event occurs based on the alert rule. For example the alert rule may include a login event option specified by the first user . The login event option indicates that the first user wants to be automatically logged in to the social network application responsive to the determination module determining an alert event. For example the first user is logged in to the same social network on which the second user is presently active.

In some instances the login module retrieves login information for the user . In some instances the login module retrieves the login information based on the login event option being configured by the user . For example the user may specify the login event option using a user interface depicted in . In some instances the login module retrieves login credentials from storage . The login module may transmit the login credentials to the social network application . The social network application provides access based on the login credentials. In some instances the login module retrieves a username and a password for logging the user into the social network application . The login module may input the username and password in fields of a login page for submission to the social network application . In other instances the login module provides the login credentials to the social network application using the API based on the social network application specified by the alert rule.

Referring now to a flowchart of method for alerting a first user that a second user may be active on a social network application is described. The alert system includes a communication module a rule module and a determination module . The rule module receives a rule input. The rule input may specify an alert rule. For example a first user specifies that the user wants to see an SMS message when a second user is present on a social network . The determination module receives a presence update from the social network application . For example the determination module receives information about a second user that commented on the social network application in the last 30 seconds. The determination module determines whether the second user is online. In some instances the determination module may determine whether the second user is active on the social network application . The communication module alerts the first user that the second user is online. In some instances the communication module may alert the first user by transmitting an alert message to a user device . In some instances the type of message can be an SMS message an email message an automated voice call a notification in a social network etc.

Referring now to flowcharts of another method for alerting a first user that a second user is active on a social network application are described. The alert system includes a communication module a GUI module a rule module a determination module and a login module . Turning to the communication module receives input requesting a rule GUI. The GUI module determines the rule GUI. The GUI module transmits the rule GUI.

Referring to the rule module receives one or more rule inputs specifying an alert rule. The rule module may store the alert rule in a user profile. The API module determines one or more APIs. For example the API module determines how to communicate with social networks using a public API or an API that is specific to each social network. The determination module receives a presence update from the social network application . At step the determination module determines whether the second user is online. For example the determination module determines that the second user s status switched from unavailable to available. In another example the determination module determines that the second user performed an activity recently for example the user posted in a social network. If the determination module determines that the second user is not online the method may move to step . Otherwise the determination module determines an alert type. For example the determination module determines that the first user prefers to receive an SMS when the second user is online because the first user follows the second user. The communication module may transmit an alert to the first user

Referring to at step the login module can determine whether automatic login is enabled. If the login module determines that automatic login is enabled the method moves to step . At step the login module may login the first user . Otherwise the method ends.

In some instances at least a part of the alert system may be stored and executed by a user device . For example the user device is a mobile device such as a smart phone and the alert system is an application stored and executed by the mobile device. In some instances the alert system can perform at least some of the steps of the method while other steps of method are performed by the social network application or any other system associated with the social network server . For example the alert system may receive one or more inputs requesting a rule GUI. The alert system may determine the rule GUI. The alert system may transmit the rule GUI. In other instances the alert system may determine whether the social network is configured for automatic login. The user device may login the first user into the social network if it is configured for automatic login. A person having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that in some embodiments the alert system stored on the user device performs different steps of method .

The alert rules applies to one or more social network applications for determining whether a second user may be active on the social network application . Social network name identifies a social network application as Social Network 1. The second user may be identified by a username or group name . In one instance the alert types associated with the second user are different. For example the alert type associated with the second user identified by username may be an SMS type of message. The alert type may include an identifier or phone number for sending the message. The alert type associated with the group name may be a default alert type that may be based on the default alert type .

The user interface includes a remove button for removing an alert rule for a second user . The user interface includes a remove alerts button for removing alerts for all second users for a social network application . For example by clicking on remove alerts button alerts for Jane.Doe and Close Friends Group on Social Network 1 may be removed or deleted.

The rules may include an automatic login input . The automatic login input may be a login event option described in . When the automatic login input is activated login information for the first user may be retrieved. The first user may be logged in the social network application in response to an alert event.

In the above description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the specification. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the description. For example the disclosure is described in one instance primarily with reference to user interfaces and particular hardware. However the disclosure applies to any type of computing device that can receive data and commands and any peripheral devices providing services.

Reference in the specification to one instance or an instance means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the instance is included in at least one instance of the description. The appearances of the phrase in one instance in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same instance.

Some portions of the detailed description are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The specification also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memories including USB keys with non volatile memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

The specification can take the form of an entirely hardware instance an entirely software instance or an instance containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred instance the specification is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the description can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Finally the algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description above. In addition the specification is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the specification as described herein.

The foregoing description of the instances of the specification has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the specification to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the disclosure be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As will be understood by those familiar with the art the specification may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the specification or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the disclosure can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the specification is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the disclosure is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the specification which is set forth in the following claims.

