---

title: Ergonomic support apparatus having situational sensory augmentation
abstract: An apparatus is provided for combined ergonomic support and situational sensory augmentation interface during an interactive session within a virtual environment generated by a computer system. The apparatus comprises a resilient body defining a mid portion extending laterally between a pair of side portions projecting transversely outward therefrom to terminate at respective free ends. The mid portion extends across a lap of a user. The mid and side portions collectively define an upper surface for hand and forearm support for the user and an inner side surface contoured about a cradle space for receiving a torso of the user in cradling manner. At least one actuator disposed on the resilient body is selectively driven in cooperation with the interactive session to generate tactile feedback to the user through at least one of the upper and inner side surfaces of the resilient body.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08902159&OS=08902159&RS=08902159
owner: 
number: 08902159
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120724
---
The present invention is generally directed to an apparatus for providing ergonomic support and situational sensory augmentation for a user. More specifically the present invention is directed to an apparatus which contacts different portions of the user s body to ease muscular strain promote healthy posture and maintain comfort for the user while providing sensory feedback as needed during a computer assisted activity.

Computer assisted activities are becoming increasingly prevalent and widespread. In just about every field of business and area of technology and across generally all walks of life user interaction with and within a computer generated environment is commonplace. Many activities involve some degree of computer rendered virtual reality where the interaction typically occurs through a hand held controller or other interface device physically manipulated by the user to enter controlling commands from his or her physical environment to the virtual environment. Examples include computer gaming remote robotic control training simulation or other such applications.

The interactive session in many of these applications tends to be both continual and prolonged. This puts considerable strain on the user in a number of respects. Perhaps most notably the need to hold a static body posture and maintain the isometric limb positions for extended periods to continually handle an interface device causes muscle strain and undue fatigue. That is particularly so when the user is naturally prone to poor posture and is much too mentally immersed in the interaction to exercise any conscious care over ergonomic positioning beyond the hand manipulations through which interaction with the virtual environment may exclusively occur.

Another less apparent source of strain during prolonged interactive sessions is the lack of physical stimulation except at the usual eyes hands and ears which typically serve as the sensory links between the physical and virtual environments. This not only dulls the interactive experience for the user it loads the cognitive processes of the user with the added burden of imagining those tactile sensations which cannot actually be delivered to other parts of his her body in the physical environment as they are in the virtual embodiment.

Various measures have been taken in the applicable arts to ease and enhance the user s interactive experience and to lessen the void between an interactive session s virtual and physical realities. Most of these measures have been directed to the goal of providing more realistic physical representations of virtual sensations. Such known measures include the use of so called haptic interfaces to provide tactile feedback to the user in addition to the visual and audial feedback he or she would normally receive during an interactive session. Typically the haptic interface is provided in the hand held controller device directly manipulated by the user to command actions within the virtual environment. Consequential effects of commanded actions may then be delivered to the user s physical environment in the form of vibrations or other tactile feedback felt through the manipulated controller itself. Haptic feedback in other more elaborate applications is additionally delivered during an interactive session through surrounding system fixtures and equipment like seating surfaces and gloves.

While these known haptic feedback measures add to the overall interactive experience they are limited in the portions of the user s body they affect and therefore limited in the degree of realism of the physical sensations that are imparted. Obviously many known interfaces bring rumbling or other tactile feedback to bear on the controller manipulating hand. Others apply similar tactile feedback to the back and bottom of the user when seated in a specially equipped system operating console. Yet these known interfaces fail to provide in a simple and portable device suitable delivery of localized tactile feedback to various other portions of the user s body like the elbow forearms thighs torso or the like.

Such known haptic feedback measures also lack suitable provision for improving the user s posture and ergonomic support while he she engages in an interactive session. That is users may slump while seated during an interactive session on haptic interface equipped seating surfaces just as well as they may while seated on any other seating surface. Likewise system equipment like haptic interface gloves may provide realistic feedback but do nothing for instance to relieve the strain on the users in holding their hands or forearms properly oriented and in place when postured during an interactive session.

Ergonomic chairs and various pillow type devices are known in the art. Some are even intended specifically for use during computer interactive sessions. Most however are not equipped with sufficient measures to provide any haptic feedback at all let alone in the manner noted above. Nor are those devices equipped with sufficient tactile feedback to remedy the types of deficiencies noted above.

There is therefore a need for an ergonomic support apparatus for use during a computer interactive session. There is a need for such apparatus which serves to ease muscular strain promote healthy posture and maintain comfort during an interactive session while providing situational sensory feedback to certain localized portions of the user s body.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an ergonomic support apparatus for use during a computer interactive session.

It is another object of the present invention to provide an ergonomic support apparatus which serves to ease muscular strain promote healthy posture and maintain comfort during an interactive session.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide an ergonomic support apparatus which delivers situational sensory feedback to certain localized portions of the user s body.

These and other objects are attained in an apparatus formed in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention for combined ergonomic support and situational sensory augmentation interface during an interactive session within a virtual environment generated by a computer system. The apparatus comprises a resilient body defining a mid portion extending laterally between a pair of side portions projecting transversely outward therefrom to terminate at respective free ends. The mid portion extends across a lap of a user. The mid and side portions collectively define an upper surface for hand and forearm support for the user and an inner side surface contoured about a cradle space for receiving a torso of the user in cradling manner. At least one actuator disposed on the resilient body is selectively driven in cooperation with the interactive session to generate tactile feedback to the user through at least one of the upper and inner side surfaces of the resilient body.

An ergonomic support apparatus formed in accordance with certain exemplary embodiments of the present invention delivers haptic feedback to a user in accordance with computer interactive user activity within a virtual environment generated by a computer system. The ergonomic support apparatus comprises a resilient body defining a bridge portion extending laterally between a pair of malleably reconfigurable wing portions projecting transversely outward therefrom to terminate at respective free ends. The bridge portion extends across a lap of a user. The bridge and wing portions collectively define an upper surface for hand and forearm support for the user and an inner side surface contoured about a cradle space for receiving a torso of the user in cradling manner. At least one actuator is disposed on the resilient body. The actuator is selectively driven in coordination with the computer interactive user activity to generate tactile feedback to the user s torso through at least one of the upper and inner side surfaces of the resilient body. A controller is disposed on the resilient body and coupled to the actuator. The controller communicates with the computer system to drive the actuator responsive thereto. The tactile feedback is thereby generated in time synchronized manner with progression of the computer interactive user activity within the virtual environment to augment sensory feedback to the user.

An ergonomic support apparatus formed in accordance with certain other exemplary embodiments of the present invention delivers haptic feedback to a user in accordance with computer interactive user activity within a virtual environment generated by a computer system. The ergonomic support apparatus comprises a resilient body defining a bridge portion extending laterally between a pair of wing portions projecting transversely outward therefrom to terminate at respective free ends. The bridge portion extends across a lap of a user. The bridge and wing portions collectively define an upper surface for hand and forearm support for the user as well as an inner side surface contoured about a cradle space for receiving a torso of the user in cradling manner. A plurality of actuators disposed on the resilient body are displaced one from the other to be selectively driven in coordination with the computer interactive user activity to generate tactile feedback at corresponding parts of the user s torso forearms and hands through at least one of the upper and inner side surfaces of the resilient body. A controller is disposed on said resilient body and coupled to the actuators which communicates with the computer system to drive the actuators responsive thereto in time synchronized manner with progression of the computer interactive user activity within the virtual environment. Sensory feedback to the user is thereby augmented. At least one communication device is disposed on the resilient body and coupled to the controller to establish an audio and video link with a remote site therethrough to maintain a real time trash talk link during the interactive session.

Generally an apparatus formed in accordance with certain exemplary embodiments of the present invention serves to provide comfortable ergonomic support of a user during extended periods of interaction with a computer controlled system. In doing so the apparatus reinforces optimal bodily posture which in turn promotes blood circulation relaxes muscles and eases orthopedic strain among other things. Resilient portions of the apparatus engage respective parts of a user s anatomy toward that end while one or more actuators provided with certain of those portions are selectively driven to provide situational augmentation of sensory feedback to enhance the user s interactive experience within a computer generated virtual environment. Preferably such resilient portions conform sufficiently to the user s anatomy to there maintain firm support and points of efficient delivery for sensory feedback.

Referring now to an apparatus formed in accordance with one exemplary embodiment of the present invention is illustrated. Apparatus includes a resilient body having a mid or bridge portion that extends laterally between a pair of side portions projecting transversely outward therefrom. The side portions flare outward much like wing portions from the bridge portion to terminate at respective free ends 

During use the mid portion is situated preferably to extend across the lap of a user while the wing portions extend about the opposed sides of the user s torso preferably at and around the user s abdominal core region. The bridge and wing portions collectively define a table or shelf like upper surface segment which wraps partially around the user s torso such that the user may easily rest his her hands forearms and or elbows thereon while handling a controller device for the interactive session. The bridge and wing portions thereby define an inner side surface contoured about a cradle space for snuggly receiving the user s torso in cradling manner. Preferably substantial portions of this inner side surface approaching the terminal ends maintains close contact with the user s abdominal core. As described in following paragraphs even the ends may be configured in certain embodiments to bend or curve inward toward the cradle space to broaden the area of contact with the user s abdominal core see and help to keep the resilient body in place.

The combined effect of the mildly fitted engagement which results of the user s waist region is to firm up the laterally supporting contact about much of the user s abdominal core and establish a base contact surface through which to deliver supplementary tactile feedback to the user. Preferably the bottom surfaces extending underneath the wing portions and continuing underneath respective portions of the bridge portion each define a concave contour suitably oriented for conformed fit over parts of the seated user s upper thighs. This stabilizes the resilient body in its cradling position about the user s abdominal core while further extending the base contact surface through which to deliver other supplementary tactile feedback to the user.

At least one actuator is disposed on the resilient body and selectively driven in cooperation with the interactive session to generate tactile feedback to the user. Preferably the actuated tactile feedback is delivered through at least one of the upper inner side and bottom surfaces defined by the resilient body . Alternatively the actuated tactile feedback may be delivered to the user through any other surface or part of the resilient body which suitably contacts the user s body during an interactive session.

Each actuator employed on the resilient body may be embedded within the body or disposed on a surface of the body depending on the particular requirements of the intended application nature of the actuator employed and other such application specific factors. Any suitable actuator known in the art may be used to provide tactile output responsive to the computer system controlling the interactive session or responsive to one or more user controllers providing commands and other input to the computer system during the interactive session. Examples of such actuators include transducers of various electromechanical electroacoustic thermoelectric or electropneumatic type. They include the various haptic interfaces known in the art which respond in suitably synchronized manner to virtual events as they unfold within a virtual environment generated by the given game simulation or other computer system.

The actuators may be positioned on the resilient body to deliver haptic feedback to at least one corresponding area of the user s torso forearms or thighs. Preferably a combination of these actuators are provided on the resilient body displaced one from the other. In a computer gaming application for instance at least two forward actuators at the user s front left and right abdominal areas and at least two rearward actuators at the side left right abdominal areas would be preferable to provide sufficient supplementary feedback coverage. Regardless of the number employed the variously situated actuators are controlled in coordinated manner selectively driven to deliver haptic feedback to one or more corresponding areas of the user s torso forearms or thighs.

Their coordinated actuation would then deliver localized physical sensations to these different areas of the user s body as necessary to match the action he she is experiencing in the virtual realm. For example if the user were to receive a blow to his her left side during an encounter with a foe in a computer gaming environment actuators of suitable type may be actuated to momentarily deflect or vibrate to emulate the blow s force of impact on his her left abdominal side. Similarly if the user were to experience an inferno off to his her right during that computer gaming encounter one or more actuators and of suitable type may be actuated to apply corresponding heat to the user s abdominal side forearm and or thigh on that right side. Furthermore if the user were to experience a nearby explosion in that computer gaming encounter all actuators of suitable type may be actuated to momentarily vibrate and thereby emulate the explosive shockwave.

The versatility of response may be enhanced in certain embodiments by equipping one or more of the actuators to actually be a set of similarly situated but separately actuable transducers of more than one type. That is each actuator site may include a combination of electromechanical electroacoustic thermoelectric and or electropneumatic transducers which may be independently actuated as needed to generate the particular type of tactile sensation s appropriate for the virtual encounter taking place force pressure vibration heating cooling or the like .

In certain embodiments one or more of the actuators may themselves serve in a sensing mode to receive tactile input applied by the user s body and generate a supplemental control input for the given computer system. Otherwise additional sensing elements of any suitable type known in the art may be employed at or near certain actuator sites for this purpose. Movement or pressure applied by the user through his her forearms torso and or thighs may then be transduced to affect the command input provided by the user during the interactive session. The added sources of command input would ease the finger dexterity required to manipulate a given handheld controller. They would also relieve the complexity typical of such handheld controllers to a limited number of control buttons to launch different types of commands.

For example certain secondary control buttons provided on a handheld controlling device such as for function keys or mode selection switches may be designated for control by the supplemental command input picked up by the sensing elements defined on the resilient body . The user may then devote his her hand and actual finger manipulations to the primary controls like direction pointing action initiating and such. Alternatively the supplemental command input picked up by the sensing elements defined on the resilient body may be passed directly on to the host computer system for added dimensions of control command for directly affecting the virtual action.

In certain other embodiments one or more of the actuators may constitute or include an electroacoustic transducer that generates sufficiently audible acoustic signals to supplement the sound effects provided during the interactive session. In a gaming session for instance the gaming console which serves as the controlling computer system and or the handheld controller manipulated by the user provide sound effects to round out the interactive experience with the virtual realm. The sound effects are becoming increasingly sophisticated. Acoustic devices suitably situated at different points along the resilient body and suitably activated in concert with other constituent audio may facilitate the delivery of the same making for a richer more realistic sound effect overall. Acoustic devices physically displaced from the primary source s projecting the other audio would enhance the stereophonic effect of the combined sound. Sound effects like the directional boom of explosions on a virtual battlefield the electronic zapping of a cyber gun during a virtual firefight or the cracking impact of a hit during virtual football game action may notably benefit from such supplemental sound source devices. Where necessary the devices could also serve as substitute sources of the sound should the primary source s be unavailable for some reason.

Preferably the resilient body is formed with a layered structure of soft cotton like material partially or wholly padded externally with an elastomeric material such as memory foam or the like. Portions of the resilient body may be formed of elastomeric material gel filled material or some other resilient yet firm material with sufficient durability to repeatedly withstand extended periods of continuous use. Alternatively the resilient body may be integrally formed of such resiliently firm material. Depending on the particular application the resilient body may be formed with any other suitable material s and structure s known in the art to maintain the combined degree of resilience and structural integrity required to maintain comfortable ergonomic support of the user and facilitate effective delivery of sensory feedback.

The apparatus includes in the exemplary embodiment illustrated a striping member applied to extend along a predetermined pattern over the outer surface of the resilient body . The striping member when employed may describe any suitable pattern on the resilient body other than that shown. The striping member preferably serves several combined purposes. First it may be used as shown to add an aesthetically striking design to the apparatus . In this regard the striping member may be varied in shape configuration relative dimensions orientation color texture and the like relative to the resilient body to suitably vary its design impact.

When applied to the resilient body as a tape like member it serves to protectively cover certain portions of the resilient body and its coupled components. The striping member may for example protectively cover and retain one or more of the actuators which may have been provided as patch like devices either attached to an outer surface of the resilient body or within a pocket or recess formed in that outer surface. In other examples the striping member may also be configured to extend along and protectively cover trench like creases or grooves that may be formed in the outer surfaces of the resilient body to serve as conduits for wiring routed to from the actuators or any other component employed like controller power source sensors acoustic devices and the like .

The striping member may itself be formed of an elastomeric foam or other such resilient material. It would then provide an added layer of cushion to reinforce certain physical interfaces between the user and the resilient body .

Referring to the apparatus may be used by a seated user typically by drawing the mid bridge portion of the resilient body snuggly against his front abdominal area. The bridge portion then extends transversely across his lap with the concavely curved bottom surfaces receiving the top portions of each thigh. The wing portions project from the bridge portion to extend around the user s torso just above his waist. The bridge and wing portions together provide a comfortable shelf like support stabilized over the user s lap. The user may comfortably rest his forearms and elbows to in turn support the upper part of his body in a substantially upright healthy posture while seated. This keeps the user from slouching forward as would otherwise occur when the user s arm and back muscles tire during an extended gaming or other such computer interactive session and drops his forearms and elbows for some measure of support. Because his abdominal area is cradled by the bridge and wing portions and the bottom surfaces conform to the undulating contours of his lap the resilient body tends to remain in place even when the user shifts his weight between elbows or directs squirming movement to his torso. The cushion contact with the resilient body maintains user comfort and relaxation through the extended periods of intense focus and occasional spurts of excited tension which typify many gaming sessions.

Obviously the degree of comfort provided by apparatus will depend on the degree to which it fits a particular user s body. To allow for custom adjustments toward that end apparatus in certain alternative embodiments include one or more malleable frame members embedded therein. The malleability of the skeletal frame members then enables portions of the resilient body to be reconfigured in shape to suit the user s particular body type and size. Each of the wing portions for instance may be bent toward or away from one another to re shape re size the cradle space . Similarly the end parts of each wing portion may be bent inward as illustrated in to more closely engage the user s torso and prevent loosening of the cradled engagement thereof.

Such malleable frame members may be formed of any suitable material known in the art with sufficient malleability and strength to withstand repeated reconfiguration without premature fatigue and failure. A bendable metal material or the like of sufficient dimension to avoid excessive weighting of the apparatus may be employed.

When used such malleable frame members may be fully embedded inside the resilient body during fabrication. Alternatively one or more such members may be insertable in corresponding bores accessible through an opening formed at a discrete part of the resilient body such as a part normally covered by the striping member .

In certain other embodiments such as illustrated in individual frame members may provide convenient connecting measures for connecting detachable portions of the resilient body . For example each of the wing portions may be formed as detachable modules joined to the bridge portion at the respective joints . As illustrated for one of these modular portions the detachable wing portion and the bridge portion are respectively formed with elongate internal bores . A malleable frame member in the form of a bendable rod may insert partially into the wing portion s bore and insert partially into the bridge portion s bore to join the two portions together. The resulting structure would then be malleable to form at any point along the length of this bendable rod . Any suitable measures may be taken to fasten the joint such as fastening members on the adjoining end faces of the two portions . Depending on the combination of materials selected for the portions and the rod member the natural frictional engagement of the rod tightly fitted within the bores may be sufficient to retain the joint for most applications. Moreover the striping member if employed may also reinforce the joint s retention in such applications.

It is not unusual for interactive sessions of different individuals to be linked together. In that way individuals even at different geographic locations to remotely link their interaction sessions for a shared virtual experience. In a computer gaming application for instance the linked individuals may then collaborate with or compete with one another within the same virtual environment. Where the linked computer systems gaming consoles do not provide for real time communication through the virtual environment through sound effects and visual graphics generated within the virtual environment audio and or video measures may be provided on the device for real time communication between the participating individuals during the linked interactive session. This would establish and maintain a real time communications link through which the individuals may talk with and view one another during the interactive session. This not only allows for the exchange of information needed for a productive interactive session it allows for the users to indulge in real time trash talk or share other friendly amusing banter to enhance the interactive experience.

Such a real time link may simply be established through personal communication devices separately operated by the linked individuals such as telephones smart phones skype phones or the like. In accordance with certain exemplary embodiments the apparatus is equipped with measures to accommodate in this regard. As illustrated in a docking station may be formed into a portion of the resilient body such as the bridge portion . This docking station would conveniently receive a smart phone or other communication device therein. The docking station preferably provides a recessed compartment for stable support of the communication devices as well as USB or other such interface connection suitable for the particular communication device so that it may be recharged during use. The communication device may also be interconnected thereby for communication with a local controller within the apparatus the gaming console or the handheld control device to realize other supplemental functions in the intended application.

Depending on the capabilities of the communication device the participating individuals may then carry on a teleconference like interaction in the physical realm while concurrently carrying on their interaction in the virtual realm. In alternate embodiments apparatus may be equipped with auxiliary microphone speaker and camera monitor components in place of or in addition to the docking station . Those auxiliary components would be coupled to a local power source and either a local controller gaming console and or controlling device as necessary to establish a conferencing link between the participating individuals.

Various other accessory components may be provided on the apparatus to suit the particular requirements of different intended applications. Light emitting diodes LED or other sources of visual indicia may be provided on different portions of the resilient body . For example various LED components may be accordingly situated to provide desired mood lighting. They may be selectively activated to signify different system conditions or just to vary the aesthetic appearance of the apparatus .

In certain other embodiments the resilient body may be enclosed within a jacket sleeve or some other form of flexible protective cover. Additionally one or more storage pockets may be formed on a surface of the resilient body . One example is illustrated in where a pocket is defined along each of the bottom surfaces within which to stow a controlling device connection cables and or other such accessories between interactive sessions.

Turning now to there is shown a block diagram schematically illustrating the intercoupling of units in a functional system operating within apparatus in accordance with one exemplary embodiment of the present invention to implement various functional features disclosed herein. System in this example is configured for illustrative purposes to suit a computer gaming application but may be suitably configured for use in various other applications and contexts. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize that the block diagram is highly simplified with numerous components such as dynamic and static storage devices switching devices and the like omitted in the interests of brevity and clarity. The exemplary system preferably includes a hub unit to which the various operational accessories components are coupled for operational control. The hub unit preferably includes a microprocessor based local controller programmably configured in a manner suitable for the intended application to communicate with devices outside the apparatus execute the software necessary to maintain control over the various units of system . The hub unit also includes a power supply coupled either to a direct current DC source such as a portable battery source which may be provided within the resilient body in certain embodiments or to an alternating current AC source such as a standard electrical wall outlet available at a given site. The power supply is suitably configured to adapt the externally supplied power levels to meet the power requirements of the various units employed in system .

Among the operational units coupled to the hub unit is an actuator unit which preferably includes a plurality of individual actuators which may be implemented as the variously positioned actuators on the resilient body as shown in . The individual actuators are preferably actuated independently by the local controller responsive to the virtual events as they unfold during the given interactive session.

Like the other units of system actuator unit is shown coupled to the hub unit via a single connection line. The interconnection is represented this way for gravity and clarity and one skilled in the art will recognize that such interconnection may actually include a plurality of individual interconnection paths between the individual actuators and each of the local controller and power supply portions of the hub unit . Preferably such interconnection between the actuator unit and the hub unit is made through an actuator interface unit which provides the digital to analog and analog to digital conversions and other such signal conditioning that may be required for proper signal interface between the units and the particularly intended application.

As described in preceding paragraphs the actuators are preferably implemented in the form of feedback devices of any suitable type known in the art. In this regard the local controller of the hub unit communicates with either the host computer system for the given interaction session such as the gaming console in the given application or the user s handheld or other controlling device via communication links and a super communication interface . The communication interface provides the necessary modulation demodulation buffering protocol conversion or any other suitable adaptation measures to preserve compatibility between the hub unit and the external system and device . Communications between the local controller and the external system and or the external controlling device preferably employs a suitable application programming interface API which establishes a particular set of rules and specifications followed by software programs executing in the system device and local controller . This shared interface enables haptic interface signals to be exchanged between those software programs such that the local controller may generate or pass on appropriate commands to cause electromechanical electroacoustic thermoelectric or electropneumatic response by the various actuators in substantially real time response to the virtual action generated by the computer system . As mentioned such haptic response may be based on interface signals obtained by the local controller from either the computer system or the controlling device . In certain alternate embodiments one or more of the actuators may receive the interface signals directly that is without intervention of a local controller to be controlled directly by either the computer system or the controlling device for appropriate haptic response.

While the communication links and are represented as wireless links either or both of these communication links may be implemented as physically wired links. Likewise while the links between the computer system and each of the display and controlling device are shown as hardwired links either of these links may be actually be implemented as a wireless link as well.

Referring back to the units within system various other auxiliary units may be operably coupled to the hub unit in various embodiments. For example a sensor unit may be coupled via a sensor interface . As described in preceding paragraphs the sensor unit may include a plurality of sensors variously positioned on the resilient body which serve as detection pickup devices to provide controlling input ultimately for use by the computer system and or the controlling device . One or more of the sensors may be implemented by corresponding actuators actuated in a reverse mode of operation to generate such control input signal in response to detection of mechanical force thermal deviation or the like in the user. Like the actuator interface sensor interface is preferably employed in such embodiments to provide what signal conditioning may be necessary for signal compatibility with hub unit .

A docking station unit when employed is also preferably coupled to the hub unit . The docking station unit would suitably connect a communication device docked therein at least to the power supply so that the internal power source of that communication device would not be depleted during use but in fact restored and charged if necessary. The docking station unit may also interconnect the communication device to the local controller for interactive communication with the computer system depending on the particular requirements of the intended application.

Other auxiliary units which may be similarly coupled to the hub unit include audio video capture unit and audio video presentation unit . These units where employed would provide the necessary microphone camera speaker and display devices to preferably provide a real time video conferencing or at least teleconferencing capability with a remote co participant in the interactive session where a suitable communication device or a docking station unit for its docking is unavailable. Other auxiliary units that may be coupled to the hub unit include an indicia unit which may be equipped with an LED or various alarm alert devices to provide status indications or other such conspicuous alerts for a user who may be too engrossed in the interaction session to otherwise take note of certain noteworthy possibly even critical system conditions.

Although this invention has been described in connection with specific forms and embodiments thereof it will be appreciated that various modifications other than those discussed above may be resorted to without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. For example equivalent elements may be substituted for those specifically shown and described certain features may be used independently of other features and in certain cases particular applications of elements may be reversed or interposed all without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

