---

title: Predictive cursor interaction
abstract: Embodiments include providing multiple discernible indicia that provide an indication of behaviors associated with selection of a particular link. The multiple discernible indicia may include visually-discernible graphical icons configured to be displayed as a pictorial image that visually represents a behavior associated with selection of the particular link. The visually-discernible graphical icons may include a first icon that, when selected, causes a default behavior associated with the link selection to occur, and a second icon that, when selected, causes an alternative behavior associated with the link selection to occur. Also, responsive to receiving a user-provided modifier, the first or second icon may be replaced with a third icon that visually represents a different alternative behavior to occur that is different than both the default and alternative behaviors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223466&OS=09223466&RS=09223466
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09223466
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120123
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 243 909 filed on Oct. 5 2005 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The action of clicking a link on for example a web page can produce many different behaviors and as such is not predictable. After clicking a link a new window might be opened a new tab might be created another application might launch or the application if a web browser might navigate in place. As such end users do not have a good way of predicting which behavior will occur.

Various embodiments can add predictability to user interactions with links that they encounter. In addition to adding predictability various embodiments can enable a user to affect or change the behavior that is associated with a particular link selection. In at least some embodiments a user is provided with discernible indicia that provide an indication of a behavior associated with selecting a particular link. In at least some embodiments software executing as part of an end user application makes a determination that a user is about to or is likely to select a particular link. Once the application makes this determination that application can cause the discernible indicia to be presented to the user. Such indicia provide the user with an indication of the behavior that is to be performed in the event the user selects the particular link of interest.

Various embodiments described in this document provide a user with discernible indicia that provide an indication of a behavior associated with selecting a particular link. In at least some embodiments software executing as part of an end user application makes a determination that a user is about to or is likely to select a particular link. Once the application makes this determination that application can cause the discernible indicia to be presented to the user. Such indicia provide the user with an indication of the behavior that is to be performed in the event the user selects the particular link of interest.

In the examples described below the discernible indicia resides in the form of visually discernible indicia. It is to be appreciated and understood however that other user discernible indicia could be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter. For example audibly discernible indicia might be used in place of or in combination with the visually discernible indicia.

In at least some embodiments the indicia can be presented seemingly instantly such as when the application determines that a link selection is likely to be made. In yet other embodiments the indicia can be presented in a delayed fashion for reasons that are discussed below. In further embodiments the indicia can be displayed responsive to other user actions.

In other embodiments the visual indicia that are displayed for the user provide the user with the ability to change what can be considered as a default behavior associated with selecting the link. Hence the user is given flexibility in selecting the way in which data associated with the link is consumed.

In the discussion that follows a section entitled Visually discernible Indicia as a Visual Indication of a Behavior describes the general notion of using visual indicia to provide the user with a visual indication as to what is going to happen if the user selects a particular link. Following this a section entitled Instantaneous Display describes one embodiment in which the display of the indicia takes place seemingly instantaneously and a section entitled Delayed Display describes an embodiment in which the display of the indicia takes place in a delayed manner. Following this a section entitled Display on Mouse Down describes an embodiment in which the display of the indicia takes place when the user depresses a mouse button. A section entitled Changing Default Behavior Associated with Link Selection follows and describes the notion of a user being able to change a default behavior associated with making a link selection. Finally an In Operation section describes one specific implementation example.

Preliminarily in the description below the various embodiments are described in the context of a specific end user application in the form of a web browser. This is done to provide the reader with a particular context in which the embodiments can be employed. It is to be appreciated and understood that the embodiments described in this document can be employed in the context of other applications other than web browsers without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter. Such other applications can include by way of example and not limitation word processing applications spreadsheet applications email applications visual presentation applications and the like.

Further in the specific example that is described to provide context the manner in which the user indicates that they are about to select a particular link is by hovering a visual input icon such as cursor over a particular link. It is to be appreciated and understood that other user indications can be utilized without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter.

There are a number of different behaviors that can occur when a user selects a particular link. For example a navigation can occur in place meaning that in the web browser context a new web page is presented to the user in the browser window that they currently have open. Alternately or additionally selecting a link can cause a new window to be opened or can cause a new foreground or background tab to be opened in the browser. Further other behaviors can include launching an application that then takes some action. For example if the link is associated with a multimedia file then a multimedia player application may likely be launched as a result of the user selecting the link. In the past when the user has been faced with a link and a selection they did not know what behavior was going to occur as a result of selecting the link.

Consider now which shows an excerpt of text such as that which might appear as part of a displayed web page. In this example the user has hovered their cursor over the dash encircled text indicating that they may likely select the link associated with that text. Responsive to detecting this hovering activity the application in this case the web browser displays visually discernible indicia in the form of a tab icon . Tab icon provides a visual indication that tells the user that if they select this link the behavior that is going to be performed is that a new tab is going to be opened in the user s web browser. As an example of what a tab looks like consider which shows an exemplary browser window and three exemplary tabs and . Each tab in this example is associated with a different web page.

Consider now which shows an excerpt of text such as that which might appear as part of a displayed web page. In this example the user has hovered their cursor over the dash encircled text indicating that they may likely select the link associated with that text. Responsive to detecting this hovering activity the application in this case the web browser displays visually discernible indicia in the form of a new window icon . New window icon provides a visual indication that tells the user that responsive to selecting the link associated with the text the behavior that is going to be performed is that a new window is going to be opened.

Consider now which shows an excerpt of text such as that which might appear as part of a displayed web page. In this example the user has hovered their cursor over the dash encircled text indicating that they may likely select the link associated with that text. Responsive to detecting this hovering activity the application in this case the web browser displays visually discernible indicia in the form of a media player icon . Media player icon provides a visual indication that tells the user that responsive to selecting the link associated with the text the behavior that is going to be performed is that a media playing application is going to be opened up.

It is to be appreciated and understood that any number of behaviors can be performed and that each can have its own suitable visually discernible indicia displayed for the user. Accordingly it is not the intent of this document to exhaustively describe each and every behavior or its associated indicia. Accordingly other behaviors and indicia can be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter.

In addition while visually discernible indicia in the form of icons have been described it is to be appreciated and understood that other indicia can be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter. For example such visually discernible indicia may include text used solely or in conjunction with an icon.

Having described the notion of visually discernible indicia that is used as an indication of an associated behavior consider now some various ways in which the indicia can be presented to a user.

In one embodiment the visually discernible indicia can be displayed in a seemingly instantaneous manner when a user provides an indication that they will likely select a particular link. For example as soon as a user hovers their cursor over a particular link an associated icon may instantaneously appear for the user to view.

In other embodiments when a user hovers their cursor over a particular link there may be a predefined delay of time before the visually discernible indicia is presented to the user. For example once the user hovers their cursor over a particular link a few seconds may elapse before the indicia are displayed. This embodiment can be employed in the context of web pages that include a large number of links to prevent a user from being overwhelmed with the number of indicia that are displayed when for example the user moves their cursor around the page.

In other embodiments the indicia can be displayed when the user hovers the cursor over the link and presses down on a mouse key. That is presentation of the indicia happens upon a mouse down activity. Then when the mouse button is released the selection induced behavior occurs. In this particular embodiment the user can escape out of the pending behavior by navigating the mouse off of the link.

In some embodiments a user is provided with an opportunity to change a default behavior associated with a particular link. As an example consider the following.

Assume that a user hovers the cursor over a link that is associated with a new web page. In this instance a default behavior associated with the link might be to perform an in place navigation. In this embodiment by using one or more so called modifiers the user can change the behavior that is to occur. Specifically assume that the user does not wish to have an in place navigation occur but would rather prefer to have a new tab opened in their browser. In this example the user might hold down the CTRL key while hovering the cursor over the link. In this case a new tab icon might be presented to indicate to the user that the behavior associated with selecting that link will be to open a new browser tab and associate that tab with the web page of interest.

Assume instead that the user forgets for a moment the particular modifier that is used to open a new tab. In this instance the user might only remember a set of modifiers that can be used to modify the behavior associated with link selection. In this instance the user might hover their cursor and hold down the SHIFT key. In this case the user might be presented with a new window icon. Recognizing that this is not their desired selection the user might then try holding the CTRL key at which time the appropriate icon is presented and the user can have the new tab opened in their current browser window.

As an example shows an exemplary excerpt of text associated with a link and the various icons associated with the modifiers in the example above.

Consider now the situation in which rather than having the user access the icons by using modifiers once the user hovers their cursor over a particular link they are presented with a plurality of icons that provide visual indications as to the various behaviors that can be caused by selecting a link. As an example consider which illustrates an excerpt of text associated with a link and a plurality of icons that are simultaneously presented to the user from which to select. Note that in this embodiment as in the embodiments described above the user need not provide a mouse input other than hovering the cursor in order to have the indicia exposed to them. That is the indicia can be exposed to the user independent of the user clicking the mouse when the mouse is used as the input device. This effectively provides the user with an entry point to making their selection which is not a right click context menu type action.

Step ascertains that a user is likely to select a particular link. This step can be performed in any suitable way. In but one embodiment the likelihood of link selection is ascertained when a user hovers their cursor over a particular link. One way that a user can hover their cursor is by using a mouse. It is to be appreciated and understood that other input devices such as a finger pad point device and the like can be used without departing from then spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter.

Step provides responsive to determining the likely link selection discernible indicia that provides an indication to the user of a behavior that is associated with selecting that link. Any suitable user discernible indicia can be provided such as audibly discernible visually discernible or both.

For example in embodiments that utilize visually discernible indicia this step can be performed by displaying a single icon either instantaneously or in a delayed fashion. Alternately or additionally this step can be performed by displaying multiple icons. In addition in the multiple icon embodiments such can be displayed together or separately. When displayed separately the icons can be displayed when for example a user uses modifiers such as those described above.

In operation code executing in the application detects that the user is hovering the cursor over a link. In addition a link typically includes or is associated with a character string that includes characters that can provide a hint that is associated with the behavior that is performed upon selecting the link. For example the hint may come in the form of a file extension e.g. .wmv or other parameters which provide a hint of the behavior that will be performed upon link selection e.g. launching a media player . Other hints can be provided in the form of certain parameters that are associated with the link such as window.open or tag parameters as will be appreciated by the skilled artisan. In addition a site itself could provide hints about the behavior that will occur.

Accordingly a set of hints are supported and are associated with a set of behaviors or actions. Further a set of indicia are associated with the set of actions and can be maintained in the local registry. Once the particular hint is ascertained the action can be ascertained and the code can then look in the local registry to retrieve and display the icon for the user.

The embodiments described above add predictability to user interactions with links. In addition to adding predictability various embodiments can enable a user to affect or change the behavior that is associated with a particular link selection.

Although the invention has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological steps it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or steps described. Rather the specific features and steps are disclosed as preferred forms of implementing the claimed invention.

