---

title: User interface displaying communication information
abstract: A processor aggregates communications data received from one or more data sources via a communications network. The processor associates the aggregated communications data with supplemental data. The associated communications data is correlated based on temporal data, a tag, a query, and/or a command. A graphical user interface (GUI) is formatted based on the correlated communications data. The formatted GUI is provided to a display device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08805714&OS=08805714&RS=08805714
owner: IPC Systems, Inc.
number: 08805714
owner_city: Jersey City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120119
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 434 708 filed Jan. 20 2011 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Example aspects of the present invention generally relate to a user interface and more particularly to systems methods and computer program products for providing a user interface displaying communication information that is of relevance to an end user such as a financial trader.

In the financial industry it is common for a group of financial traders to be members of a trading desk that is managed by a head financial trader. As part of their duties each of the traders often communicates with various parties e.g. buyers and sellers of financial instruments by using various means e.g. voice calls instant messages e mails . In some cases the traders communicate with multiple parties at a time discussing trades market information and or other relevant information. For the head trader to effectively manage the trading desk the head trader is required to quickly analyze various types of information such as trader communications market information and other relevant information as well as the relationships between these types of information.

However with the vast volume of trades taking place in today s financial markets and the limitless trader communications market information and other relevant information such rapid analysis of relevant information may require significant time and effort and in some cases may even be impractical.

The example embodiments described herein meet the above identified needs by providing systems methods and computer program products for providing a user interface.

In one example embodiment a processor aggregates communications data received from one or more data sources via a communications network. The processor associates the aggregated communications data with supplemental data. The associated communications data is correlated based on temporal data a tag a query and or a command. A graphical user interface GUI is formatted based on the correlated data. The formatted GUI is provided to a display device.

Further features and advantages as well as the structure and operation of various example embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The example embodiments of the invention presented herein are directed to systems methods and computer program products for providing a user interface displaying communications data which are now described herein in terms of an example trading environment. This description is not intended to limit the application of the example embodiments presented herein. In fact after reading the following description it will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art s how to implement the following invention in alternative environments such as a services based environment a web services based environment and or the like.

Some terms are defined below for easy reference. However it should be understood that the defined terms are not rigidly restricted to their definitions. A term may be further defined by its use in other sections of this description.

 Device means software hardware or a combination thereof. A device may sometimes be referred to as an apparatus. Examples of a device include without limitation a laptop computer a database a server a display a computer mouse and a hard disk.

 Graphical user interface GUI element means any element of a GUI such as for example a window a menu an icon a control a widget an adjustment handle a tab a text box a button i.e. a soft button a hyperlink a drop down list a list box a check box a radio button a cycle button a datagrid and or the like.

 Network means a connection between any two or more computers which permits the transmission of data. A network may be any combination of networks including without limitation the Internet a network of networks a local area network e.g. home network intranet a wide area network a wireless network and a cellular network.

 Server means a software application that provides services to other computer programs and their users in the same or another computer. A server may also refer to the physical computer that has been set aside to run a specific server application. For example when the software Apache HTTP Server is used as the web server for a company s website the computer running Apache is also called the web server. Server applications can be divided among server computers over an extreme range depending upon the workload.

 Software and application mean a computer program that is written in a programming language that may be used by one of ordinary skill in the art. The programming language chosen should be compatible with the computer by which the software application is to be executed and in particular with the operating system of that computer. Examples of suitable programming languages include without limitation Object Pascal C C and Java. Further the functions of some embodiments when described as a series of steps for a method could be implemented as a series of software instructions for being operated by a processor such that the embodiments could be implemented as software hardware or a combination thereof. Non transitory computer readable media are discussed in more detail in a separate section below.

 Tag means a type of metadata e.g. a keyword or a term assigned to an item of information. In general a tag helps describe the item to which it is assigned and allows the item to be found again via browsing searching entering a command entering a query and or the like. As described in further detail below example tags include a particular filter option a particular connections option a particular group by option a name of a party or trader a name of a party to a communication a ticker symbol of a particular stock and or the like. However these example tags should not be construed as limiting.

 Temporal data generally means any data relating to time such as a particular time or a sequence of time.

The server is communicatively coupled via communications network to one or more data sources including the communications system the market data provider the contact management system and or other data source s . In general the server utilizes data received from each of the one or more data sources to generate and present to a user e.g. a head financial trader a GUI displaying communications information and or other relevant information.

The server receives communications data from the communications system via the communication network . Communications data in this context generally refers to any type of data associated with a communication between two or more parties. Example types of communications data include call data records CDR instant message IM activity e mail activity an originating telephone number a destination telephone number and or the like. Communications data may also include temporal data associated with a communication such as a time duration of a communication a start time of a communication an end time of a communication etc. In one example embodiment the communications system communicates by using web services such as extensible markup language XML and or hypertext transfer protocol HTTP. According to another example embodiment the server utilizes a publicly available application programming interface API to retrieve communications data from the communication system via standard Internet Protocol IP communication protocols. One example of communication system includes a private branch exchange PBX .

In one example embodiment the server also receives market data from the market data provider via the communication network . Market data in this context generally refers to any type of data associated with any type of market such as a financial market. Example types of market data include financial index data e.g. from the S P 500 NASDAQ OMX etc. individual stock performance over time etc. Another example type of market data is temporal market data such as a time associated with a particular stock price financial index value and or the like. The market data provider communicates market data in the form of one or more financial market data feeds multicasting communications using Transfer Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP according to one example.

The server receives contact data from the contact management system via the communication network . Contact data in this context generally refers to any type of data associated with contacts e.g. customers business entities other traders employees within a business etc. . An example type of contact data is information from customers and or trading partners such as for example a name of a trader a company and or an asset class associated with a particular phone number. In one example embodiment the server associates contact data with communications data by utilizing a predetermined mapping of particular phone numbers to particular contacts.

The particular types of data sources shown in should not be construed as limiting. Other data source s such as order management systems and execution management systems may be included in system to provide server with data such as order history and recent transaction information.

Included in server or located external to server is a database in which various types of data are stored. As described in further detail below with reference to the server aggregates associates and correlates the data received from the one or more data sources e.g. communications data received from the communications system market data received from the market data provider contact data received from the contact management system and or other types of data received from other data source s and stores the data in database .

Also included in server is a presentation module which as described in further detail below with reference to presents a GUI displaying communications information market information and or other relevant information to user via computer . In particular the presentation module formats a graphical user interface GUI and provides the formatted GUI via for example a communications network not shown to a display device such as a display device of the computer . In one example embodiment the computer is part of a financial trading system such as a trading turret used by a head trader who manages a trading desk associated with multiple other traders. As will be described in further detail below with reference to the GUI provides via computer various real time or pseudo real time and or historical views of communications information and or other relevant information e.g. market information in a manner that is easy to understand and to obtain new insights from.

An example business logic module and presentation module that may be used in accordance with various example embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to . As shown in business logic module includes an aggregating module an associating module a correlating module and a storing retrieving module . In general the aggregating module aggregates the data received from the one or more data sources . The associating module associates the communications data received from the communications system with supplemental data received from one or more of the other data sources . The correlation module correlates the data received from the one or more data sources based on one or more criteria e.g. temporal data . The storing retrieving module stores the data received from the one or more data sources .

Presentation module includes a formatting module and a user interface UI command module . In general the formatting module formats the data received from the one or more data sources . The UI command module receives commands or queries that were inputted into computer via the GUI and forwards the commands or queries to the formatting module .

At block the aggregating module aggregates data received from the one or more data sources via communication network . Example types of data aggregated by the aggregating module include communication data market data supplemental data e.g. contact data etc. as described in further detail above although these examples should not be construed as limiting. According to one example embodiment the aggregating module aggregates communications data e.g. history of communications between parties and or trading desks etc. . The aggregated data can be processed e.g. associated correlated formatted etc. and presented in real time or pseudo real time or can be stored in database to be processed and presented a later time as historical data.

Optionally according to another example embodiment the aggregating module aggregates market data e.g. one or more stock price data feeds received from one or more of the market data provider s . As shown in the example of both options i.e. the aggregating of communications data and of market data are shown for convenience.

The aggregating module also normalizes contact information using a communications handle e.g. a phone number as a key from various systems including for example a CRM system an OMS etc. The aggregating module then forwards at least a portion of the aggregated data to the associated module .

At block the associating module associates the aggregated communications data with supplemental data such as contact data received from one or more of the data sources . In one example embodiment the associating module associates the communications data with contact data e.g. name company asset class of trades value of trades at a particular time a trading desk associated with a telephone number that is received from a Customer Relationship Management CRM system an Order Management System OMS a company directory e.g. using Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP and or a Personal Directory e.g. from Microsoft Outlook .

Whereas some communications data may indicate only high level call details e.g. that a telephone call lasting five minutes originated from phone number A to phone number B the communications data may be associated with corresponding contact data received from the contact management system to indicate more detailed information e.g. that the telephone call originated from a person named D who is a seller of gold at bank E to a person named F who is a buyer of gold at bank G .

After associating the data as described above the associating module then forwards at least a portion of the associated data to the correlating module . At block the correlating module correlates the aggregated communications data based on one or more criteria such as temporal data e.g. a start or end time of a communication a tag e.g. a name of a party to a particular communication a query and or a command. In one example the correlating module mines the communications data for any corresponding temporal data. The correlating module then uses the temporal data as an index or key for chronologically correlating the aggregated communications data associated supplemental data and or the aggregated market data. The correlating module then forwards at least a portion of the correlated data to the storing retrieving module .

Optionally according to another example embodiment the correlating module correlates aggregated market data based on one or more criteria such as aggregated communications data supplemental data temporal data e.g. a time associated with a particular stock price a tag e.g. a ticker symbol of a particular stock a query and or a command.

At block the storing retrieving module stores at least a portion of the data received from the one or more data sources . The stored data may be in raw form i.e. in the same form as received from the one or more data sources and or in a form outputted by one of the aggregating module the associating module and or the correlating module .

Once stored in database the data is available to be retrieved by the formatting module for formatting block into a GUI. Alternatively the formatting module may format data block into a GUI as it is received from one or more of the other modules i.e. in real time or pseudo real time . In general the GUI is formatted so as to present views to user that enable easy digestion of complex and varying data sets.

Once correlated the communications data can be displayed via a GUI in a time based manner. For example as described in further detail below the communications data can be presented via the GUI as a synchronized timeline. Also the communications data can be presented via the GUI as a time based aggregate or average e.g. total calls per day average call duration etc. .

Optionally according to another example embodiment once market data is correlated the market data can be displayed via the GUI in a time based manner. For example as described in further detail below the market data can be presented via a GUI as a synchronized timeline. Also the market data can be presented via the GUI as a time based aggregate or average e.g. total order volume per day average order amount per day etc. .

The GUI is interactive in that it displays GUI elements defined above which the user may interact with to cause the GUI to display different views and or information. The user s selecting of a GUI element causes one or more commands or queries to be transmitted via the GUI. At block the UI command module receives such a command or query inputted into computer by the user via the GUI. The UI command module forwards the received command or query to the formatting module causing the formatting module to reformat the GUI based on the command the query and or the correlated data. For example in one embodiment the formatting module performs a lookup in the database of one or more tags defined above associated with the received command or query and reformats the GUI to display information associated with the tag s identified via the lookup. Example GUIs as well as various types of commands queries that the user can input e.g. filtering association of different data types playback etc. are described in further detail below with reference to .

Once the data is formatted by the formatting module the formatting module provides block the formatted or reformatted GUI to a display device such as for example a display device of the computer . The data displayed via the GUI may be updated and displayed in a real time or pseudo real time manner. Alternatively or in addition the data displayed via the GUI may be historical data retrieved from the database .

Example GUIs that may be used in accordance with various example embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to .

The various GUIs described herein are interactive in that they display various GUI elements which the user may interact with to cause the GUIs to display different views and or information. Specific example GUI elements are described herein for convenience only and should not be construed as limiting. Various other types of GUI elements are contemplated such as for example GUI elements enabling a user to input a selection e.g. a command a query a time a date etc. by using a textual format and or a graphical format. Also although the description herein refers to specific example soft buttons this should not be construed as limiting. For instance other example embodiments are contemplated where one or more of the button s described herein is replaced with a hard button such as a physical button externally attached to the computer .

In one example embodiment a GUI has a default arrangement such as the arrangement of that is displayed upon the GUI application being opened by the user via the computer . The particular naming and arrangement of the elements of the GUIs described herein are provided for convenience and should not be construed as limiting.

In approximately the center of the GUI shown in is a circular image which depicts a communication diagram according to one aspect of the embodiments described herein. In general the communication diagram illustrates traders of a trading desk on one side other parties on another side and lines representing communications between the traders and the other parties. The communication diagram also illustrates other information as described in further detail in the sections that follow.

Displayed on the left side of the communication diagram shown in in section is a curved image that represents a trading desk along with traders associated with the trading desk and other information e.g. call volume associated with the traders. Displayed on the right side of the communication diagram shown in in section is a curved image that represents other parties which may also be referred to herein as connections such as buyers or sellers that the traders of the trading desk communicate with. As shown in the other parties may be grouped based on predetermined criteria such as which entity or group internal or external each connection is associated with e.g. compliance department Goldman Sachs etc. which asset class each connection is associated with etc. Each connection may be associated with an external entity such as a particular bank or an internal entity such as a department within the same entity to which the trading desk belongs .

Displayed about the center of the communication diagram are communication lines that illustrate active communications e.g. an active telephone call instant message traffic email activity etc. between the traders and the other parties. In particular each line connects one or more trader s to one or more other party ies the trader is communicating with thereby representing a communication between the one or more traders and the one or more other parties. In one example embodiment each communication line is visible throughout a time window during which the corresponding communication is active.

The communication diagram is time based in that it displays communications occurring at a particular time or during a particular time window. In one example embodiment a cursor in the timeline described below shown in section of indicates the time or time window for which the communication diagram is displaying communications.

The communication line s that represent communications are not limited to any particular format. In one example embodiment one or more characteristics of each communication line indicate additional information regarding the corresponding communication. For example the lines may be of a particular color width and or pattern e.g. dotted dashed and or the like to indicate a duration of the communication an asset class of the communication a volume of a trade associated with the communication and or the like. In another example embodiment the line presented by the GUI is tapered in order to illustrate a direction of the communication i.e. which party initiated the call . For example the line may appear wider near the originator of the communication and then appear narrower near the receiver of the communication.

In addition to the information described above the communication diagram also displays additional information such as information associated with each trader other party and or communication. In particular adjacent to the image representing each trader and each other party are one or more indicators of information associated with the trader the other party and or the communication between the trader and the other party. Examples of such additional information include revenue call volume and asset class but these examples should not be construed as limiting.

A revenue e.g. revenue per quarter associated with each other party is indicated in via a bar chart that appears adjacent to each other party respectively in the communication diagram although this example should not be construed as limiting. In other examples the indicator can take other forms such as a numerical indicator an indicator based on color etc. In one example embodiment the revenue e.g. revenue per quarter associated with a particular other party is determined by retrieving such information from a predetermined profile of the other party.

Call volume e.g. aggregated across a predetermined time period of each trader of the trading desk is shown in the communication diagram via a bar chart that appears adjacent to each trader e.g. in section of in the communication diagram although this example should not be construed as limiting. In one example embodiment as the call volume for a particular trader increases communication increases the call volume bar grows taller and becomes a brighter color making it more visually prominent. In other examples the call volume indicator can take other forms such as a numerical indicator an indicator based on color etc. In one example embodiment the call volume associated with each trader is retrieved computed based on call data retrieved from call records stored in a database in association with each trader. The call volume indicators of the GUI enable the user to quickly identify both high call volume traders and low call volume traders.

Asset class associated with each communication is indicated by a characteristic e.g. color pattern shape of a symbol that terminates the connection line corresponding to the communication. For example in section of the asset class associated with each communication is indicated by squares of a different color or other characteristic at the termination of each communication line. In one example embodiment a key such as the key shown in indicates which symbol characteristics correspond to which particular asset class.

In another example embodiment the asset class associated with a particular party is determined by retrieving such information from a predetermined profile of the party stored in database or received from the one or more data sources . The asset class associated with a particular communication is determined by performing an automated keyword analysis of the communication and comparing the keywords obtained from the analysis to a predetermined list of keywords associated with particular assets in accordance with another example.

In addition to the communication diagram displayed in the GUI of is a timeline section illustrating one or more types of data e.g. communication volume and order volume received from the one or more data sources over time via the communication network . Displaying communication volume and market and or order volume in a time synchronized manner enables the user to quickly notice possible relationships between communications of the trading desk and market activity or the amount of orders being placed.

The user may interact with the timeline in various ways. On the right side of the GUI in section is a play button indicated by a button displaying a triangle symbol that is selectable to start and stop playback of historical communications and or other types of data e.g. market data . Near the play button is a playback parameter button indicated in section by a button displaying the currently selected playback parameter 1 that is selectable to toggle between playback at a predetermined rates e.g. 0.5 half speed 1 normal rate 2 double speed rewind fast forward etc. Near the playback parameter button is a live historical playback button indicated in section by a button displaying the currently selected playback mode live that is selectable to toggle between live i.e. real time or pseudo real time playback and historical playback of the data in the timeline. The timeline can also be navigated by dragging a cursor from left to right to select a particular date and or time of interest.

In one example embodiment clicking on the date in the top right corner of section of the GUI causes a date picker to be presented. The date picker acts as a control that allows a user to input date and time information in either a textual or graphical format. The date picker could be used to select different dates to navigate the timeline to. The date may be entered via a scrollable date GUI element such as the GUI element shown in section of in one example.

The timeline also enables the user to analyze communications that take place in response to a past event. For example the user can navigate the timeline backward to a time of a key past event e.g. a rate announcement made by the U.S. Federal Reserve at 2 00 PM of the current day . In particular the user may use the timeline on the top of the GUI in section to scroll back to the point in time that the user is interested in. As the user navigates to an earlier point in time via the timeline in section of the active connections in the visualization are automatically updated. The timeline may indicate that shortly after the 2 00 PM rate announcement there was a spike in communication and order volume. This enables the user to analyze how the traders of the trading desk respond to events and particularly what communications the traders engage in response to such events. This in turn enables the user to gauge the efficiency of the traders and or improve the efficiency of the trading desk by for example replacing less efficient traders with more efficient traders.

Selecting the summary button of the GUI causes the GUI to display a summary view such as the summary view shown in . The summary view of includes rows respectively corresponding to each of the traders and columns respectively corresponding to groups of connections. Beneath each trader the summary view of the GUI of displays details associated with the trader such as for example an amount of calls placed during a predetermined time period e.g. a single workday a phone number of the trader an average duration of each call the trader engages in and or the like. Beneath each column which corresponds to particular group of connections the GUI displays an indicator of an aggregate amount of calls and or orders between each trader and the parties of the corresponding group of connections.

The summary view also displays information e.g. communications information market information etc. arranged in an array with each entry corresponding to a particular trader and a particular connection. Each entry of the array in the summary view indicates one or more types of information associated with the trader and the connection in that row and column respectively. For example as shown in each entry can include a bar chart indicating and amount of call volume between the corresponding trader and connection as well as a bar chart indicating an order volume associated with the corresponding trader and connection. In one embodiment each trader s daily average call volume or order volume is indicated by a horizontal line e.g. a red line in each bar chart corresponding to the call volume or order volume respectively. The summary view enables the user to for example view which of the traders has spent the most time on the phone with compliance element of the GUI .

In addition to the communication diagram and the timeline displayed in sections and are multiple controls i.e. interactive GUI elements that enable the user to select various information to be displayed by the GUI in various ways. The particular naming and arrangement of these buttons shown in the various figures described herein should not be construed as limiting. Section includes a benchmarks button indicated by a button displaying the currently selected benchmark orders and section includes a filter button a desk button a connections button a group by button and a summary button. Each of these buttons will now be described with reference to various Figures.

When the user selects the benchmarks button in section of this causes the GUI to display a benchmarks menu such as the benchmarks menu shown in section of . The user may select via the benchmarks menu one or more benchmark options to cause the GUI to display the benchmark e.g. other market related information associated with the selected benchmark option. Once displayed the benchmark may be used as a basis of comparison against communications data.

Example benchmarks options include financial exchange indexes e.g. the Dow Jones Industrial Average Index the NASDAQ index the S P 500 index etc. as well as an orders benchmark option. Selecting a financial exchange index for example the NASDAQ Index benchmarks option causes the GUI to display in the timeline in section of the GUI the performance of the NASDAQ index over a period of time covered by the timeline. Selecting the orders benchmarks option causes the GUI to display in the timeline in section of the GUI the amount of orders placed over a period of time.

The specific benchmarks options shown in should not be construed as limiting. Other benchmarks options such as for example other financial exchange indexes a benchmark associated with customer sentiment and or the like can be included in the benchmarks menu.

The selected benchmark s may be displayed as an overlay of the communication data in the timeline of section or above or below the communication data in the timeline of section . The one or more benchmarks displayed via the GUI may be utilized by the user as a reference against which the communications of the trading desk may be analyzed.

When the user selects the filters button in section of the GUI this causes the GUI to display a filter menu such as the filter menu shown in . As shown in the user may select via the filter menu one or more filter options to filter the data presented via the GUI based on predetermined criteria. Each filter option is categorized into a filter category. Example filter categories include asset types call direction and communication type.

Example filter options in the asset types category include bonds commodities derivatives foreign exchanges equities etc. Example filter options in the call direction category include inbound and outbound. Example filter options in the communication types category include voice call instant message etc. When the user selects an asset type filter option such as bonds this causes the GUI to display via the communication diagram timeline and or summary view depending on which view is being displayed information relating to that particular asset type e.g. bonds . When the user selects a call direction filter option such as outbound this causes the GUI to display via the communication diagram timeline and or summary view information relating to that asset type e.g. outbound calls with respect to the trading desk . When the user selects a communication type filter option such as voice calls this causes the GUI to display via the communication diagram timeline and or summary view information relating to that communication type e.g. voice calls .

In another example embodiment the GUI can be used to playback and identify trends and potential new financial instruments. The user can analyze communications between different asset classes within an organization. By looking at the communications between asset classes in detail interesting and unexpected patterns of communications may be explored and investigated further to determine if the output of these communications between these asset classes represents a bespoke deal that can be productized and sold to a larger client base.

When the user selects the desk button shown in section of this causes the GUI to display information relating to connections of the trading desk. In one example when the desk button is selected a filter is enabled thereby causing the GUI to display communications associated with the trading desk that a trader is a member of or that a head trader oversees. In another example embodiment selecting the desk button in section of the GUI causes the GUI to display a menu that enables the user to select one or more additional views such as an institutional view. In another example when the desk button is selected a filter is enabled thereby causing the GUI to display communications associated with an entire institution including multiple trading desks not necessarily just a single trading desk.

When a user selects the connections button in section of this causes the GUI to display a connections menu such as the connections menu shown in section of . The user may select via the connections menu one or more connections options each associated with predetermined criteria thereby causing the GUI to display only connections that meet the predetermined criteria.

In one example embodiment when a user selects a particular connections option via the connections menu the GUI displays the connection s associated with the selected connections option and does not display the connection s not associated with the selected connections option. In another example embodiment when the user selects a particular connections option via the connections menu the GUI continues to display connections not associated with the selected connections option but deemphasizes e.g. by graying out all connections except the connection s i.e. other parties that are associated with the selected connections option.

Each connections option is categorized into a connections category. Example connections categories include an activity category a back office category and an external entities category each of which will now be described in further detail.

In general selecting a connections option in the activity category causes the GUI to display via the communication diagram timeline and or summary view depending on which view is being displayed connections associated with a predetermined amount of activity or value. As shown in connections options in the activity category include for example most active this week most valuable and the like. Selecting the most active this week connections option causes the GUI to display a predetermined number of connections associated with the most activity during the current week with activity measured by for example number of trades per week. Selecting the most valuable connections option causes the GUI to display a predetermined number of the most valuable connections with value measured by for example revenue produced per quarter. In the example shown in the user has selected the most active this week connections option. The particular connections options in the activity category shown in should not be construed as limiting. For example other activity options such as most active today most active this month etc. can also be included as connections options in the activity category.

In one example the user may utilize the connections options in the activity category to analyze the trading desk s reaction to a past event of particular interest e.g. a rate announcement made by the U.S. Federal Reserve at 2 00 PM of the current day to ensure the most valuable contacts were contacted expeditiously. For example the user can select the most valuable connections option and then use the timeline in section of to navigate back to the time of interest e.g. 2 00 PM . The user can then select the play button thereby causing the GUI to display the communications that occurred shortly after the 2 00 PM announcement. The user may then analyze the communications more closely by pausing the application or slowing down the playback using the playback parameter button described above .

In general selecting a connections option in the back offices category causes the GUI to display in the communication diagram timeline and or summary view depending on which view is being displayed connections i.e. other parties associated with a predetermined back office. As shown in connections options in the back office category include for example compliance risk analysts economists and settlement. Selecting the compliance connections option causes the GUI to display the connections in the compliance back office selecting the risk connections option causes the GUI to display the connections in the risk back office and so on. In the example shown in none of the back office connections options have been selected by the user . Selecting the compliance connections option in the connections menu as shown in section of causes the GUI to display the connections in the compliance back office as shown in section of . Displaying the compliance connections via the GUI enables the user to for example quickly identify which traders spend the most amount of time communicating with parties within the compliance department.

In general selecting a connections option in the external entities category causes the GUI to display connections associated with a predetermined group or entity e.g. a corporation a division of a bank etc. . Connections options in the external entities category shown in include specific entities namely Aegisoft Alaris Trading Bank of America and so on. Selecting the Aegisoft connections option causes the GUI to display the Aegisoft connections selecting the Alaris Trading connections option causes the GUI to display the Alaris Trading connections and so on. The particular connections options shown in should not be construed as limiting. In the example shown in the user has selected the Concept Capital connections option.

Selecting the group by button in section of the GUI causes the GUI to display a group by menu such as the group by menu shown in section . The user may select via the group by menu one or more group by options to group the connections presented via the GUI based on predetermined criteria associated with the group by option. Example group by options as shown in include an alphabetical option an asset class option and an institution option. The particular group by options shown in section should not be construed as limiting.

Selecting a particular group by option has a slightly different effect depending on whether the GUI is currently displaying the connections diagram or the summary view. If the GUI is currently displaying the connections diagram then selecting a group by option causes the GUI to group the connections on the right side of the connections diagram e.g. on the right side of based on the criteria associated with the selected group by option. If the GUI is currently displaying the summary view then selecting a group by option causes the GUI to group the connections into columns on the right side of the summary diagram e.g. based on the criteria associated with the selected group by option.

Selecting the asset class group by option causes the GUI to group the connections based on asset class for example as shown in . Shown for each trader and group is one or more bar chart s indicating an amount of calls C a call time CT an amount of orders O and or an order volume OV . This view enables the user to for example identify which traders are engaging in the greatest amount of call volume call duration and or order volume with respect to assets of a particular asset class. This view also enables the user to identify which traders are engaging in a high level of cross asset trading i.e. trading involving assets belonging to more than one asset class . For example the user may identify which derivatives trader has the highest amount of bond orders. The user may also identify for example which traders have an above average amount of derivatives orders.

In another example embodiment the GUI can be used to gauge trader effectiveness and or efficiency based on a value e.g. in U.S. dollars per communication. For example the user can analyze the amount of time a particular trader communicates with outside trading partners against the amount of revenue that is generated off of that particular relationship. A combination of low communications and high revenue may indicate a high effectiveness and efficiency for that particular relationship. The inverse may indicate an ineffective relationship. This information can be used to determine the best relationships for a trader to focus on and which ones to minimize thereby leading to more efficient and effective operations.

The computer may include without limitation a processor device a main memory and an interconnect bus . The processor device may include without limitation a single microprocessor or may include a plurality of microprocessors for configuring the computer as a multi processor system. The main memory stores among other things instructions and or data for execution by the processor device . The main memory may include banks of dynamic random access memory DRAM as well as cache memory.

The computer may further include a mass storage device peripheral device s portable storage medium device s input control device s a graphics subsystem and or an output display interface . For explanatory purposes all components in the computer are shown in as being coupled via the bus . However the computer is not so limited. Devices of the computer may be coupled via one or more data transport means. For example the processor device and or the main memory may be coupled via a local microprocessor bus. The mass storage device peripheral device s portable storage medium device s and or graphics subsystem may be coupled via one or more input output I O buses. The mass storage device may be a nonvolatile storage device for storing data and or instructions for use by the processor device . The mass storage device may be implemented for example with a magnetic disk drive or an optical disk drive. In a software embodiment the mass storage device is configured for loading contents of the mass storage device into the main memory .

The portable storage medium device operates in conjunction with a nonvolatile portable storage medium such as for example a compact disc read only memory CD ROM to input and output data and code to and from the computer . In some embodiments the software for storing information may be stored on a portable storage medium and may be inputted into the computer via the portable storage medium device . The peripheral device s may include any type of computer support device such as for example an input output I O interface configured to add additional functionality to the computer . For example the peripheral device s may include a network interface card for interfacing the computer with a network .

The input control device s provide a portion of the user interface for a user of the computer . The input control device s may include a keypad and or a cursor control device. The keypad may be configured for inputting alphanumeric characters and or other key information. The cursor control device may include for example a handheld controller or mouse a trackball a stylus and or cursor direction keys. In order to display textual and graphical information the computer may include the graphics subsystem and the output display . The output display may include a cathode ray tube CRT display and or a liquid crystal display LCD . The graphics subsystem receives textual and graphical information and processes the information for output to the output display .

Each component of the computer may represent a broad category of a computer component of a general and or special purpose computer. Components of the computer are not limited to the specific implementations provided here.

As can be appreciated in view of the foregoing description even with the vast volume of trades taking place in today s financial markets and the limitless trader communications market information and other relevant information a trading desk of financial traders may be effectively and efficiently managed in accordance with example embodiments of the invention.

The example embodiments described above such as for example the systems and procedures depicted in or discussed in connection with or any part or function thereof may be implemented by using hardware software or a combination of the two. The implementation may be in one or more computers or other processing systems. While manipulations performed by these example embodiments may have been referred to in terms commonly associated with mental operations performed by a human operator no human operator is needed to perform any of the operations described herein. In other words the operations may be completely implemented with machine operations. Useful machines for performing the operation of the example embodiments presented herein include general purpose digital computers or similar devices.

Portions of the example embodiments of the invention may be conveniently implemented by using a conventional general purpose computer a specialized digital computer and or a microprocessor programmed according to the teachings of the present disclosure as is apparent to those skilled in the computer art. Appropriate software coding may readily be prepared by skilled programmers based on the teachings of the present disclosure.

Some embodiments may also be implemented by the preparation of application specific integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits.

Some embodiments include a computer program product. The computer program product may be a storage medium or media having instructions stored thereon or therein which can be used to control or cause a computer to perform any of the procedures of the example embodiments of the invention. The storage medium may include without limitation a floppy disk a mini disk an optical disc a Blu ray Disc a DVD a CD or CD ROM a micro drive a magneto optical disk a ROM a RAM an EPROM an EEPROM a DRAM a VRAM a flash memory a flash card a magnetic card an optical card nanosystems a molecular memory integrated circuit a RAID remote data storage archive warehousing and or any other type of device suitable for storing instructions and or data.

Stored on any one of the non transitory computer readable medium or media some implementations include software for controlling both the hardware of the general and or special computer or microprocessor and for enabling the computer or microprocessor to interact with a human user or other mechanism utilizing the results of the example embodiments of the invention. Such software may include without limitation device drivers operating systems and user applications. Ultimately such non transitory computer readable media further includes software for performing example aspects of the invention as described above.

Included in the programming and or software of the general and or special purpose computer or microprocessor are software modules for implementing the procedures described above.

While various example embodiments of the invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example and not limitation. It is apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and detail can be made therein. Thus the disclosure should not be limited by any of the above described example embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

In addition it should be understood that the figures are presented for example purposes only. The architecture of the example embodiments presented herein is sufficiently flexible and configurable such that it may be utilized and navigated in ways other than that shown in the accompanying figures.

Further the purpose of the Abstract is to enable the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally and especially the scientists engineers and practitioners in the art who are not familiar with patent or legal terms or phraseology to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and essence of the technical disclosure of the application. The Abstract is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the example embodiments presented herein in any way. It is also to be understood that the procedures recited in the claims need not be performed in the order presented.

