---

title: Following an entity in a social network
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer programs are presented for managing the visibility of relationships within a social network. One method includes an operation for enabling a person to establish a first follow relationship from the person to an entity in the social network. However, the entity is disabled to establish a second follow relationship from the entity to the person until the first follow relationship from the person to the entity is established. Further, the establishment of the first follow relationship with a limited visibility is detected, and the establishment of the second follow relationship is also detected. The method further includes an operation for disabling a user in the social network to obtain visibility of the second follow relationship if the first follow relationship is invisible to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646267&OS=09646267&RS=09646267
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09646267
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121102
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 556 156 filed Nov. 4 2011 and entitled Following an Entity in a Social Network. This provisional application is herein incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to methods systems and computer programs for managing the flow information about users of a social network and more particularly for managing the visibility of relationships between persons and non person entities.

The communication capability provided by social networks has opened new forms of communication in today s society making it easier for people to communicate with each other as well as providing new vehicles of communications between people and businesses or with other community groups. As people s interest in using social networks for communication has grown so has the interest of businesses in using social networks to communicate with people enabling a new form of communication for keeping customers informed and promote their products.

Embodiments provide methods systems and computer programs for managing the visibility of relationships and communications within a social network. It should be appreciated that the present embodiments can be implemented in numerous ways such as a process an apparatus a system a device or a method on a computer readable medium. Several embodiments are described below.

In one embodiment a method includes an operation for enabling a person to establish a first follow relationship from the person to an entity in the social network. The entity is disabled to establish a second follow relationship from the entity to the person until the first follow relationship from the person to the entity is established. Further the establishment of the first follow relationship with a limited visibility is detected and the establishment of the second follow relationship is also detected. The method further includes an operation for disabling a user in the social network to obtain visibility of the second follow relationship if the first follow relationship is invisible to the user where at least one operation of the method is executed through a processor.

Omitting the person from a list of users following the entity when the user views a profile of the entity.

Omitting the person from a list of users that the entity is following when the user views a profile of the entity.

Omitting the entity from a list of users followed by the person when the user views a profile of the person.

Omitting the entity from a list of users following the person when the user views a profile of the person.

The limited visibility is one of a restricted visibility or a private visibility where the restricted visibility shows a relationship to users in communications groups defined by the person and the private visibility makes the relationship invisible to everyone where a relationship without limited visibility is viewable by everyone.

Detecting that the user has visibility to the second follow relationship when considering visibility restrictions set by the entity and making the second follow relationship invisible to the user if the first follow relationship is invisible to the user.

Determining visibility to the user of the first follow relationship based on visibility parameters defined by the person and visibility parameters set by the entity.

Disabling the entity from following the person publicly in response to the first follow relationship being limited.

Enabling the person to specify which communication groups are viewable and enabling the person to specify if people in the communication groups of the person are one of visible to everyone or visible to the people in the communication groups.

The limited visibility is one of a restricted visibility or a private visibility where the restricted visibility shows a relationship to users in communications groups defined by the person and the private visibility makes the relationship invisible to everyone where a relationship without limited visibility is viewable by everyone.

In another embodiment a method includes an operation for enabling a person to establish a first follow relationship from the person to an entity in the social network where the entity is disabled to establish a second follow relationship from the entity to the person until the first follow relationship from the person is established. In addition an establishment of the first follow relationship with a limited visibility in the social network is detected. In response the entity is disabled from establishing the second follow relationship when the first follow relationship has limited visibility where at least one operation of the method is executed through a processor.

The operations of the method are performed by a computer program when executed by one or more processors the computer program being embedded in a non transitory computer readable storage medium.

In yet another embodiment a computer program embedded in a non transitory computer readable storage medium when executed by one or more processors for managing a visibility of relationships within a social network includes program instructions for enabling a person to establish a first follow relationship from the person to an entity in the social network where the entity is disabled to establish a second follow relationship from the entity to the person until the first follow relationship from the person is established. Included are additional program instructions for detecting an establishment of the first follow relationship with a limited visibility in the social network and program instructions for detecting an establishment of the second follow relationship. The computer program also includes program instructions for disabling a user in the social network to obtain visibility of the second follow relationship when the first follow relationship is invisible to the user.

Program instructions for omitting the person from a list of users following the entity when the user views a profile of the entity.

Program instructions for omitting the person from a list of users that the entity is following when the user views a profile of the entity.

Program instructions for omitting the entity from a list of users followed by the person when the user views a profile of the person.

Program instructions for detecting an addition of the entity to a group of the person with limited visibility.

Program instructions for enabling the person to specify which communication groups are viewable and program instructions for enabling the person to specify if people in the communication groups of the person are one of visible to everyone or visible to the people in the communication groups.

In yet another embodiment a system includes a social network server and a processing server. The social network server enables the establishment of a first follow relationship from a person to an entity in the social network. Further the processing server disables an establishment of a second follow relationship from the entity to the person until the first follow relationship from the person is established. The processing server upon detecting the establishment of the first follow relationship with a limited visibility in the social network and upon detecting the establishment of the second follow relationship disables a user in the social network to obtain visibility of the second follow relationship when the first follow relationship is invisible to the user.

The processing server omits the person from a list of users following the entity when the user views a profile of the entity.

The processing server omits the person from a list of users that the entity is following when the user views a profile of the entity.

The processing server omits the entity from a list of users followed by the person when the user views a profile of the person.

The processing server omits the entity from a list of users following the person when the user views a profile of the person.

The limited visibility is one of a restricted visibility or a private visibility where the restricted visibility shows a relationship to users in communication groups defined by the person and the private visibility makes the relationship invisible to everyone wherein a relationship without limited visibility is viewable by everyone.

These embodiments may provide one or more of the following advantages manage a flow of communications with entities providing privacy options to user to the visibility of relationships with other people or with other entities and providing an option to follow an entity without visibility to other users.

Other aspects will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The following embodiments describe methods systems and computer programs for managing the visibility of relationships and communications within a social network. It will be apparent that the present embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present embodiments.

In one embodiment social network server delivers services that enable users to interface with each other. The social network provides a site that enables users to define user accounts which can be accounts for people and entity accounts. Through those accounts users are able to connect with their friends group of friends entities groups of entities etc. In one embodiment the relationships established in the social network may be utilized in other contexts. Processing server manages electronic messages between persons and non person entities by enforcing rules that enable or disable electronic messages and or actions within the social network. Search server provides Internet search capabilities.

In one embodiment the social network provides customizable controls that people may use to manage interactions and electronic messages with non person entities. In one example the logic executing the social network may define various services and controls. One example service is designed for real person users e.g. people accounts . Another example service is designed for non person entities e.g. entity accounts . The entity account of the entity on the other hand is similar to a user account of a person however the services and controls are different. As noted above an entity may be a business a famous person or figure a commercial figure an artist a celebrity a government group a brand a political figure a community association a non profit organization an entity that provides services an entity that provides goods an entity that provides goods and services etc. Furthermore the entity may provide its goods or services primarily on the Internet primarily as a brick and mortar outfit or a combination thereof. For description purposes a real person may be referred to herein as a person people or an individual.

For description purposes a non person entity may be referred to herein as simply an entity a company a corporation a business an entity account etc. An entity may be a user although its use will be through an entity account. A user as referred to herein is a generic term for a person or entity unless otherwise noted. A non entity user therefore may utilize the social network through a user account.

In one embodiment the social network provides entities with a specific type of interface for posting messages messaging sharing and generally interacting within the social network. In one embodiment this interface for entities is referred to as entity pages indicated by a token e.g. followed by the name of the entity in the social network e.g. Acme corporation has a Acme page . Real persons have person pages which are different from entity pages and have different functionality although some features are common to both entity pages and person pages. Although the symbol and word plus is referred to herein as denoting a type of site or place within the social network it should be appreciated that any symbol identifier word or character may be used to define or identify the social services. In an alternate embodiment the services can be provided without the use of any special symbols or denoted nomenclature. Thus so long as the social network site provides the functionality defined herein the nomenclature utilized to denote the services can take on any form format or identifier.

In one embodiment a real person may act as an entity. For example the real person may be a public figure which uses the social network to promote commercial or social activities associated with this persona. In this case the person is treated by the social network as an entity because the main purpose of the public figure is to promote commercial or social activities. This person may for example have a user account as well as an entity account. The user when acting for the entity will login to her entity account. The user can therefore act in various roles consistent with their login parameters or assigned privileges. In one embodiment a user can have multiple privileges which will allow the user to log into her one account and based on her privileges will be allowed to access both accounts. Alternatively each account will have its own login.

In one embodiment a person is in control of her relationships with entities e.g. entity pages . In one embodiment interactions between person and entity require person approval e.g. an addition of the entity page to the person s social network or a mention by the person of the entity which are discussed in more detail below . Otherwise entity pages present a similar behavior as person pages once the person has initiated engagement with the entity.

Other embodiments may utilize different servers have the functionality of one server distributed over a plurality of servers have the functionality of two or more servers combined into a single server have a different amount of user categories in the social network categorize users by different criteria etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting.

In one embodiment the stream is presented in a middle panel of page . Input box enables the person to add new posts in the social network. When the person enters a new post the person is able to select the destination for the post. The destination could be the complete social network e.g. a public post a person or one or more groups defined by the person.

In one embodiment the groups defined by the person are referred to as circles but other configurations for defining groups are also possible. Examples include various graphically designed interfaces or text based lists dialog boxes pull downs radio buttons and other interfaces defined from a combination of graphical elements text images pictures combinations thereof etc. More details regarding the creation of circles are provided below with reference to . In one embodiment the post may be a text message a photo a video a link to a webpage or a location of the person. Thus the content and form of the post should be broadly construed to include any data that can be presented displayed listened to interfaced with received sent shared approved or disapproved etc.

In one embodiment the stream includes posts added by the person by others socially linked to the person or by an entity that the person has chosen to follow e.g. be linked with to in the social network . In one embodiment an entity may be restricted from posting to a person s stream unless the person has established a social link with the entity beforehand e.g. the person has chosen to follow the entity.

In one embodiment the visibility of the follow relationship from the person to the entity may be set to public e.g. the relationship is visible to all users in the social network the visibility may be set to private e.g. the relationship is hidden to all users in the social network or the visibility may be set to restricted e.g. the relationship is visible only to certain users such as to those users in the circles of the person . For description purposes we refer to limited visibility as a visibility that is not public which means that limited visibility includes private visibility nobody can see the relationship and restricted visibility some can see the relationship but not everyone . In one embodiment restricted visibility means that the content of a person s circle is visible to the users defined in any of the person s circles e.g. anyone in the person s circle can see who the user is following. The restricted visibility is also referred to as circle visibility or visible to the circles of the person.

In one embodiment each post may include information about the author the timestamp of the post and the scope of the post e.g. public limited etc. . Example post may include a text message entered by person John Smith but other types of posts are possible such as photo a video a link data etc. The social network provides options to respond to the post such as providing an endorsement of the post adding a comment to the post or sharing the post with others. It is noted that in the example of the entity Bunnies and Dancers has posted a comment in the user s stream. The entity is allow to post in the viewer s stream because the entity is in the viewer s e.g. Joe Hat s circles as shown in the list of users that are in the viewer s circles.

As used herein an endorsement is a public recommendation of an item such as a webpage a person a post an entity etc. An endorsement may also be referred to or provided as an acknowledgment a 1 a thumbs up a check mark a confirmation a ratification a validation a seal of approval a testimonial support advocacy an approval a ratification etc. In one embodiment a button is provided in various web pages to enable the person to provide his or her endorsement. See for example 1 button . The various web pages can be pages on accounts of the social network on pages of third party web sites on search pages in lists of search results etc. The 1 button is provided in one embodiment as an icon that can be selected by the user. When selected the count associated with the 1 button is displayed so as to provide the user with information regarding the number of other users that may have selected the 1 button.

Therefore an endorsement button is not limited to use in the social network and the endorsement button may appear in a variety of places and sites across the Internet. For example an endorsement button may be next to an Internet search result an Internet ad a news article a product etc. When the person presses the endorsement button a count associated with the item endorsed is incremented. The count measures the popularity of the item and as people endorse an item the counter associated with the item increases. In one embodiment the action of endorsing an entity in the social network does not cause the entity to be linked with the person in the social network. In another embodiment for a link to be established in the social network between the person and the entity a different operation is required where the person explicitly adds the entity to the person s social network. The explicit add can by performed by user selection on an interface addition of an entity to one of their groups e.g. circle or selection of a button icon or some input control to follow the entity. The following can also be triggered automatically based on the user s approval to take this action each time the user views finds selects or interfaces with an account of an entity.

In one embodiment a mention is an explicit reference to a user in a message. A mention allows the creator of the post to grab someone s attention to a post because of the introduction of a mention identifier with for example someone s name. In one embodiment a mention is performed by utilizing the or signs followed by the name of a person or entity. It is noted that a sign may be used to mention a person or an entity. When a person or an entity is mentioned within the context of the social network the person or entity may receive a notification that they have been mentioned in a post depending on notification settings . The user is also able to see the entirety of the post on which the user is mentioned even if the post wasn t originally shared with the user.

Button gives the person the ability to enter a different webpage which provides an interface to identify search parameters for finding people or entities in the social network. A profile picture of the person may be provided on the left side of page . In addition stream filtering options allows the person to limit or tune what is presented on the stream. In one embodiment the filtering options included radio buttons to select or deselect the groups created by the person. In addition the filtering options also include a radio button to enable or disable messages from entity pages in the stream. Although radio buttons are used other types of user selectable controls may be used such as drop downs text fields toggles voice inputs etc. In one embodiment a chat button is provided to allow the person to engage in conversation with others in the social network. On the right panel icons represent users in the social network that are linked with the person. In addition the social network provides suggested new users in area . It is again noted that the layout of the features on the page is only one example and the layout can vary based on site designer preferences.

Embodiments allow people to be in control of social messages. For an entity to initiate communication with the person the person has to first add explicitly the entity to its social network. In one embodiment an entity is not able to initiate messages in the social network with a person that has not added the entity to its social network or that has explicitly mentioned the entity in a post.

The person is able to perform certain operations affecting the relationship between the person and the entity. The person may endorse the entity or the person may add the entity to one of her social groups defined in the social network. In one embodiment the fact that the person endorses an entity does not enable the entity to freely initiate full messaging or posts with the person. Of course if the person and the entity are socially linked the entity may initiate messaging with the person and post on the person s user account.

A list of user attributes is provided on entry panel . Next to each attribute the current value of the attribute is presented if the value exists. In the example of page the person has and occupation of Surfer has his place of employment at Joe s Emporium etc. When the user selects one of the attributes an input window is presented which provides one or more fields to the user for entering the appropriate values for the attribute. The value for an attribute may be a single item such as age or may include a list of values such as places to live. Other attributes may include text e.g. introduction photos e.g. profile photos addresses phone numbers etc.

When the user enters values for the profile the user may set a privacy setting for selecting the visibility of this attribute to others in the social network. In one embodiment the options are Anyone on the web Extended circles friends and friends of friends Your circles shown only to those in the person s circles Only you visible only to the user and Custom which provides further options for defining the privacy settings of the attribute. In one embodiment the attributes present in the profile of the user also include attributes that the user has entered in other Internet services.

On the left panel a list of users in the viewer s circles is presented as well as a list of users that have the viewer in their circles. This means that list shows the list of users that the viewers is following and list show the users that are following the viewer. Of course list will not show the users that have not enabled others such as the viewer to see the relationship to the viewer.

The viewer may change the visibility of lists and to other users in the social network. When the user selects option to change the visibility of these users and input window is presented to define the visibility of both lists. In box the user may select the following options 

2. To select which circles are visible to others. If this option is selected input box is presented where the viewer may check be visible or uncheck be invisible each circle. If a circle is not visible e.g. Invisibles in the example the users defined in this circle will not be shown as being in the viewer s circles unless of course a user in the Invisible circle is also present in another circle that is visible .

3. Whether to show the content of the circles to everyone e.g. Anyone on the web or only to the viewer s circles e.g. Your circles . Of course the content of the circles will be shown for the circles selected in the option 2 described in the previous paragraph.

4. Whether to show or hide the users that are following the viewer e.g. the users that added the person to their circles .

It is appreciated that the embodiment illustrated in is exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different attributes present the attributes in a different form have different privacy and visibility options etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting.

Users area displays icons images pictures or indicators associated with several users and circles area includes the groups defined by the user. In one embodiment the person is able to add users to the circles in circles area by selecting a user icon dragging the icon to the circles area and dropping the icon in one of the circles. To delete a user from a circle the user icon inside the circle is dragged from the circle and dropped outside the circle. In one embodiment when the person moves the mouse over a circle the circle is enlarged to show the user icons corresponding to the users belonging to that circle. For example after placing the mouse over circle circle is expanded having now a larger size than the other circles and presents the users currently in that circle. Other circles such as circle named Friends are presented in a smaller size than circle and do not show their contents. To create a new circle the person can drop a user from users area in circle .

In one embodiment the social network creates a default circle for inclusion of entity pages. The embodiment of provides a circle named Following for inclusion of entity pages. The entity pages do not have to be added to circle and may be added to any of the circles defined by the person. In one embodiment persons and entities can also be added to more than one circle. In one embodiment when a person starts following an entity the entity is automatically added to the Following circle although the person may later remove the entity or moving to another circle. In another embodiment when the decision is made to follow an entity a drop down provides the user with options to add the entity to any one of the circles previously created by the user or to a following circle. This option allows for direct adding of users to circles without first adding them to the following circle .

The users in user area can be real persons e.g. person Jason Alex or can be entities e.g. entity Acme . People are able to place real persons or entities in any of the circles below and a circle may have just people just entities or a mix of people and entities.

In one embodiment user area also includes a couple of selection boxes for adding persons or entities e.g. pages . When the person selects one of these boxes options are presented to enter the name of a person or an entity or to perform a search on the social network. In another embodiment a unique box is presented to search for people or entities. In one embodiment once the person enters a sign as the first character of the search the social network limits the search to entities. Otherwise the search is limited to real persons. Again it should be understood that any other symbol or token can be used to filter identify or modify a search query.

In one embodiment the social network provides an option to follow other users privately which means that the follow relationship is hidden e.g. not visible to other users in the social network see above with reference to . In the example of circle is invisible which means that the contents of circle are not visible to anyone.

In one embodiment the social network provides an option to follow other users anonymously not shown . If a person follows another user anonymously the person will be able to see the public posts of the user and the person or entity being followed will not be aware that this person is following them. The anonymous follow relationship is kept hidden from all the users in the social network including the user being followed.

The profile page includes a region that can accept an icon associated with the entity and the name of the entity next to the icon . In addition an endorsement button gives the viewer an option for endorsing the entity associated with the profile page. Counter provides information about the number of users that have endorsed this entity. In one embodiment the profile page of a person may not include endorsement button . In another embodiment the social network allows for the endorsement of real people and an endorsement button is available to endorse people.

In one embodiment the social network enforces a privacy mechanic e.g. a policy to protect people from undesired messages. In one embodiment the policy defines two types of users people and entities. The messaging rules in the social network are different for people and for entities. A person may initiate contact with an entity but the entity may not initiate contact with the person. Once the person establishes a social link with the entity e.g. the person adds the entity to one or more circles then the entity may start messaging with the person. In one embodiment an entity may initiate contact with other entities of course subject to user privacy settings but not with real people e.g. people accounts . This policy puts the person in command of the message flow between people and entities.

Profile page also includes information about users in the user s circles that are also following this entity e.g. users in common following this entity. This information helps the entity improve its corporate image by showing related users that also are associated with the entity. In addition information is provided about users or entities of the social network that are in the entity s circles but that are not currently in any of the user s circles. Here the viewer seeing the entity s profile page sees that user Joe Hat is being followed by Bunnies and Dancers e.g. Joe Hat is in B D s circles . The viewer see s user because the entity B D s is following user publicly so everyone has visibility to this relationship. However user may be following the entity privately which means that the viewer does not have visibility that user is following the entity. However due to the policy the viewer is able to infer that user is following this entity because otherwise the entity could not be following user .

The search box is different from the search box of because an entity cannot search for people or be allowed to find people to first approach. An entity may only search for other entities e.g. pages . Additionally because the entity may not search for people the circle editor for entities does not include the icon of to add new persons. Entities are only provided with icon to add other entities. Although the functions of this mechanic are described with reference to icons that are present or not present other icons text windows selection features may be used.

In one embodiment the social network provides a default circle to the entity for adding users followed by the entity. Circle named Following in the sample of is intended to be used for adding users that are being followed by the entity in response to the person s initiated following of the entity. However the entity may add other circles and organize the users followed as desired by the administrator of the entity page. For example the embodiment of illustrates a page that includes besides the Following circle a Fashion circle e.g. to include other related companies in the fashion industry a Branches circle e.g. to include retail outlets for the entity and a Distributors circle e.g. to include the distributors that carry the entity s products .

The entity may add each user to more than one circle. For example the entity might create circles by geographic location in order to better target marketing messages e.g. United States South America Europe Asia etc. or may create circles according to demographic criteria e.g. 18 25 years old 25 50 and 51 . The number and type of circles e.g. groups created by the entity are limitless. The circles can be created for limited times and people can be dynamically moved by the entity or an process set by the entity.

In one embodiment the social network provides an automatic creation of circles based on the parameters selected by the entity and executed by the process or based on user characteristics. In one embodiment this feature is referred to as suggested circles. Each suggested circle is associated with a respective one or more attributes such as geographic location language country etc.

In the embodiment of person is following entity in a private manner that is no users in the social network know about this relationship except for person and entity . In one embodiment the follow relationship is private because user has added entity to an invisible circle.

In the embodiments of the visibility of the entity following person relationship is conditional on the visibility of the person following entity. If a viewer has visibility that the person is following the entity then the viewer may have visibility that the entity is following person depending on whether the viewer has visibility to the entity following person relationship as defined by the entity . However if a viewer has no visibility to the person following entity relationship then the viewer has no visibility to the entity following person relationship.

In the example in the person is following the entity privately therefore user e.g. the viewer has no visibility that the person is following the entity. Consequently users will not have visibility that the entity is following the person.

In the example in the visibility of the person following entity relationship is restricted to users in the person s circles. Users F is in the person s circles therefore user has visibility that the person is following the entity. The user has visibility that the person is following the entity then the user also has visibility that the entity is following the person. However other users that are not in the person s circles will not be able to have visibility to the entity following person relationship because people not in the person s circles have no visibility that the person is following the entity.

Since the entity is following the user privately others will not be able to see that the entity is following the user. In the example of the viewer does not have visibility that the person is following the entity because the person is following the entity privately. Since the entity is also following the person privately then viewer has no visibility to any of the relationships.

Processing server manages the rules for establishing social relationships within the network and the rules for controlling the authorized recipients of electronic messages from any user in the social network. When a request is made to the social network server to establish a new relationship e.g. to start following another user the social network forwards the requests to processing server which determines if the request is authorized or denied.

For example processing server checks if a person may be added to another person s circles or if a person may be added to an entity s circles. The processing server maintains the list of the possible operations. In one embodiment processing server provides an Application Programming Interface API which is utilized by social network server to perform requests from the processing server .

In one embodiment the rules for enabling the addition of users to another user s social network are defined by the following table 

In one embodiment processing server manages the rules for providing visibility to actions and relationships within the social network. For example processing server manages visibility and relationships according to one of the scenarios described above with reference to .

In one embodiment the processing server operates at the storage layer and these rules are enforced at the storage layer. It is appreciated that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different rules different servers combine the functionality of different servers into one server distribute the functionality of one server among several servers etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

Further in operation the establishment of the first follow relationship is detected where the first follow relationship is established with a limited visibility in the social network e.g. the first follow relationship is not public . From operation the method flows to operation where the establishment of the second follow relationship from the entity to the person is detected.

From operation the method continues to operation where a user in the social network is disabled to obtain visibility of the second follow relationship if the first follow relationship is invisible to the user. At least one operation of the method is executed through a processor.

Permanent storage represents a persistent data storage device such as a hard drive or a USB drive which may be local or remote. Network interface provides connections via network allowing communications wired or wireless with other devices. It should be appreciated that processor may be embodied in a general purpose processor a special purpose processor or a specially programmed logic device. Input Output I O interface provides communication with different peripherals and is connected with processor memory and permanent storage through the bus. Sample peripherals include display keyboard mouse removable media device etc.

Display is configured to display the user interfaces described herein. Keyboard mouse removable media device and other peripherals are coupled to I O interface in order to exchange information with processor . It should be appreciated that data to and from external devices may be communicated through I O interface . Embodiments can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wired or a wireless network.

Embodiments can be fabricated as computer readable code on a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The non transitory computer readable storage medium holds data which can be read by a computer system. Examples of the non transitory computer readable storage medium include permanent storage network attached storage NAS read only memory or random access memory in memory module Compact Discs CD Blu Ray discs flash drives hard drives magnetic tapes and other data storage devices. The non transitory computer readable storage medium may be distributed over a network coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Some or all operations of the method presented herein are executed through a processor such as processor of . Additionally although the method operations were described in a specific order it should be understood that some operations may be performed in a different order when the order of the operations do not affect the expected results. In addition other operations may be included in the methods presented and the operations may be performed by different entities in a distributed fashion as long as the processing of the operations is performed in the desired way.

In addition at least one operation of some methods performs physical manipulation of physical quantities and some of the operations described herein are useful machine operations. Embodiments presented herein recite a device or apparatus. The apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purpose or may be a general purpose computer. The apparatus includes a processor capable of executing the program instructions of the computer programs presented herein.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described with a certain level of detail for purposes of clarity it is noted that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the provided embodiments are to be considered illustrative and not restrictive not limited by the details presented herein and may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

