---

title: Composite drill pipe and method for forming same
abstract: A lightweight and durable drill pipe string capable of short radius drilling formed using a composite pipe segment formed to include tapered wall thickness ends that are each defined by opposed frustoconical surfaces conformed for self-aligning receipt and intimate bonding contact within an annular space between corresponding surfaces of a coaxially nested set of metal end pieces and a set of nonconductive sleeves. The distal peripheries of the nested end pieces and sleeves are then welded to each other and the sandwiched and bonded portions are radially pinned. The composite segment may include imbedded conductive leads and the axial end portions of the end pieces are shaped to form a threaded joint with the next pipe assembly that includes contact rings in the opposed surfaces of the pipe joint for contact together.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08287005&OS=08287005&RS=08287005
owner: Advanced Composite Products & Technology, Inc.
number: 08287005
owner_city: Huntington Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120103
---
The teachings herein constitute a divisional application Ser. No. 12 323 067 filed Nov. 25 2008 which was continuation in part of the matter disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 952 135 filed Sep. 28 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 458 617 and the benefit of this earlier filing data is claimed for all matter common therewith.

This invention was partly funded by the Government of the United States of America under Cooperative Agreement No. DE FC26 99FT40262 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy and the Government of the United States of America has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to drill pipe strings and the method for forming the same and more particularly to providing a lightweight string for extended reach and short radius drilling and to protecting connections for transmitting signal and or power across the joints forming the pipe string.

Oil well drilling is often performed from drilling platforms which for deep water applications may involve costs of several hundred thousand dollars per day. Thus there is a great demand for drill pipe strings which are lightweight yet durable enough to reach greater distances by directional drilling from the platforms to thereby add to the return on investment. The design discipline for short radius and extended reach are often different but both benefit from favorable strength to weight ratios.

The ability to adjust drilling rate reach and direction in the pursuit of oil traps has long been rendered inefficient by the lack of a reliable and durable pipe string and method for obtaining feedback during drilling. The depth and reach of exploration are restricted primarily by the cumulative weight and unit strength of a drill pipe string. Steel pipe has been effective for its durability but its weight to strength ratios has reached its boundaries in ultra deep deep directional and or extended reach drilling because of its weight or by the weight induced friction of the rotating pipe string as it rests on the walls of the well bore or rubs against the casing wall. The stiffness associated with steel has also made adjusting to or performing short radius turns difficult and dangerous as drill operators are essentially guessing at the changes in subterraneous conditions as the pipe progresses without consistent signal feedback. The drilling entrepreneur therefore has been limited for some time by the stiffness the unit weight and the fatigue shear and tensile strength limits of metal pipe.

Furthermore deep drilling and directional drilling require monitor and feedback of the drilling environment. As a drill string progresses the rotational velocity torque and stress variations require measurement to guide the drill workman in adjusting the drill operation. Measuring while drilling MWD also allows the drill operator to periodically check the likelihood of successfully locating an oil trap. The dilemma thus far has been in successfully leading a signal down the pipe. Prior efforts have focused on leading instrumentation or signal lines down through hollow pipe interiors. Signals that are traditionally carried down through the pipe tend to suffer adverse consequences of the rigorous and treacherous environment associated with drilling. As the pipe progresses chunks of sharp hard earth and particulates regurgitate back toward the surface along the pipe circumference or through its interior. As a result various material alternatives have been proposed both to reduce the linear weight and flexure of the string as well as to improve its fatigue shear and tensile limits and methods proposed to carry a signal between pipe string segments. The search for light weight and high strength material substitutes has led to composite pipe structures since composites also offer the added benefits of being more resistive to corrosion.

Composites while sufficiently lightweight and durable for deep and directional drilling are less effective at forming the mechanical joints required in drill pipes. While virtually all drilling operations require limited length pipe segments determined by the size of the drilling rig and or the handling power of any lifting equipment the step of joining such pipe segments into a long string is a fundamental aspect of all drilling. For this reason the more recent development focus has been directed to the interface between the composite wall of the pipe and metal end fittings on a segment end. The interface of these two structures provides an economically and mechanically viable structure for extended reach and short turn radius drilling.

Composite materials have a further advantage that heretofore has not been extensively recognized namely the convenient imbedding of signal and or power conductors into the laminates forming the pipe wall. Imbedding the signal within the pipe walls is particularly useful with short radius directional drilling since it allows for an uninterrupted continuous down hole signal feedback and control augmentation while drilling thus maximizing the effectiveness of the invariably very high drilling costs at the remaining remote or deeply submerged formations. Additionally the non conductive nature of composites insulates electrical signals when used preventing dissipation of power into the pipe walls. This synergistic aspect of composite pipe has not been fully recognized nor exploited in the art simply because the technical challenge of forming an effective connection between the composite tube wall and the end fitting has overwhelmed all other considerations. The process of imbedding conductors or connecting them across a joint from a metal composite interface coupled with protecting the signal line down the pipe string length has therefore been relegated to inattention.

At the core is the inherent difficulty in forming a high integrity interface between the composite pipe wall and the adjoining surfaces of the end fitting. In the past fitting assemblies with variously opposing surface geometries have been proposed to effect a secure capture of the composite end within the fitting. Some examples of such end fittings include those taught in U.S. Pat. No. 5 233 737 to Policelli U.S. Pat. No. 4 810 010 to Jones U.S. Pat. No. 6 315 002 to Antal et al. and others. While suitable for the purposes intended each of the foregoing assemblies include threaded or otherwise releasably engaged parts clamping the composite between each other with inherently uneven load concentrations resulting in highly uneven shear stresses. This uneven load distribution between adjacent parts of course results in correspondingly uneven local strain deformations when exposed to the various high loadings in the course of use. There is therefore an inherent incidence of local bond separation between the composite itself and the adjoining fitting surface with some consequence for failure.

Alternatively end fitting assemblies have been proposed in which radial pins or other radial fasteners are added to the assembly as exemplified by the teachings of U.S. Pat. No. 5 332 049 to Tew U.S. Pat. No. 5 288 109 to Auberon et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 443 099 to Chaussepied et al. and others. Once again while a change is realized from these radial interconnections the essentially separated nature of a single metal to composite surface interface is also susceptible to uneven load transfer with the consequent local separations an inherent possibility. For example the 109 patent to Tew appears to disclose a single metal composite interface held together by radial pins and an adhesive bond which may suffer from disparate torsional forces. Tew appears to propose an outer protective sheath lacking a tapered surface interface and suffers the shortcoming that particular to long reach applications the coupling itself fails to provide a high strength joint capable of carrying the high torsional force necessary to withstand the loads of both extended reach applications and short radius. Moreover such assemblies suffer from a lack of another significant attribute namely the bridging of a protected electrical signal between pipe connections.

In the past various conductor connection arrangements bridging a pipe joint have been proposed for transmitting power and signals down pipe strings. Examples of such arrangements can be found in the teachings of U.S. Pat. No. 6 367 564 to Mills et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 220 381 to van der Graaf U.S. Pat. No. 2 748 358 to Johnston and U.S. Pat. No. 5 334 801 to Mohn. Each of these and others similarly implemented either refer to indirect coupling like that obtained by capacitive coupling or by Hall effect or speak of full insulation of paired leads in light of the conductive nature of the pipe string or incorporate a conductive tube surrounded between two insulative regions as in the 564 patent to Mills. Additionally where electrical leads are incorporated throughout the pipe string the signal and power carrying arrangements suffer from being lead down the string either within the pipe hollow passage or external the pipe exposed to damaging objects. Thus while suitable for the purposes intended these prior art teachings do not avail themselves to all the advantages of a composite non conducting pipe string and the protective capabilities of embedding a conductor in the composite walls and it is these advantages that are realized herein. Such arrangements are either prone to damage or add significant weight and contribute to inflexibility in the pipe string by incorporating full length metal tubes within the structure.

Pipes has been proposed which include current loop inductive couplers with the electrical cables running along the interior of the pipe sections. A device of this type as shown in U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 306 to Boyle. The adductive loop coupling has not proven particularly acceptable and the electrical cable exposed on the interior of a pipe subjects the cable to the elements within the pipe and to damage from components extended through the pipe. Furthermore such pipe devices do not lend themselves to short turn pipe constructions.

It can be seen then that a need exists for a lightweight and durable structure capable of withstanding the rigors of deep and directional drilling that is also capable of carrying a protected signal down a pipe string length.

Briefly and in general terms the present invention is directed to a segment of drill piping constructed of composite materials connected end to end with metallic end fittings in a manner that provides a diffusion of torsional loads on a metal composite junction and protects a signal carrier throughout the length of the pipe. A metallic end fitting is connected to the composite pipe section to form a first metal composite interface partially carrying torsional loads. The interface is reinforced by a metallic sleeve attached concentrically about the first interface to form a second metal composite interface also carrying torsional loads. The composite pipe segment includes at least one conductive lead embedded in its walls that are exposed at each pipe segment end and connected to extremities of the end fittings.

The conductor is carried down a strong lightweight drill pipe string with a composite to metal interface by forming reinforced composite tubular segments. Each segment is made from a generally uniform wall thickness and the conductor is embedded within these composite walls with ends exposed at each segment end. Each wall may be constructed with both ends linearly tapered to a reducing wall thickness over a fixed axial increment. Both the interior and exterior tapers of these substantially identical end surfaces are then each mated and bonded to corresponding linearly tapered portions of cylindrical metal end fitting pieces and metallic sleeve fittings being further conformed for a closely fitted annular nested assembly. Once fully nested the dimensions of the tapered gap thus formed between the fittings closely match the end tapers of each composite segment assuring an intimate surface contact and therefore an effective bond over the full surface of the metal to composite interfaces the centralizing taper assuring this bond with or without bond line control. The end of the metal fitting is formed to extend beyond its nested receipt within the exterior piece to form either the male or female end of a threaded drill pipe connection commonly referred to as the pin end and the box end of the pipe segment. The exposed conductor ends are conveyed through the sleeve and end fittings to make contact with a conductive contact ring. Upon coupling of adjacent male female fittings the outward facing surface of the contact rings engage one another effecting an electrical contact across the joint.

The metal end fittings are formed with threaded bores so that a male end on one pipe segment will fit into the female end of an adjacent pipe segment. The end fittings include a flange with a shoulder at the flange base. Formed within each flange is an annular recess defined by an abutment surface formed at the flange interior base. The abutment surface includes multiple bores extending through the flange shoulders. The end fitting further includes a skirt projecting distally away from the flange with interior and exterior surfaces formed to fit concentrically with the ends of the pipe segment and the sleeve as described above.

The sleeve includes a flange and shoulder at its base and a skirt projecting distally therefrom. The sleeve interior surface is formed to cooperate with the exterior surface of the pipe segment and assists in reinforcing the metal to composite interface of the pipe segment and end fitting. The sleeve flange rests against the fitting shoulder and a bore at the sleeve shoulder allows the exposed lead ends to pass through the sleeve flange and into the end fitting shoulder to make contact with a conductive contact ring leg described more fully herein.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the foregoing assembly results in a fairly large composite to metal interface surface for effecting the bond thus widely diffusing any load concentrations thereacross. To reinforce the joint interface further steps are provided for integrating the assembly into a unitary structure once the initial bond has been made. More precisely the distal portions of the nested inner and outer pieces are each in direct contact with adjacent exterior flange rings which are then welded to each other while the portions thereof forming the interface cavity with the composite end bonded therein are cooled by water spray. Following this welding step the bonded portion may receive a plurality of radial pins press fit and secured through matched openings in the tapered skirts of the inner and outer piece and also through corresponding openings in the tapered end of the composite pipe segment bonded therein to fully tie the separate items into an integral structure with the press fit receipt of the pins in the more resilient composite insuring an internal compression prestress across the bond. In this manner all the conveniences of a part wise assembly are retained while the resulting end structure has all the advantages of an integral unit. More importantly this manner of assembly insures a self centralizing benefit where the tapered ends of the composite segment themselves provide the reference structure against which the inner and outer pieces are aligned. Once this centralized alignment is fixed by bonding the intimately aligned surfaces to each other the subsequent welding and pinning if desired of the nested pieces assures the end structure the integrity necessary to transfer the large stresses developed across the joint.

The same convenience of part wise assembly that results in an integral structure is also useful in realizing further benefits associated with composite tubes namely the benefit of bridging across the pipe joint electrical or signal continuity between embedded signal or power leads in each segment. In a first example the part wise assembly process allows insertion of exposed ends of imbedded conductors into passages formed in the sleeve for connection to axially aligned spring biased pins mounted on pistons within a sealed manifold of the end fitting. Application of pressure to the manifold then extends the pins against their spring bias to pierce the insulation covering on concentric annular contact rings deployed in the opposed mating surface of the next adjacent end fitting threadably mated therewith with the contact rings in turn connected for electrical contact with corresponding conductors imbedded in the next segment and so on.

In a second example both the opposed faces surrounding the threaded connection each include opposing annular recesses within which coaxial contact rings are received within an annular insulating ring formed with annular walls that define an annular gap. The insulating ring includes multiple hollow open ended legs extending axially out and fit into the bores in the abutment surface of the end fitting. A conductive contact ring with multiple legs projecting axially to fit into the insulation ring bores rests within the insulation ring. The insulating ring and contact ring assembly are inserted into the annular recess with the insulating ring legs fitting into the bores of the abutment surface. Preferably the contact rings project slightly beyond each of the opposing surfaces and as the pipe joint of the next segment is threadably coupled to the pipe string the resulting compression of the rings against each other then effects the contact between the opposed joint ends. To assure complete sealing of each ring by the walls of the insulating seal the peripheries of some of the ring surfaces may be chamfered to provide annular voids into which the excess insulation material can flow as the joint ends are threaded together. Each of the rings moreover may be perforated to engage a corresponding lead end extending through the insulator which then similarly seals by material flow this part of the surface and the buried edge of the rings may include axial projections that extend into conforming pockets formed in the seal to engage depressions in the groove bottom and thereby fix the ring and seal combination against rotation in the groove as the threaded pipe joint is made.

Thus a quick and expedient contact mechanism is devised either effected by the pressurizing step or by the threaded advancement of the joint ends onto each other thereby providing for a convenient transmission of signal or power down the well bore. The foregoing connection sequence may be utilized with composite segments of a layered construction resulting in a fully sealed pipe string a manner of construction that obtains further convenience for fabrication mandrel release by introducing internal pressure once the core layer has been formed with the pressurized core then serving as its own mandrel for next the successive wrappings of fiber and further interleaved membranes.

Those in the art will appreciate that this layered construction process allows for introduction of sealant between selected layers while appropriate compliance selection of the other layers and the fiber wrapping angle can then be used to control the bending compliance and thus the turning radius of the resulting piece. In this manner all the desired functions and attributes can be accommodated in the assembly process which then renders pipe segments that are particularly useful in the ultra deep and extended reach drilling efforts that are currently required.

In a third example of the present invention load diffusion across the metal composite interface is further enhanced by utilizing an alternate construction. The cross sectional area of the metal composite interface is altered by positioning the ends of the linearly tapered cylindrical metal end fittings and sleeves longitudinally offset from one another. In one formation of the resulting nesting cavity the cylindrical wall of the end fitting extends deeper into the pipe segment interior than the concentrically surrounding sleeve wall. Thus a reinforced and nested metal composite interface is maintained while providing enhanced diffusion of stress loads across the joint surfaces and in turn providing a supported degree of flexing at the juncture.

Other features and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the features of the invention

As shown in current drilling practices depend on a string SP composed of drill pipe segments PS connected end to end to turn a cutting tool CT mounted on the lower string end. In the course of such turning the tool CT grinds and penetrates through the bottom of the well bore WB with the particulates continuously brought out to the surface by a circulating flow of drilling mud DM pumped into the bore to equalize bore pressures. As readily available formations are depleted these drilling projects now extend to much greater depth and or greater lateral reach with the weight of the pipe string SP and or its friction load in the well bore setting the practical exploration limits. The complexity of a drilling rig RG conformed for such long reach drilling is enormous and the logistics of its movement alone encourage directional capability along with an increasing pipe string. This same complexity of the rig also determines the manipulation convenience of each of the pipe segments PS again resulting in its own logistic and mechanical constraints resolved by the size of the rig or off shore platform that can be effectively implemented at the well site thereby limiting the length of each segment PS and multiplying the number of required joints JT that need to be made to extend the string to the desired depth. The combined weight of the string including all the down hole joints and any wear knots or pipe protectors shielding the pipe from wall contact along with the friction load resulting from this wall contact are thus resolved at the last surface joint which sets the design limit. It is within this limit that the rig operator tries to discover oil by periodic insertion of instruments down the bore or simply by inspecting the drilling debris brought to the surface.

In addition to the above physical concerns there are also those imposed by various laws and ordinances dealing with the environment. There is currently substantial public resistance to the equipment clutter associated with crude oil production appearing in one s neighborhood further promoting directional drilling a technique that compounds torsional loading as very long drill pipe strings are turned while resting on the wall of the well. This same technique also demands shorter radius turns or a more flexible pipe and also accurate instrumentation to inform the operator of the actual direction that is being drilled and of any formation details that are encountered. For all these reasons light weight high strength but elastic pipe is desired particularly if signal and power conductors can be combined therewith. All these concerns are now substantially resolved in the inventive structure and process described by reference to .

By particular reference to the inventive pipe assembly generally designated by the numeral comprises a tubular composite pipe segment formed by winding up reinforcing fiber such as carbon fiber preferably wound in stress determined orientation patterns between plies of interleaved wrapping all bonded together by resinous filler to form a cylindrical structure of a generally uniform wall thickness over most of its length.

Pipe segment may be formed with a generally uniform taper along a selected portion of each end and reducing in wall thickness. Each end may be defined by interior and exterior wall surfaces and respectively that are configured for receipt within conforming annular cavities formed by male and female couplers comprising a set of nested metallic end fittings and and metallic sleeves and . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the surfaces of the pipe segment and adjoining structures for that matter may use other surface configurations yet in one embodiment tapered and frustoconical surfaces are used permitting a diffusion of torsional loads across the surfaces of connected pieces.

The metallic end fittings and include a flange with shoulders and and skirt including an exterior surface tapering in reducing cross section away from the flange.

The metallic sleeves and include respective telescoping flanges and skirts formed with interior surfaces tapering in expanding cross section away from the flange.

The annular cavities formed by the nested pieces are formed by axially aligning the tapered exterior surface of skirt adjacent an oppositely tapered surface on the skirt interior. The surfaces and are each closely matched to respective dimensions and tapered surfaces and where insertion of the surfaces and into the annular cavity forms an aligned pipe segment end interface. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that this self aligning construction creates a bonding interface that can be effected by any high temperature epoxy resin and will further appreciate that the close fit of this bond is further enhanced by close dimensional matching between the coaxially nested end fitting and sleeve pieces so that the sleeve forms a peripheral support for the tapered end of the pipe segment as it is slid into position within the end fitting.

In addition each of the skirts and moreover may include a radially matched set of lateral openings and dimensioned for press fit or interference receipt of corresponding optionally used pins that also pass through corresponding circular openings formed in the tapered ends and once the ends are fully received bonded and indexed within their receiving cavities. This same indexed alignment may orient the exposed ends of conductor leads that are woven into the filament matrix of the pipe segment into alignment with longitudinal drillings formed in skirts to effect an electrical connection across the pipe joint herein described. Beyond this bonding receipt each of the pieces is formed as a closely dimensioned telescoping cylindrical segments and which are each provided with corresponding exterior flanges and aligned next to each other when the skirts are properly positioned. Of course the same drillings extend through the flange to convey the lead ends therethrough.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that while pieces and and also pieces and are described above by identical descriptions in application one of the nested end piece sets serves as the male portion of the threaded joint otherwise referred to as the pin end and the other end piece set serves as the female threaded or the box end . Accordingly those parts of the end fitting pieces and that are exterior of flanges are of necessity different depending on the joint function that is formed. Thus end fitting includes a threaded boss extending beyond the exterior shoulder of the flange that is conformed for threaded receipt in a threaded cavity formed in the other exterior shoulder of the other flange on the end fitting piece . Each of the flanges moreover includes drilling continuations shown as drillings and aligned with drillings drilling conveying the conductor end into a circular recess formed in the flange shoulder surface where the lead is connected to an insulated ring conformed for receipt within the interior of recess .

In an exemplary assembly the overall length of the pipe assembly measures approximately 359 inches. In this assembly the composite pipe measures 338.00 inches long between respective outer sleeve proximal ends and and includes an inner diameter of 1.625 inches and an outer diameter of 2.510 inches intermediate the end assemblies. The diameters expand outwardly therefrom toward the assembly fittings where the pipe inner surface and exterior surface respectively are formed with radial dimensions matching their confrontment with end fitting exterior surface and sleeve inner surface respectively. The overall pipe string diameter expands from the composite pipe outer diameter of 2.510 inches to a metallic fitting end diameter of 3.405 inches. The length of the pin end assembly measures approximately 10.00 inches from the distal end of male boss to the outer sleeve proximal end. The box end assembly measures approximately 1.00 inch longer between respective like features of female boss and sleeve end to accommodate the male boss . Thus it will be appreciated that the metal to composite conjunction is useful in extended reach applications by providing a diffusion of loads across the joint interface.

During operation in extended reach drilling applications as pipe strings drill deeper into earth using longer strings the greater the weight of the string becomes thus promoting drag and inhibiting drilling performance and efficiency. Greater weight contributes to increasing tensile strength loads under the increasing pressures of deep extended reach drilling environments pulling and stretching on the pipe assembly components and in particular tugging on joints where tensile loads can separate parts. As will be appreciated the length of the drill string of the presently described embodiment is approximately 86 composite material length compared to approximately 14 metallic material length. The metal is primarily reserved for the end fittings and sleeves that support the joint interface to the composite pipe segment and provide strengthened joint coupling between adjacent pipe assemblies where tensile loads can do significant harm. Furthermore to aid in drilling extended distances it will be understood that as the composite layers are formed additional carbon material may be added to strengthen the tensile load capacity of drill strings. The composite pipe walls may also be conveniently adjusted to thicker or thinner thicknesses depending on the depth of drilling by forming the pipe segments with more or less composite layers.

It will be appreciated that the drill string is conducive to carrying torsional loads by both the internal fitting to composite wall interface and by the metallic outer sleeve. In operation as the drill pipe string turns force loads are distributed along the walls of the drill pipe assembly and are diffused over pipe walls expanding from the intermediate portion toward the joint assembly interfaces and ends. When loads propagate toward the joint assemblies these loads encounter the dual tapered surface interface between the metallic end fittings and metallic sleeves confronting the composite pipe disposed intermediately therebetween distributing the loads across two surfaces interfaces. As torsional forces encounter the first tapered interface between the metallic end fitting and composite pipe the tapered surfaces create a larger area of load confrontment thereby diffusing the load effects over a greater surface area. Those skilled will appreciate that this effect is enhanced by a second tapered interface between the composite pipe and sleeve tapered surfaces where the loads once again encounter an extended surface area diffusing the loads a second time as the outer sleeve carries part of the load. As such drill assemblies for long reach with the proposed configuration can be assembled in strings beyond 35 000 feet in length.

Referring to end fitting includes a drilling indexed with drilling in the sleeve to convey the other conductor end into a manifold formed in flange and terminating in one or more openings through shoulder surface opposing the recess when the ends are threadably mated. Opening may in turn be provided with a spring biased piston carrying a bayonet point . Referring to a sectional end view of the pin end is illustrated showing the insulated contact ring circumscribed within the circular recess within the flange . The assembly of circular features in are shown in relation to the features of where the spring biased piston and bayonet point on the box end in manifold are in circumferential alignment to the ring. Once the bosses and are joined together it is then useful to pressurize the manifold interior advancing the piston against the spring bias to drive the bayonet point through the insulation on the opposingly aligned contact ring. In this manner one example of circuit continuity is effected between the conductors imbedded in the joined segments regardless of their relative orientation.

Those in the art will further appreciate that the foregoing arrangements are particularly suited for custom forming of composite pipe segments by way of the nested end fittings described herein. By particular reference to the fitting end pieces and may be combined with a forming mandrel effected by an inner core layer to form the turning core for the subsequent winding of fiber plies and the remaining interleaved layers forming the composite pipe in step . In this step the winding pitch fiber density and the selection of any sealing wraps may also be determined by the particular parameters of the well and the mandrel structure may be further stiffened and assisted by internal pressurization while the fiber wind up tension is controlled. Of course conductive leads may be concurrently also imbedded into the wrap again in accordance with the type and nature of the signals and or power that may be conveyed thereon. Once the structural conditions are met the end fittings are withdrawn from the core layer and thereafter nested in the sleeve pieces and in step . A bonding agent such as a high temperature epoxy resin is then applied to the pipe ends and and the ends are then re positioned into the interiors of sleeve pieces and with the end fitting pieces and then pressed into their common interiors shown as the self centralizing step . In the course of this same step the exposed conductor ends are conveyed into their appropriate drillings to be thereafter connected either to the bayonet contact or the contact ring . In step the foregoing assembly is then brought into a spray cooled welding fixture illustrated in in which a weld is applied by a welding device to join the exterior flanges of the nested pieces and to each other and by the same example also the nested pieces and while water spray heads and cool the adjacent structure. Optionally once fixed by their flanges the sleeve and end pieces with the ends and captured therebetween are then drilled in step with perforations which thereafter receive press fit pins .

In this manner a self centralized end arrangement is useful both in the manufacturing and also in effecting a closely held bond interface between the high strength metal end pieces and the composite pipe segment with the interface further stabilized and fixed by welding and press fit pins. Simultaneously this manner of manufacture also provides a durable convenient and effective manner of incorporating a conductor into the pipe fully protected by the pipe pieces. The resulting high strength joint is then further complemented by the appropriately selected wind up pitch weave density and interleaving that are selected for the particular task. Thus the fabrication and the ending structure are rendered both highly effective and convenient.

It will also be appreciated that the aforedescribed drill pipe string may be improved upon to include enhanced configurations for effecting an electrical connection along the pipe string and modifications to the composite metal interface providing a durable yet flexible structure conducive to short radius drilling.

By reference to a second preferred embodiment employs the interior and exterior distantly converging tapered surfaces at the opposite extremities of the composite segments and showing an alternative contact implementation is obtained by embedding coaxial contact rings in each of the opposing shoulder surfaces and surrounding both the pin end and the box end of the joint assembly. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art one or the other or both of the tapers may be in the form of continuous smooth surfaces as shown in or in some instances in the form of stepped surfaces cooperating to progressively narrow the thickness of the segment wall in the distal direction. Once again like numbered parts functioning in a manner like that previously described are utilized except that shoulder surfaces and are each provided with an annular groove and of a sectional dimension conformed to receive a corresponding elastomeric annular seal and . Seal is generally shaped as a U sectioned structure defined by concentric inner and outer annular walls and extending from a bottom wall . A conforming contact ring chamfered along its upper edges by a peripheral chamfer is then captured by elastic stretching within the annular cavity formed between the inner and outer sealing walls and of the seal with the outer wall stretching just over the chamfer to retain the ring in position. A similarly dimensioned contact ring is then received in the annular cavity formed between the inner and outer walls and of the box end seal with the groove depth or wall height of walls and being substantially greater than the thickness of the ring and and the depth of the receiving recess . The height of seal in turn is somewhat less than its receiving recess . Preferably both the contact rings and are inserted within their respective seals so that each contact surface projects just slightly above the corresponding surface and a projection determined by the dimensions of the annular recesses or grooves and and the dimensions of each seal. Of course walls and each project beyond the corresponding surface of ring before the threaded engagement of the joint as illustrated in .

In this projecting deployment both the opposing seals and the rings seated therein are fixed in rotation in each corresponding recess and by way of spaced axial pins and that project from the buried edges of each of the rings and into conforming pockets in each of the seal bottoms which are then inserted into conforming cavities formed in the abutment surface bottoms of each of the recesses and . The projecting seal edges and the rings therein therefore slide in rotation relative each other as the pipe joint is made. As illustrated in once the joint is made the excess volume of the elastomeric matter forming each of the seal walls and fills the volume of the concentric annular open ended grooves defined by the respective edge chamfers which also assist in the spreading of the seat edges to facilitate a direct contact between the rings as illustrated before the mating in . Thus the edge chamfers in ring allow for the elastomeric material flow of the seal material as the joint is threaded together ensuring a completely surrounding sealing closure as the exposed edges of the rings are pressed against each other while the smaller contact dimension formed between the edge chamfers assures a better ring contact while also accommodating a somewhat less precise axial registration between the pipe segments. This same material flow may be utilized to both seal and capture the exterior insulation around a conductor extending through corresponding drillings and through corresponding shoulders and and extending into one of the cavities in the bottoms of recesses and to pass the respective lead ends through the seal material and thereafter into perforations and in the corresponding rings and . Referring to a return conductor connected directly between the pipe segment ends can then be utilized to provide the return or common ground. Thus when environmental resistance is encountered at certain depths the load carrying capacities of the drill string sections can be adjusted accordingly. In this manner a rugged and reliable contact is effected thus accommodating both the power and the signal needs in deep well drilling.

In operation threaded assemblies may not result in the same two polar points aligning functionally. It may occur that a point on a threaded end does not meet a corresponding point on a receiving end more than once because the boss end may begin at a different point for threading or the degree of torque applied at the end of the threading shifts the points. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that by utilizing contact rings at the end fittings of a threaded pipe assembly an effective and efficient means for conduction of a signal is maintained even where the conductors are not in direct contact or alignment to one another. It will be seen that the contact rings and will be in conductive engagement regardless of where the conductor is situated on one end piece after threading relative to where the next conductor is on an adjacent segment. Thus as long as the contact rings are engaged and the conductors are in conductive proximity to the axial pins of their respective contact ring and insulated from electrical diffusion from one another and the surrounding conductive elements signal can be successfully transmitted from one conductor through the contact ring conjunction to the next conductor.

It will also be appreciated that by using annular seals to incorporate the contact rings and an efficient means of maintaining the conductive integrity is preserved. The annular seal assists in protecting the contact ring from the conductive properties and stress imposed by the metal walls of the pipe end fittings. By sheathing the conductor in an insulation in conjunction with housing the contact rings in the annular seals signal loss may be prevented from escaping to the pipe exterior. Once the two pipe ends are press fit further insulation is achieved where the elastomeric flow fills the annular voids within the shoulders of the two ends. By insulating the conductive components of the contact rings from other conductive components a signal can be transmitted down a line without short. Additionally as the pipe assembly advances through jagged rock surfaces contacting the drill pipe outer walls it will be further appreciated that embedding the conductor into the composite pipe segment walls and subsequently into the sleeves and end fittings protects the conductor from frictional contact with the surrounding environment.

It will be further appreciated that each of the conductors may be variously effected either as an electrical power lead a signal lead or even a fiber optic filament. Of course known techniques of signal superposition frequency and or pulse modulation or other signaling formats can then be effected by these leads to bring out down hole information directly to the rig operator as the drilling is taking place which can then be used to modify in known techniques the drilling direction and the cutting rate commonly referred to as LWD or logging while drilling and MWD or measuring while drilling. In this manner all the control and pipe compliance conditions can be conveniently accommodated in a pipe string that because of its light weight is particularly suited for ultra deep and or extended reach drilling.

In a third preferred embodiment it will be understood that for short radius drilling applications such as from offshore oil platforms where the drilling direction is rapidly changed to avoid obstructions or based on a feedback signal the nested pieces and their respective tapered surfaces may be modified to withstand varying external loads on the pipe joints accommodating flexing during drilling while maintaining a metal composite interface conducive for carrying a torsional load capacity. For example the drill string configuration in is similar to the drill string embodiment shown in except that the longitudinal length of the metal end fitting is concentric with and projects approximately 1 inch farther of the end of the outer sleeve facilitating flexure at the metal composite junction. Similar to the embodiment shown in end fittings and respectively also include tapered wall surfaces and projecting divergently away from the end fittings to form a conical nesting cavity with and for bonded receipt of tapered surfaces and of pipe segment ends . Additionally those skilled will recognize that the composite pipe segment can be constructed to include less carbon material providing more flexibility in the composite segment length. Thus it will be appreciated that the pipe assembly is conducive for providing quick turns while maintaining durable integrity during advancement of drilling.

In operation as the drill assembly rotates advancing toward an oil trap the composite walls and offset metallic end portions provide a flexure point at the metal composite interface facilitating directional change during short radius turns. Those skilled will recognize that the composite pipe walls are relatively more flexible than the metal end fittings. Thus upon a relatively rapid change in drilling direction the composite walls will bend in the direction of the turn and the internal metallic fitting end bends with the composite walls. The external metallic sleeve end in turn provides a flex point for the internal metal end fitting and composite wall to bend from while simultaneously supporting the metal composite joint interface to partially carry torsional loads. As portions of the string advance past short radius turns the bending loads on the composite walls lessen and the more rigid metal end fitting helps draw the composite walls back to a linear state. Similar to the embodiment shown in as loads propagate down the drill string and encounter the metallic composite joint interface torsional loads once again encounter two extended cross sectional areas between the metal and composite surfaces and thus diffuse the loads at the two interfaces. Thus an appreciable degree of flexibility may be achieved during short radius drilling while providing a durable structure that can return to is rigidity as the pipe string is extracted from its hole.

It will also be recognized that the drilling experience is further enhanced by incorporating the conductor to the pipe assembly without detracting from the efficiency of or compromising the integrity of the assembly structure. As a string travels deeper into earth and the loads continue to mount on the string structure it will be appreciated that measuring signals sent along the string via the conductor can provide feedback for adjusting rotational speed as well as update the composition of surrounding geological attributes relative to oil proximity. The flexibility of the conductor cooperates with the advancement of the pipe assembly particularly in short radius applications where the conductor can flex right along with the pipe segment during tight turns.

By using a composite material for the pipe in combination with metal end fittings a lighter and cost effective solution is demonstrated for deep well drilling. Furthermore those skilled in the art will appreciate that assembling a drilling pipe with offset metal component ends provides for competitive structural integrity and flexing during small radius turning. By proposing a conductor imbedded in the pipe walls and the end to end mating with the exemplary connections shown a protected and uninterrupted signal may be sent down the length of the pipe and a return signal monitored providing data for necessary adjustments during drilling.

