---

title: Device and method for facilitating financial transactions
abstract: A device, system, and method for conducting a secure transaction over a network includes receiving from a user, being issued a stored-value financial instrument, a dollar amount to be associated to the stored-value financial instrument, communicating the dollar amount to a debit agent residing on a network processing and communication device, receiving at the debit agent a selection of a non-integrated financial institution selected from a list that includes at least one non-integrated financial institution, receiving at the debit agent a financial-institution user-identifier from the user, communicating the financial-institution user-identifier from the debit agent to the selected non-integrated financial institution, participating in a user-free electronic dialogue between the debit agent and the selected non-integrated financial institution, the dialogue including a request to transfer funds from the selected non-integrated financial institution, and transferring, with the debit agent, the funds from the selected non-integrated financial institution to the stored-value financial instrument.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09015074&OS=09015074&RS=09015074
owner: Mazooma Technical Services, Inc.
number: 09015074
owner_city: Toronto, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120910
---
The present invention relates generally to transferring funds to a financial instrument used to facilitate on line or off line economic transactions and in particular to a method device and system that facilitates electronic fund transfers from a financial institution to an intermediary financial instrument used to make on line or off line economic transactions.

Purchases of goods and services over the internet have transformed from what was once a novel way of conducting a business transaction to a now well known mainstream method of acquiring those goods and services. These on line transactions include making a selection from an offering at a merchant s website entering payment information and concluding the transaction by authorizing the merchant to receive funds. Presently there are several methods by which a consumer can electronically pay for the purchases made on the Internet which are namely credit cards debit cards direct debit and electronic funds transfers. Each of these methods however has its own advantages and disadvantages.

When making an on line purchase with a credit card or a debit cards that are signature based as opposed to pin based the consumer provides the merchant with card information sufficient to process the transaction. The information can include the card number a security code referred to as CVV2 the card holder s address the card s expiration date and more. The amount of the purchase is then charged to the associated credit card or debit card account. Many of these cards are susceptible to fraud especially when used over the Internet because the physical card is never presented to the merchant. This allows anyone with the misappropriated credit card information to initiate a transaction potentially depleting the funds in the user s account. In addition often times a verification to check whether the credit card owner has in fact authorized the purchase is typically not performed especially during on line purchases. This lack of security makes many purchasers reluctant to use a credit card over the Internet.

Debit cards whether they are signature based or pin based can be used to make purchases on line. Debit cards are really signature based check cards that are associated with a bank account. They are analogous to a check with insufficient funds NSF and overdraft protection. A consumer can initiate the on line purchase by supplying his or her account number and generally one other piece of information such as a three or four digit number stamped on the physical card and the amount of the purchase is debited directly from the consumer s account. One major disadvantage of debit cards from a consumer s point of view is the inability to immediately reverse or repudiate the transaction. Once the funds are withdrawn from the consumer s account he or she will be forced to do without those funds during any dispute procedures. Interception of the account number and other piece of information such as the three or four digit number stamped on the physical card allows a third party direct access to a consumer s funds. This possibility makes many consumers reluctant to use debit cards over the internet. Therefore security is a major drawback. Also fees for overdrafts are high. Similar to credit cards the information associated with the debit cards are also susceptible to misappropriation.

Fund transfer methods of payment for on line purchases are also known. Fund transfer methods include payment employing an intermediate account whereby a consumer transfers funds from his personal financial institution account into the intermediate account and then uses the funds in the intermediate account in making an on line purchase. These systems include electronic wallets or ewallets internet pay anyone IPA accounts and virtual or physical pre paid credit cards. When paying for an on line purchase from an intermediate account the consumer may be required to provide the merchant with information identifying his intermediate account such as a user identifier User ID and a password. Many of these systems however are limited to only certain merchants who accept payment through these intermediate accounts which limits these methods versatility. Furthermore many of these fund transfer accounts require constant monitoring and entering the financial institution information in order to transfer funds from the financial institution to the intermediary account. This is problematic for many users as they are required to have the information available in order to make the transfer. Moreover many of these methods only allow funds to be added to the intermediary account when the user is online and in some instances only when the user is logged on to the user s financial institution website.

If the consumer does not have sufficient funds in the intermediate account the on line transaction will be denied. These methods also do not provide a means to automatically fund the intermediary account. As such funding these intermediate accounts require the consumer to plan ahead it may take one to five business days before a consumer who has transferred funds into his intermediate account to access those funds. During this time the funds are debited from the consumer s personal financial institution account and the consumer disadvantageously does not have access to these funds. On the other side the intermediate account provider will place a hold on deposited funds until they are cleared. A consumer who does not have enough funds in his intermediate account to pay for his on line purchase will have to wait for the funds to clear before he can complete his purchase.

Consumer pre authorized direct debit methods are known and typically used for on line payment of bills such as utility bills and for recurring payments. However a merchant needs prior standing authority from the consumer. Without this explicit authority no third parties such as merchants are able to access funds from the customer. Such an arrangement is tedious and inconvenient to set up. In any event customers are extremely reluctant to give authority to a third party to access their funds and there are concerns about fraud and difficulty in canceling such authority.

Customer initiated electronic checks e checks are known and can be used for on line purchases. Typically the customer provides his routing and account number and the merchant or processor debits funds from the consumer s account through the check clearing network. The problems with this method include the lack of any real time verification of account ownership authorization or sufficient funds and a lack of a real time settlement system. In addition there is no built in identity verification or notification of transaction success. Similar to the above this method also provides third parties with direct access to the user s financial account information.

The invention provides a device method and system for facilitating financial transactions that overcomes the hereinafore mentioned disadvantages of the heretofore known devices and methods of this general type. The invention provides a user with the ability to direct debit the account of their financial institution to a stored value financial instrument that may then be used in both on line and off line financial transactions with a merchant.

With the foregoing and other objects in view there is provided in accordance with the invention a device for conducting a secure transaction over a network with the device having at least one network connection communicatively coupled to at least one network device and a processor communicatively coupled to the at least one network connection. The processor is operable to 1 receive over the at least one network connection from a user having been issued a stored value financial instrument a dollar amount to be associated to the stored value financial instrument 2 receive from the user over the at least one network connection a selection of a non integrated financial institution from a list including at least one non integrated financial institution 3 receive over the at least one network connection a financial institution user identifier from the user 4 communicate over the at least one network connection the financial institution user identifier to the selected non integrated financial institution and 5 participate over the at least one network connection in a user free electronic dialogue with the selected non integrated financial institution the dialogue including a request to transfer funds in the dollar amount specified by the user from the selected non integrated financial institution.

In accordance with a further feature of the present invention the processor is further operable to associate funds received from the selected non integrated financial institution to the stored value financial instrument.

In accordance with another feature of the present invention the processor is further operable to participate over the at least one network connection in a user free electronic dialogue with the selected non integrated financial institution upon receiving a funds request from a merchant.

In accordance with yet another feature an embodiment of the present invention includes an agent operable to conduct the user free electronic dialogue by automatically performing substantially all steps for electronic communication with the selected non integrated financial institution to access an account associated with the user.

In accordance with a feature of the present invention the processor is further operable to associate funds received from the selected non integrated financial institution to the stored value financial instrument.

In accordance with a further feature of the present invention the stored value financial instrument is not issued by the selected non integrated financial institution.

In accordance with yet another feature of the present invention the processor is further operable to identify receipt of the funds from the selected non integrated financial institution into the stored value financial instrument.

In accordance with another feature of the present invention the processor is further operable to receive over the at least one network connection a financial institution pass code from the user and communicate over the at least one network connection the financial institution pass code to the selected non integrated financial institution.

In accordance with the present invention a device also includes an input operable to receive a selection of a non integrated financial institution from a user receive a financial institution user identifier from the user and receive a dollar amount from the user having been issued a stored value financial instrument the dollar amount being associated to the stored value financial instrument. The device also has a processor communicatively coupled to the input with the processor operable to initiate and maintain a user free communication session with the selected non integrated financial institution. The device also includes an output operable to communicate the financial institution user identifier to the selected non integrated financial institution and communicate to the selected non integrated financial institution a request to transfer funds in the dollar amount supplied by the user.

In accordance with a further feature of the present invention the processor is also operable to facilitate an agent that automatically performs substantially all steps of the user free communication session with the selected non integrated financial institution to gain access to an account associated with the user.

In accordance with an additional feature of the present invention the input is further operable to receive a financial institution pass code from the user and the output is further operable to communicate the financial institution pass code to the selected non integrated financial institution.

In accordance with the present invention a method for conducting a secure transaction over a network the method including 1 receiving from a user being issued a stored value financial instrument a dollar amount to be associated to the stored value financial instrument 2 communicating the dollar amount to a debit agent residing on a network processing and communication device 3 receiving at the debit agent a selection of a non integrated financial institution selected from a list that includes at least one non integrated financial institution 4 receiving at the debit agent a financial institution user identifier from the user 5 communicating the financial institution user identifier from the debit agent to the selected non integrated financial institution 6 participating in a user free electronic dialogue between the debit agent and the selected non integrated financial institution the dialogue including a request to transfer funds from the selected non integrated financial institution and 7 transferring with the debit agent the funds from the selected non integrated financial institution to the stored value financial instrument.

In accordance with another feature an embodiment of the present invention also includes transferring the funds associated with the stored value financial instrument to an account identified by a merchant.

Although the invention is illustrated and described herein as embodied in a device and method for facilitating financial transactions it is nevertheless not intended to be limited to the details shown because various modifications and structural changes may be made therein without departing from the spirit of the invention and within the scope and range of equivalents of the claims. Additionally well known elements of exemplary embodiments of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

Other features that are considered as characteristic for the invention are set forth in the appended claims. As required detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention which can be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one of ordinary skill in the art to variously employ the present invention in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of the invention. While the specification concludes with claims defining the features of the invention that are regarded as novel it is believed that the invention will be better understood from a consideration of the following description in conjunction with the drawing figures in which like reference numerals are carried forward. The figures of the drawings are not drawn to scale.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. The terms a or an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language . The term coupled as used herein is defined as connected although not necessarily directly and not necessarily mechanically.

As used herein the terms about or approximately apply to all numeric values whether or not explicitly indicated. These terms generally refer to a range of numbers that one of skill in the art would consider equivalent to the recited values i.e. having the same function or result . In many instances these terms may include numbers that are rounded to the nearest significant figure. The terms program software application and the like as used herein are defined as a sequence of instructions designed for execution on a computer system. A program computer program or software application may include a subroutine a function a procedure an object method an object implementation an executable application an applet a servlet a source code an object code a shared library dynamic load library and or other sequence of instructions designed for execution on a computer system.

While the specification concludes with claims defining the features of the invention that are regarded as novel it is believed that the invention will be better understood from a consideration of the following description in conjunction with the drawing figures in which like reference numerals are carried forward.

Described now is an exemplary device system and method for transferring funds from a financial institution to a stored value financial instrument SVFI to be used in economic transactions. In one example of the present invention allows a user to receive funds into an intermediary account by utilizing an inventive server device that intelligently and securely facilitates a funds transfer from the user s financial institution to the intermediary account. The invention according to particular embodiments is advantageous in the respect that the consumer only provides sensitive information to a single entity that is consistent throughout all transactions regardless of the various merchant selected and allows the SVFI to be used virtually anywhere for virtually any merchant.

Furthermore the inventive system does not require a consumer to provide credit card or other sensitive financial information associated with the user s financial institution to a merchant. The consumer only provides sensitive information to a single entity that is consistent throughout all transactions regardless of the various merchant selected. This open loop transaction method gives great versatility to the user. The system also provides the user the ability to use the funds within the intermediary account similar to those funds actually held within the user s financial institution.

With reference now to the figures depicts a representation of a network of data processing systems in which the present invention may be implemented. The network includes connections which are the medium used to provide communications links between various devices and computers connected together within the network . The connections may be wired or wireless connections. A few exemplary wired connections are cable phone line and fiber optic. Exemplary wireless connections include radio frequency RF and infrared radiation IR transmission. Many other wired and wireless connections are known in the art and can be used with the present invention.

In the depicted example a merchant server may be directly connected to the network in order to process a financial transaction or in some embodiments may not be connected to the network . The discretionary connectability of the merchant server is indicated by a hash line arrow . A financial institution server and an On line Debit System ODS server running an ODS agent are connected to the network . Again it should be noted that the merchant server is only exemplary and is not required in order for the present invention to be carried out. In addition a consumer is also connected to or has at least temporary access to the network . Consumer may be interchangeably used herein with the term user depending on the step the user is in the transaction process. Furthermore the consumer may be for example a personal computer or network computer or any other device that has electronic communication capabilities and is able to communicate with or over the network .

The network may include additional servers consumers and other devices and entities not shown. In the depicted example the consumer communicates with the financial institution service through the ODS server and as will be explained in detail below the financial institution transmits funds to a stored value financial instrument SVFI . The consumer is also able to communicate over the network with additional servers consumers and other devices and entities. Any of the depicted network entities in addition to communication with each other over the network are in some embodiments also able to communication in a peer to peer communication using wired or wireless links.

The SVFI may then communicate over traditional processing networks which may include the internet to remove funds from the SVFI to a merchant. The transfer to the merchant may occur through the merchant server . Systems and processes for transferring funds from the SFVI to the merchant are generally known by those skilled in the art. This process however may include the merchant s server or processor communicating with the settlement network e.g. VISA MASTERCARD. Next the settlement network e.g. VISA MASTERCARD routes the transaction to the ODS server who now also becomes an issuing bank. This advantageous feature removes the consumer s financial institution formerly the issuing bank from the transaction process thereby minimizing the possibility of theft on the consumer. In other embodiments the settlement network may communicate with one or more additional servers working alone or in combination with the ODS server .

The ODS server may then record or report the transaction and issue an approval or refusal to the settlement network based upon the available funds within the consumer s account. In another embodiment the ODS agent may communicate with the financial institution server to again withdraw funds to replenish the consumer s account. In yet another embodiment this automatic withdraw from the user s selected financial institution including selecting parameters such as the frequency amount and preauthorization approval may be determined when the user first logs into the ODS server . In other embodiments this may occur after the first login by the user. When the approval is sent to the merchant the financial transaction is complete and the settlement network continues to effectuate the removal of the funds from the consumer s SVFI to the merchant . This typically occurs by transferring funds first to the settlement network e.g. VISA MASTERCARD and then transferring the funds to the merchant s bank.

The merchant server and financial institution server represent a merchant and a financial institution respectively that operates or communicates through the merchant server and financial institution server . Therefore throughout the remainder of the specification the merchant server and financial institution server will be referred to generally as the merchant and financial institution .

In the depicted example network can include the Internet which represents a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial government educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course network also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as for example an Intranet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . is intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for the present invention.

Referring to a block diagram of a data processing system that may be implemented as a server such as servers or or implemented as a personal computer such as consumer computer in is depicted in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. Data processing system may be a symmetric multiprocessor SMP system including a plurality of processors and connected to system bus . Alternatively a single processor system may be employed. Also connected to system bus is memory controller cache which provides an interface to local memory . An I O bus bridge is connected to system bus and provides an interface to I O bus . Memory controller cache and I O bus bridge may be integrated as depicted. The processor or in conjunction with memory controller controls what data is stored in memory . The processor and or and memory controller can serve as a data counter for counting the rate of data flow to the memory or from the memory and can also count the total volume of data accessed to or from the memory . The processor or can also work in conjunction with any other memory device or storage location.

Peripheral component interconnect PCI bus bridge connected to I O bus provides an interface to PCI local bus . A number of modems may be connected to PCI bus . Typical PCI bus implementations will support four PCI expansion slots or add in connectors. Communications links to network computers in may be provided through the modem and network adapter connected to PCI local bus through add in boards.

Additional PCI bus bridges and provide interfaces for additional PCI buses and from which additional modems or network adapters may be supported. In this manner data processing system allows connections to multiple network computers. A graphics adapter and hard disk may also be connected to I O bus as depicted either directly or indirectly.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware depicted in may vary. For example other peripheral devices such as optical disk drives and the like also may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted. The depicted example is not meant to imply architectural limitations with respect to the present invention.

The ODS agent is explained in detail below and can be embodied in a computer program. Computer programs also called computer control logic are stored in memory such as main memory removable storage drive removable media hard disk and signals. Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features of the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor and or to perform the features of the ODS agent .

In this document the terms computer program medium computer usable medium and computer readable medium are used to generally refer to media such as main memory removable storage drive removable media hard disk and signals. These computer program products are means for providing software to the computer system. The computer readable medium allows the computer system to read data instructions messages or message packets and other computer readable information from the computer readable medium. The computer readable medium for example may include non volatile memory such as Floppy ROM Flash memory Disk drive memory CD ROM and other permanent storage. It is useful for example for transporting information such as data and computer instructions between computer systems. Furthermore the computer readable medium may comprise computer readable information in a transitory state medium such as a network link and or a network interface including a wired network or a wireless network that allow a computer to read such computer readable information.

The above described hardware is useful for implementing the present invention which accomplishes secure on line or off line transactions between the consumer and the merchant through utilization of an ODS server and an ODS agent . Specifically the inventive ODS server securely transfers funds from the consumer s financial institution to the SVFI wherein the SVFI can be utilized to conduct a financial transaction with merchant . This financial transaction can be conducted on line or off line. An on line transaction is defined herein as any transaction that occurs at least partially over any electronic communication network. An off line transaction is defined herein as any transaction that does not occur at least partially over any electronic communication network.

The flow starts at step and moves directly to step where a consumer uses a consumer computer to log in to the ODS agent through a network such as the internet . It is noted that a consumer is not shown in however for the purposes of the instant discussion a consumer and a consumer computer are indistinguishable. Web pages are well known in the art and are a resource of information that is suitable for access over the internet and can be accessed through a web browser running on a computing system such as consumer computer . Web pages may consist of files of static text stored within a server s file system static web pages or the web server may construct the X HTML for each web page when it is requested by a browser dynamic web pages . Client side scripting can make web pages more responsive to user input once in the client browser. Web pages are requested and served from web servers using Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . This information is usually in HTML or XHTML format and may provide navigation to other web pages via hypertext links within the page.

In other embodiments the consumer may log into the network utilizing a telephone network wherein the user calls another individual or system connected to the network . The telephone network may include telephone lines fiber optic cables microwaves microwave transmission cellular networks and communication satellites. In such an embodiment said log in information may be transmitted over the telephone network where the individual who may be on a LAN connection to the network would input the information. In addition to this being carried out for the log in process it may also be implemented for any other step with the process flow diagram requiring a network connection.

The ODS server is a physical hardware device and the ODS agent can be hardware and or a computer program that is responsible for accepting HTTP requests from a consumer and serving them HTTP responses along with optional data contents which usually are web pages such as HTML documents and linked objects images etc. . In one exemplary embodiment should the ODS agent still be connected to the internet after the process of funding the SVFI the ODS agent may also be configured to accept HTTP requests from a merchant or other processing servers in addition to also serving those servers with HTTP responses along with optional data contents. In further embodiments the ODS server and ODS agent may also receive through the merchant s on line application payment details such as order number amount and others information.

The ODS agent is a programming module that provides other network components with programming interfaces to on line banking authentication and fund transfer services through a specific financial institution. The ODS agent handles HTTP communications and HTML contents intelligently to automate intermediate interactive steps required to effect an on line fund transfer. It encapsulates such complexity from other ODS components by providing well defined programming interfaces. By implementing and utilizing ODS agents an ODS system can thus present a universal and clean interface for consumers to transact on line debits efficiently and securely through heterogeneous on line banking services. In other words once a user provides his financial institution identification information the ODS agent conducts a user free i.e. user s further input is not needed communication session with the financial institution . This provides the user with the ability to transfer funds to the SVFI once or a plurality of times without the threat of the user s financial information being intercepted or without any sensitive information associated with the financial institution being given to an unknown third party.

To manage the complexity for both implementation and maintenance an agent is constructed in such a way that it can automatically adapt to non structural changes of on line banking services while monitoring and reporting functional changes of the services so that modifications can be applied easily and accurately.

Authentication service is an integral part of on line banking services. To comply with regulatory rules and assure the integrity of the entire system on line banking utilizes leading edge technologies for user authentication to address fraud and repudiation concerns. In practice the implementation of such service varies from bank to bank. Most banks nowadays require multi factor authentication when an unusual usage pattern is detected for example when a user logs in from a new device for the first time . Multi factor authentication may on top of usual authentication credentials such as log in and password involve random Q and A question and answer tests from a set of questions that are preset by a consumer for on line banking. Most banks also avoid unnecessary multi factor authentication by maintaining a device token on the consumer s computer device after a successful multi factor authentication.

The presently inventive ODS agent according to an embodiment implements online banking authentication. It may cache device tokens set by on line banking to pass multi factor authentication when applicable. The caching mechanism may be implemented by keeping track of the token for a specific on line banking log in and storing it in a database for subsequent usage. In one embodiment this facilitates the ODS agent in continually updating the SVFI based upon certain parameters set up by the consumer . Some of these parameters may include replenishing the SVFI when the amount of funds associated with the SVFI fall below a certain predefined limit always replenishing the SVFI when the funds associated to the SVFI are completely depleted or other parameters set by the consumer . This replenishment process may occur before or after any requests are received by the ODS server to remove funds from the SVFI .

Fund transfer services are part of on line banking services for consumers to pay service providers utilities etc. or other account holders accounts in another financial institution friends relatives etc. conveniently and efficiently. Banks may provide one or more ways to facilitate the payments and each of them involves quite different steps or set up. Banks may add more methods with advancement in payment technology for specific bank or the banking industry as a whole.

The ODS agent is able to implement the most efficient fund transfer service available from a specific bank. In particular it is able to verify the availability of sufficient funds for a particular payment to avoid inconvenience and cost arising from overdraft or insufficient funds NSF . Also the agent is able to automatically determine and select a proper bank account for the payment when multiple accounts are present for on line banking. It encapsulates the details from other ODS components so that the payment method may be replaced by a more efficient one in the future while keeping the interface to consumers user experience intact.

Session management is an important part of on line banking services. On line banking services utilize session control to manage states of a multiple step operation. They also apply session control to protect services or resources from unauthorized usage. The techniques may involve cookie management or URL rewriting.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the ODS agent implements session management required by on line banking services to facilitate multi step fund transfers. It also maintains the session after successful authentication and instructs on line banking server to close the session once a transfer is completed.

Again in step the consumer logs onto the ODS agent . For logging in the consumer may have at least two ways of identifying him or herself to the ODS agent . If the consumer is a returning user he or she can log in with a previously established user name or email address and password. If this is the consumer s first time accessing the ODS agent the consumer is able to create a new account by filling in user information fields. In one embodiment of the present invention the ODS agent by default or by a consumer s instruction does not store the consumer s log in information. This feature provides an added layer of security so that the consumer does not have to worry about his her private information being obtained by a third party.

Alternatively the consumer s personal information can be provided to the ODS server by another server connected to the network. In such an embodiment as a security measure the ODS agent may ask for the same information and compare it to that personal information submitted by the other server. If a difference in the two sets of information is detected the process may be terminated. In another embodiment the ODS server may submit additional authentication protocols that would need to be verified by the consumer before the process continued.

Once the consumer has identified himself a web page may be shown that allows the consumer to select or insert a dollar amount to be associated with the SVFI . This step is represented in . The process of issuing the SVFI is diagramed in and essentially includes starting at step and then immediately advancing to the step which is connecting to the ODS server or ODS agent . This may be accomplished within the same step represented in i.e. logging into the ODS agent. In other embodiments connecting to the ODS server may be done in a step outside of the process of transferring funds to the SVFI . Step includes the user registering the necessary information to effectively associate the user with the SVFI . The inventive device system and method are also advantageous because the funds associated with the SVFI are directly debited from the user s financial institution thereby not requiring any credit or background checks for the user. Next in step the user requests a SVFI to be assigned to the user Immediately following the request for the SVFI the next step includes associating the SVFI to the user. This may be accomplished utilizing one or more programs within the ODS server or any other server communicatively coupled to the ODS server . In one embodiment the SVFI may take the form of a tangible card that is then distributed to the user. As previously discussed the card is the operable to be used in combination with typical card processing methods to deliver the funds associated with the SVFI to a merchant . In other embodiments the SVFI may take the form of digital card. Regardless the form the inventive ODS server in combination with the ODS agent allow the SVFI to be utilized in an open loop process whereby the SVFI can be used virtually anywhere and with virtually any system. This is accomplished while allowing the ODS server specifically the ODS agent to withdraw funds from the user s financial institution without the user s participation. The process of terminates in step .

The financial institutions can be banks or other entities where the consumer has established an account. The financial institutions may be a place that the consumer has stored money or can be an entity that extends credit to the consumer. Referring back to in step the consumer selects one of the financial institutions if more than one is offered from a list of available financial institutions. The ODS agent in step determines whether the selected financial institution is supported by the ODS agent and any associated system in which the ODS agent is employed. If the financial institution is not supported the flow moves to step where an error page is presented to the consumer indicating that the transaction is not going to be processed through the ODS agent . In alternative embodiments the ODS agent may be operable to send an indication of the failed transaction to one or more servers communicatively coupled to the network e.g. the merchant . The process would then end at step . Alternatively if the financial institution is supported the flow moves from step to step .

In step the ODS agent determines the information required by the selected financial institution for gaining access to the consumer s account at that institution and then presents a financial institution log in information to the consumer . This log in information requests the necessary authentication credentials from the consumer . In one embodiment the required log in information requires the consumer s identifying information and in a second field a password. After the information is entered into the ODS agent it is submitted to the specified financial institution in step .

In step the ODS agent determines whether or not the financial institution requires multi factor authentication. Multi factor authentication is a relatively new procedure for ensuring the person accessing the account has permission to do so. One example of multi factor authentication is where a user selects a particular graphic at some point when setting up the account. During the log in the consumer is given a choice of graphics and only upon making the correct selection of graphics is he granted access to the account. In other systems the consumer is given one or more challenge questions to answer.

If the answer to query is yes the process moves to step where the ODS agent presents the multi factor authentication to the consumer. The consumer presents the answer and in step the ODS agent submits the consumer s answers to the financial institution . In one embodiment this information is stored on the ODS server or other server communicatively coupled to the ODS server for future use. In other embodiments this information may not be stored thereby requiring the user to input the authentication factors another time.

In step the ODS agent interprets the response from the financial institution and determines whether the authentication credentials are valid and accepted by the financial institution. If the credentials are not accepted by the financial institution the user returns to step to correct the authentication credentials. If the user is unable to enter correct authentication credentials the transaction will not proceed. If the authentication credentials are accepted by the financial institution the process proceeds to step .

In step the ODS agent acts on behalf of the consumer and maintains a session with the financial institution in order to interact and respond to actions and messages from the financial institution . In other words the ODS agent implements and maintains programmatically all steps required to interact with a bank s on line financial services to facilitate a funds transfer. Specifically the ODS agent performs all the actions and functions that would be otherwise undertaken by the consumer . The process involves significant two way communication between the ODS agent and the financial institution . Advantageously this process is invisible to and involves relatively little collaboration with the consumer . The consumer only provides their authentication credentials to the ODS agent and all other actions are handled by the agent .

This is significantly different from a proxy server type of interaction between a consumer and a bank site whereby the server is merely a conduit that passes information to and from the consumer but does not act on behalf of the consumer or interpret the messages and screen code on the bank site.

Advantageously the on line financial institution does not recognize the difference between interacting with a consumer directly and interacting with the ODS agent . This is not simply a matter of pre populating fields or amalgamating steps for the consumer it is an active agent that is undertaking steps completely independent of any interaction from the consumer. For example the ODS agent in step performs functions such as entering and submitting information reacting to messages or pages loading on the bank site and opening and closing the authenticated session with the bank server. The agent acts independently based on a pre determined set of steps and interactions necessary to complete a bill pay or other payment on behalf of the consumer. The complexity of accomplishing this interaction is significant given the fact that each bank site may have different authentication procedures information requirements session maintenance systems protocols and data entry sequences. The ODS agent also interprets and decodes unique pages from each bank site to determine the result and appropriate response.

One advantage of the ODS agent is that it does not require a system level integration with the financial institution server . System level integration can be described as entailing communication between two independent systems based on an agreed upon set of communication parameters and protocols. In a system level integration both systems conform to a common communication protocol which defines how the systems exchange data and authenticate each other. It requires participation and cooperation from both sides and also the complete and formal consent of both parties. The parameters and protocol are generally defined in a technical document called an application programming interface or API. In other embodiments the parameters and protocols maybe defined within an application binary interface ABI. The ODS agent of the present invention is advantageous in that it does not require this integration with the financial institution. In fact unlike currently available systems the present invention requires no pre transaction communication with a financial institution. The ODS agent works as an extension of the consumer and relieves the consumer from all or virtually all post identification transaction steps. As a result the ODS agent is able to communicate with non integrated no previous relationship or correspondence is necessary financial institutions.

In step the ODS agent determines whether sufficient funds are in the consumer s account. It does this by comparing the account balance at the financial institution to the requested funding amount requested by the user in step . If there are not sufficient funds in the account to cover the amount requested in step the flow moves to step where an error page is presented to the consumer indicating that the request is not going to be processed through the ODS agent . In other embodiments the ODS server is also operable to send an indication of the failed request to the merchant or to another server connected to the network or otherwise communicatively coupled to the ODS server e.g. a server located within the settlement network . Alternatively if sufficient funds in the user s account to cover the amount requested in step the ODS agent will present an approval page to the consumer in step . Again the ODS server is also operable to send an indication of the approved request to the merchant or to another server connected to the network or otherwise communicatively coupled to the ODS server .

The consumer can then in step approve the transaction. In one embodiment the consumer s approval is indicated by the selection of one or more buttons on a webpage associated with the ODS agent . In other embodiments the ODS agent may have a pre approval from the user thereby allowing continuous approvals whether the user is on line or not. As the user is not required to approve the transaction the user may use the SVFI in a commercial transaction without having sufficient funds associated with it and without being on line. The user may simply use the SVFI and upon receiving a request for funds assuming there is insufficient funds associated with the SVFI to cover the transaction from a merchant the ODS agent would then request a transfer of funds from the consumer s account with the financial institution to fund the SVFI .

If the consumer does not approve the transaction the flow moves to step where an error page is presented indicating that the transaction is not going to be processed through the ODS agent . Again the ODS server is also operable to send an indication of the failed request to the merchant or to another server connected to the network or otherwise communicatively coupled to the ODS server . The process would then end at step .

If in step the consumer approves the transaction the flow moves to step where the ODS agent will interact with the financial institution and determine the most efficient funds transfer method available from the financial institution . In step the ODS agent initiates the funds transfer through the funds transfer method determined in step . Before continuing however in step the ODS agent determines whether or not the payee has previously been registered with the funds transfer channel. If not the flow moves to step where the payee is registered.

If the answer to step is yes or after the payee is registered in step the flow moves to step where the correct payor bank account is determined. This step is used where the payor has multiple accounts to select from such as checking savings money market and others. Once the account is selected the flow moves to step where the requested amount is provided to the financial institution . In step the fund transfer is completed.

In step the ODS agent will interpret the financial institution s responses to determine the successful processing of the request. If the request is not accepted by the financial institution the flow moves to step where an error page is presented to the user indicating that the transaction is not going to be processed. The ODS server is also operable to send an indication of the failed request to the merchant or to another server connected to the network or otherwise communicatively coupled to the ODS server . If the request is accepted by the financial institution a summary recording said transaction may be stored in the ODS server or delivered to the user . The summary details the transaction and provides the consumer with a record of the transaction. This step is of course optional. The summary can also be emailed to the user using an email address that the user provided during the log in process. In step the customer is presented with a request receipt page. Then in step the consumer may log off of the ODS agent .

The next step includes associating the funds approved by the financial institution to the SVFI . The user was given an SVFI within step . As such each user may have one or more SVFI with each SVFI having an identifier. Each identifier has the ability to associate any funds to it. In one embodiment a user may have one account to associate any funds thereto. In other embodiments a user may have multiple accounts capable of associating any funds thereto. In one embodiment this data may be stored on the ODS server . In other embodiments the data may be stored off the ODS server but the ODS server would be communicatively coupled and accessible to the data storage. This presents the user with an account separate from his or her financial institution with the ability to use the funds within that financial institution.

In one embodiment of the present invention the payment from the SVFI to a merchant is through a settlement network shown in . The settlement process is shown in step . A settlement network is a system that processes and pays electronic debits and credits between two or more entities. Advantageously the present invention is Settlement Network Independent as it relates to the transfer or funding to the merchant. Said another way although the inventive server may be operable to also communicate with the merchant it is not required to do so. Therefore the transfer of funds from the financial institution to the SVFI and the transfer of the funds from the SVFI to the merchant should this embodiment be implemented is not reliant on any specific settlement network. Furthermore the settlement of funds between 1 the financial institution to the SVFI and 2 the transfer of the funds from the SVFI to the merchant should this embodiment be implemented may be completely independent of one another.

In one embodiment of the present invention in step the ODS may send a settlement notification to a merchant which may include fund transfers that have been voided reversed returned or settled. In step the funds are pushed i.e. caused to transfer to the merchant s account for example through use of the settlement network . The funds may include net settled fund transfers less fees reserves returns reversals and other deductions. The intermediary bank account is independent and can be any account at any bank. In this step the ODS agent pushes the funds in the ODS s intermediate account to the merchant or any account or entity that the merchant designates. The process ends at step .

As stated above in step the ODS agent initiates the most efficient funds transfer on behalf of the consumer. It should be noted that the term funds transfer as used herein is not an actual movement of currency but can be an electronic credit or debit instruction transmitted over any communication channel. Any other method of transferring currency is also within the scope of the invention.

Many on line systems that refer to themselves as real time debit systems are actually simply debiting funds that have already been deposited and cleared into a virtual wallet held by that service. These on line systems however do not have the ability transfer funds once and continually from the user s financial institution with little and in some instances no interaction with the user. The present invention provides a real time or quasi real time debit system where upon approval by the user the ODS agent in step initiates the most efficient funds transfer method on behalf of the user directly from the user s bank account. In other words the transfer of funds is from the financial institution and in the amount requested by the user in step . In some embodiments the user is not even required to fund an account prior to the transaction with the merchant . This is primarily because the SVFI may be used anywhere where a settlement network is present. Today that is virtually everywhere.

The ODS server may also include a message center which is responsible for transmitting messages to merchants upon important events. The ODS server is also operable to send messages to other servers connected to the network or otherwise communicatively coupled to the ODS server . In particular the message center can transmit fund request results submitted to the financial institution and settlement records resulting from the settlement network .

The ODS server further includes a reporting center that provides real time or quasi real time reports through the internet to merchants on the payment settlement and distribution of transactions. The ODS server is also operable to provide reports to other servers connected to the network or otherwise communicatively coupled to the ODS server . The reporting system may also supply a service that allows the merchant to access key reports programmatically for example through an API without human intervention.

The present invention as has just been described is advantageous in that it is an intelligent agent rather than a simple proxy or conduit. This means that the ODS agent does not require user intervention for each step in the interaction with the financial institution . The intelligent agent automatically executes most of the steps required to complete the funds transfer process. As an agent the present invention does not require the bank site financial institution to integrate with the ODS agent . In other words there is no need for a pre transaction relationship to be established between the financial institution and the ODS agent . The system is also bank independent there is no system level or dependent integration with any bank or any specific financial system. In other words the present invention can work with any on line banking site. Because the system is not dependent on any system level integration or communication scheme or protocol i.e. no direct system level integration the ODS agent can take advantage of any current or future on line banking functionality.

The ODS agent provides funds from a user s financial institution to a SVFI which now has an associated amount of funds that can be used by the user. As opposed to a closed loop transaction wherein the process begins with a request by the merchant and ends with funds being directed to the merchant the present invention utilizes an open loop transaction. This means that the funds request comes from the user and ends with the funds being delivered to the merchant. Now advantageously a user may transfer funds to an account with little to no interaction both effectively and efficiently and then use the SVFI anywhere where a settlement network is utilized. Furthermore the consumer beneficially does not need to provide credit card or other sensitive financial information that relates to the user s financial institution to the merchant the consumer only provides sensitive information to a single entity that is consistent throughout all transactions regardless of the various merchant selected. Again as opposed to closed loop transaction that generally required the merchant to be equipped to communicate with the ODS server now the transaction may be completed virtually anywhere.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been disclosed those having ordinary skill in the art will understand that changes can be made to the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is not to be restricted therefore to the specific embodiments. Furthermore it is intended that the appended claims cover any and all such applications modifications and embodiments within the scope of the present invention.

