---

title: Voice commands for online social networking systems
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes accessing a social graph that includes a plurality of nodes and edges, receiving from a first user a voice message comprising one or more commands, receiving location information associated with the first user, identifying edges and nodes in the social graph based on the location information, where each of the identified edges and nodes corresponds to at least one of the commands of the voice message, and generating new nodes or edges in the social graph based on the identified nodes or identified edges.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09043703&OS=09043703&RS=09043703
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09043703
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121016
---
This disclosure generally relates to performing actions on an online social network using audio inputs.

A social networking system which may include a social networking website may enable its users such as persons or organizations to interact with it and with each other through it. The social networking system may with input from a user create and store in the social networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic information communication channel information and information on personal interests of the user. The social networking system may also with input from a user create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social networking system as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between or among users.

The social networking system may transmit over one or more networks content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and other data within the social networking system. The social networking system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user such as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.

A mobile computing device such as a smartphone tablet computer or laptop computer may include functionality for determining its location direction or orientation such as a GPS receiver compass or gyroscope. Such a device may also include functionality for wireless communication such as BLUETOOTH communication near field communication NFC or infrared IR communication or communication with a wireless local area networks WLANs or cellular telephone network. Such a device may also include one or more cameras scanners touchscreens microphones or speakers. Mobile computing devices may also execute software applications such as games web browsers or social networking applications. With social networking applications users may connect communicate and share information with other users in their social networks.

In particular embodiments a user of an online social network may use their mobile computing device to take particular actions on the online social network. An online social network includes a social graph that consists of particular types of nodes and edges. Because there are particular types of nodes and edges simple and intuitive voice commands may be used to modify the social graph. For example voice commands may be used to cause the social networking system to create new nodes in the social graph or to create new edges connecting particular nodes. Furthermore location information provided by the mobile computing device may be used to help parse a voice command to identify the appropriate action to perform on the social graph and the particular social graph elements on which to perform the action. Thus a user could use their mobile computing device to for example check in to their current location friend other users that are nearby or perform similar actions on the online social network.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate. Although this disclosure described accessing the social networking system and other systems in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates accessing the social networking system or other systems in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way of limitation a dedicated client application may be used to access the social networking system .

In particular embodiments client system may include an audio input such as a microphone that is operable to receive and or record voice messages or other audio data. As an example and not by way of limitation a user of the client system may make speak a voice message into an audio input which may be converted into an electronic signal and processed by an audio adapter of the client system allowing the voice message to be further analyzed or processed by the client system . Audio data received by the audio input may be transmitted to a social networking system a third party system or another suitable system in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way of limitation audio data may be transmitted via a web browser . As another example and not by way of limitation audio data may be transmitted via a dedicated client application. Although this disclosure describes receiving particular audio data in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates receiving any suitable audio data in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and transmit social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational columnar correlation or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of databases. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections i.e. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module ad targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Ad pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may transmit a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Ramble On using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may use voice commands on a mobile client system to take particular actions on an online social network. Because the social graph has particular nodes and edges and types of nodes and edges simple and intuitive voice commands may be used to modify the social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation voice commands may be used to cause the social networking system to create new concept nodes or to create new edges connecting particular nodes. Furthermore the location information associated with a particular user may be used to help parse a voice command to identify the appropriate action to perform on the social graph and the particular social graph elements on which to perform the action. Thus a user could use his mobile client system to check in to his current location friend other users that are nearby or perform similar actions on the online social network. In particular embodiments the social networking system may modify the social graph in response to voice messages and location information from a mobile client system associated with a user. A user may speak into a microphone on their mobile client system and say for example check in here. The social networking system may then receive location information from the mobile client system that indicates that the user is currently located at a particular location or event. The social networking system may then identify a concept node in the social graph corresponding to that particular location or event and identify the voice command check in as corresponding to a check in edge . The social networking system may then generate a check in edge connecting the user node associated with the user and the concept node associated with the particular location or event. Although this disclosure describes using particular methods to process social voice commands on an online social network this disclosure contemplates using any suitable method to process social voice commands on the online social network.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may receive from a first user corresponding to a first user node a voice message comprising one or more commands. If mobile client system includes an audio input the mobile client system may allow a user to speak a voice message that can be received and recorded by the mobile client system . A user may speak any suitable voice message into the audio input . In particular embodiments the mobile client device may include dictation software that can convert the user s voice into a sentence. Then natural language processing software or another suitable system may be used to parse the sentence into one or more commands. In general each command is a contiguous sequence of n items from a given sequence of speech. The items may be characters phonemes syllables letters words base pairs prefixes or other identifiable items from the sequence of speech. Each command may include one or more parts from the voice message received from the first user. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may say check in here which may be parsed to identify the commands check in and here . This may cause the social networking system to generate a check in type edge connecting the first user s user node to the concept node corresponding to the first user s current location i.e. here . As another example and not by way of limitation a first user may say friend Steph which may be pared to identify the commands friend and Steph . This may cause the social networking system to generate a friend type edge connecting the first user s user node to the user node corresponding to a user named Stephanie who is near the first user s current location. Other example voice messages include like Acme share with my family and work friends after taking a picture with the mobile client system message Matt I m running late . Although this disclosure describes receiving particular voice messages in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates receiving any suitable voice messages in any suitable manner. Furthermore although this disclosure describes particular systems performing particular processes this disclosure contemplates any suitable systems performing any suitable processes. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may speak into a mobile client system and then audio data may be transmitted to the social networking system which may then process the audio data to parse the user s voice message and to identify particular voice commands. Alternatively these steps described above may be performed using any suitable combination of the mobile client system the social networking system or another suitable system.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may receive location information about a user from a mobile client system associated with the user. Location information for the mobile client system may be continuously captured by the device e.g. by special purpose client applications hosted on the device and transmitted to the social networking system . The social networking system may then log the location of the user after the location information is received. In particular embodiments the social networking system may maintain a database of information relating to various locations or events. A location may be general e.g. a city or specific e.g. a particular street name or intersection or GPS coordinate. Specific locations may also include various physical venues such as businesses restaurants bars train stations airports theaters parks and the like. Similarly a variety of events may occur at these locations. Events may include concerts movies parties social gatherings conferences business meetings and the like. In particular embodiments each location or event may correspond to a concept node in the social graph . The social networking system may allow users to access information regarding each place using a client application e.g. a web browser hosted a client system . In particular embodiments the social networking system may log or maintain various types of location information about the user. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may support geo social networking system functionality including one or more location based services that record the user s location. Users may access the geo social networking system using a special purpose client application hosted by a mobile client system of the user or a web or network based application using a web browser . The client application may automatically access Global Positioning System GPS or other geo location functions supported by the mobile client system and report the user s current location or presence at an event at that location to the geo social networking system. In addition the client application may support geo social networking functionality that allows users to check in at various venues or events and communicate this to other users. A check in to a given venue or event may occur when a user is physically located at the venue or event and using a mobile device access the geo social networking system to register the user s presence. A user may select a venue or event from a list of existing venues or events near to the user s current position or create a new venue or event. The mobile client system may determine its geo location based on GPS signals locations of WLAN access points cellular signal triangulation or by using another suitable geo location method. The mobile client system may also indicate that a user is at a particular event or venue based on information provided at the event or venue. As an example and not by way of limitation event or venues may have unique identifiers that can be provided to the mobile client system e.g. scannable QR codes location IDs that can be entered into the device etc. . In particular embodiments location information received from multiple users may be used to determine which users are proximate to each other. Thus the social networking system may receive location information indicating that a first user is proximate to a second user. Although this disclosure describes determining particular location information for users in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining any suitable location information for users in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may determine or calculate for each command identified in the voice message a score that the command corresponds to a social graph element. The score may be for example a confidence score a probability a quality a ranking another suitable type of score or any combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may determine a probability score also referred to simply as a probability that the command corresponds to a social graph element such as a user node a concept node or an edge of social graph . The probability score may indicate the level of similarity or relevance between the command and a particular social graph element. There may be many different ways to calculate the probability. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable method to calculate a probability score for a command identified in a search query. In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine a probability p that a command identified in a voice message corresponds to a particular social graph element. The probability p may be calculated as the probability of corresponding to a particular social graph element k given a particular voice message X. In other words the probability may be calculated as p k X . As an example and not by way of limitation a probability that a command corresponds to a social graph element may calculated as an probability score denoted as p. The input may be a text query X x x . . . x and a set of classes. For each i j and a class k the social networking system may compute p p class x k X . In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine the probability that a particular command corresponds to a social graph element based on a language model. Any suitable probabilistic language model may be used to determine the probability that a particular command corresponds to a particular social graph element. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may use an n gram model a segmental Markov model a grammar language model another suitable probabilistic language model or any combination thereof. Although this disclosure describes determining whether voice commands correspond to social graph elements in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining whether voice commands correspond to social graph elements in any suitable manner. Moreover although this disclosure describes determining whether a command from a voice message corresponds to a social graph element using a particular type of score this disclosure contemplates determining whether a command corresponds to a social graph element using any suitable type of score.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine the probability that a particular command corresponds to a social graph element based on the location information associated with the first user. As an example and not by way of limitation when determining a probability p that a command corresponds to a particular social graph element the calculation of the probability may also factor in location information. Thus the probability of corresponding to a particular social graph element k given a particular voice message X and location information L may be calculated as p k X L . Location information may be used to determine the relevance of a particular social graph element to a particular user. User nodes and concept nodes corresponding to users and concepts e.g. geographic positions venues events respectively that are proximate to the first user may be considered more relevant to the first user than more distant users and concepts. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may determine that the command here corresponds to a venue at the geographic location reported by the user s mobile client system . As another example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may determine that the command this event corresponds to an event that the user checked in to on the online social network earlier that day. As yet another example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may determine that the command starbucks which could correspond to various locations of the STARBUCKS coffee shop corresponds to the STARBUCKS coffee shop that is nearest to the first user s current location. Although this disclosure describes determining whether commands correspond to social graph elements based on location information in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining whether commands correspond to social graph elements based on location information in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine the probability that a particular command corresponds to a social graph element based on social graph information. As an example and not by way of limitation when determining a probability p that a command corresponds to a particular social graph element the calculation of the probability may also factor in social graph information. Thus the probability of corresponding to a particular social graph element k given a particular voice message X and social graph information G may be calculated as p k X G . Social graph information may be used to determine the social relevance of a particular social graph element to a particular user. User nodes and concept nodes that are connected to the first user node directly by an edge may be considered relevant to the first user. Furthermore in particular embodiments the closer the second node is to the first user node the more relevant the second node may be considered to the first user node. That is the fewer edges separating the first user node from a particular user node or concept node i.e. the fewer degrees of separation the more relevant that user node or concept node may be considered to the first user. In particular embodiments the probability that a command from a voice message corresponds to a particular node may be based on the degree of separation between the user node of the first user and the particular node. A particular command may have a higher probability of corresponding to a social graph element that is closer in the social graph to the querying user i.e. fewer degrees of separation between the element and the first user node than a social graph element that is further from the user i.e. more degrees of separation . As an example and not by way of limitation if the first user speaks the voice message friend jenny the calculated probability that the command jenny corresponds to a second degree user node i.e. a node that is two degrees of separation from the user node of the first user for a user named Jenny may be higher than the calculated probability that this command corresponds to a third degree user node for a different user also named Jenny. In particular embodiments the social networking system may only determine the probability that a particular command corresponds to node within a threshold degree of separation of the user node corresponding to the first user. A particular node may only be considered relevant to the first user if that particular node is within a threshold degree of separation of the user node of the first user. Thus nodes beyond the threshold degree of separation may be assigned a zero or null probability of corresponding to the command. Alternatively when resolving voice commands the social networking system may only access nodes within the threshold degree of separation and only determine probabilities for those nodes. The threshold degree of separation may be for example one two three or all. Although this disclosure describes determining whether commands correspond to social graph elements based on social graph information in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining whether commands correspond to social graph elements based on social graph information in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the probability that a command corresponds to a particular node may be based on the search history associated with the first user. Nodes that the first user has previously accessed or are relevant to the nodes the first user has previously accessed may be more likely to be the target of the first user s voice command. As an example and not by way of limitation if the first user has previously visited the concept profile page for the location Old Pro then when determining the probability that the command old pro corresponds to the concept node corresponding to this page the social networking system may determine that the concept node for Old Pro has a relatively high probability of corresponding to the command old pro because the first user has previously accessed that concept node and may in fact already be connected to that node with a viewed edge . Although this disclosure describes determining whether commands correspond to social graph elements based on search history in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining whether commands correspond to social graph elements based on search history in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may identify one or more nodes or one or more edges having a score greater than a threshold score. Each of the identified nodes or identified edges may correspond to at least one of the commands. As an example and not by way of limitation the command may only be identified as corresponding to a particular social graph element k if p p. Although this disclosure describes identifying node and edges that corresponding to commands in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates identifying edges that corresponding to commands in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may generate one or more new nodes or one or more new edges in the social graph based on the identified nodes or identified edges. In this way various social commands such as check in friend like share message and the like may be executed and the social graph may be modified accordingly. In particular embodiments the social networking system may generate one or more new edges in the social graph connecting the user node of the first user to one or more of the identified nodes. A user may desire to take particular social actions such as liking checking in or friending on the online social network which indicate a particular relationship between the user and another user or concept. The user may use particular voice commands to take these actions which may be represented by new edges in the social graph connecting the user node of the first user to another node. As an example and not by way of limitation in response to the voice message check in here which contains the commands check in and here corresponding to a check in type edge and a concept node of the first user s current location respectively the social networking system may generate a new check in type edge connecting the user node of the first user to the concept node of the user s current location. As another example and not by way of limitation in response to the voice message like this event which contains the commands like and this event corresponding to a like type edge and a concept node of an event the first user is currently attending which may be determined based on his location information respectively the social networking system may generate a new like type edge connecting the user node of the first user to the concept node of the event. In particular embodiments the social networking system may generate one or more new nodes and one or more new edges in the social graph where the new edges connect the new nodes to the user node corresponding to the first user. The new nodes may correspond to content files received from the mobile client system of the first user wherein each new node corresponds to a particular content file. A user may desire to post or send photos comments messages or other suitable content on the online social network. The user may use particular voice commands to send or post these content files which may be any suitable file type and these new content files may then be represented in the social graph by new concept nodes . New profile pages may also be generated for any new content files received. As an example and not by way of limitation the first user may take a photo with his mobile client system and then input the voice message post to this event s page. The mobile client system may then parse the voice message to identify the commands post to this event s and page. The command post to may correspond to a new node generated by the social networking system corresponding to the photo taken by the first user. The command this event s may correspond to a concept node for an event the first user is currently attending which may be determined for example based on the first user s location information . Thus in response to this voice message the social networking system may modify the social graph by generating a new concept node corresponding to the photo and then generate a new edge connecting the new concept node with the concept node for the event the first user is currently attending. Furthermore the photo may then be displayed on a concept profile page corresponding to the concept node for the event a new concept profile page may also be generated for the photo . Although this disclosure describes generating new nodes and new edges in the social graph in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates generating new nodes and new edges in the social graph in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may identify privacy setting corresponding to at least one of the commands of the voice message. The privacy setting may indicate which second users of the online social network may access content files corresponding to a new node generated by the social networking system as described previously. Once the privacy setting is identified the social networking system may then apply the privacy setting to one or more of the new nodes thereby restricting access to the corresponding content files. As an example and not by way of limitation the first user may take a photo with his mobile client system and then input the voice message share this photo with my friends. The mobile client system may parse the voice message to identify the commands share this photo and with my friends where the command this photo corresponds to a new node generated by the social networking system corresponding to the photo taken by the first user. The command with my friends corresponds to a privacy setting indicating that the photo should only be viewable by first degree friends of the first user i.e. those second users connected by a friend type edge to the user node of the first user . Once the photo is posted on the online social network the social networking system may then apply the privacy settings as described above to the photo allowing only the first user s first degree friends to view the photo. Although this disclosure describes identifying and applying privacy settings in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates identifying or applying privacy setting in any suitable manner.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

