---

title: Dominant hand detection for computing devices
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for dominant hand detection in a computing device such as a mobile computing device. A dominant hand preference of a user of the computing device is automatically detected. A user interface rendered by the computing device is automatically adapted based at least in part on the dominant hand preference.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08760426&OS=08760426&RS=08760426
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08760426
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120326
---
Humans often have a dominant hand resulting from unequal distribution of fine motor skills between the left and right hands. An individual who is more dexterous with the right hand is called right handed and one who is more skilled with the left is said to be left handed. Some people are equally skilled with both hands and are called ambidextrous. Many theories exist to explain the cause of handedness which may include biological and environmental factors.

The present disclosure relates to detecting a dominant hand in the context of computing devices such as mobile computing devices. Right handed people and left handed people may prefer to use their mobile computing devices differently. To this end different user interfaces may be generated for right handed users versus left handed users. A right handed user may prefer to use controls situated on the right side of a touchscreen display while a left handed user may prefer to use controls situated on the left side of the touchscreen display. Other users may be equally comfortable with using one or both hands making either interface or a mixture of the two an appropriate choice. There may be many variations on this such as locating more important controls on one side of the display versus the other. To enable such customized user interfaces according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the dominant hand of the user is ascertained.

However for an optimal user experience it may be preferable not to ask the user for a dominant hand preference explicitly. Requiring explicit input from the user may lead to frustration and non compliance. Various embodiments of the present disclosure automatically determine i.e. without explicit user intervention the dominant hand of the user through the ordinary use of a mobile computing device. Many factors may be considered in such a determination for example how a user picks up the mobile computing device how the user carries the mobile computing device how the user interacts with a touchscreen of the mobile computing device and so on. An initial determination may be made for the user associated with the mobile computing device. The initial determination may be revised in some embodiments to account for different potentially ephemeral users of the mobile computing device. In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a computing device according to various embodiments. The computing device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer personal digital assistants cellular telephones smartphones set top boxes music players web pads tablet computer systems game consoles electronic book readers or other devices with like capability. The computing device may correspond for example to a mobile computing device a handheld computing device etc.

The computing device may include a display . The display may comprise for example one or more devices such as cathode ray tubes CRTs liquid crystal display LCD screens gas plasma based flat panel displays LCD projectors or other types of display devices etc. The computing device may include a plurality of sensor devices . . . N. The sensor devices may include ambient light sensors digital cameras accelerometers gyroscopes altimeters global positioning system GPS receivers thermal sensors microphones moisture sensors and so on. The computing device may include a touch input device such as a touch screen a touch pad and or other touch devices.

The computing device may be configured to execute various applications such as browsers multimedia players games instant message clients electronic book readers document viewers mobile applications office productivity applications social networking applications photo manipulation applications video editing applications and or other applications . Each of the applications may be configured to render a respective user interface on the display . The computing device may be configured to execute an operating system such as for example ANDROID MICROSOFT WINDOWS APPLE IOS LINUX etc.

The computing device executes a dominant hand detection service which is configured to automatically detect a dominant hand preference of a user of the computing device . That is to say a user may have a dominant hand preference for the left hand or the right hand. Alternatively some users may be ambidextrous and nearly equally able to use either the left or right hands or both left and right hands simultaneously. The dominant hand detection service detects the dominant hand preference based for example on user input data relative to the touch input device sensor data generated by the sensor devices and or other data. The dominant hand detection service may evaluate the data against a detection rule set to make a determination.

The computing device may store various data such as the dominant hand preference the detection rule set and or other data. The dominant hand preference may indicate a preference for a dominant hand or for both hands if such a preference has been determined by the dominant hand detection service . In one embodiment multiple dominant hand preferences may be stored where each of the dominant hand preferences is associated with a different user and or a different context of using the computing device e.g. a different application a different user interface rendered by an application and so on .

The detection rule set includes various rules that are evaluated against the sensor data and or touch input data to determine whether the user meets a left handed preference profile a right handed preference profile or a preference profile associated with using both hands. The detection rule set may be created using a control set of data for a multitude of users having known dominant hand preferences. To this end the detection rule set may be generated using a machine learning approach. The control set of data may be referred to as a golden set of data in the field of machine learning.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the computing device is provided. The user begins using the computing device . As the user uses the computing device the dominant hand detection service may execute in the background continuously or periodically to gather data. The data is obtained implicitly through ordinary use of the computing device by the user irrespective to the dominant hand preference detection. The data may include various sensor data acquired from the sensor devices . The data may also include touch input data created as a result of the user interacting with the touch input device .

The dominant hand detection service is configured to automatically detect the dominant hand preference based at least in part on the sensor data and or the touch input data. To this end the dominant hand detection service may include a pipeline of classifiers that evaluate the various data with respect to the criteria in the detection rule set . The detection rule set may specify various thresholds which are compared with the acquired data values. The acquired data values may be filtered to exclude noise in some embodiments.

In one embodiment the detection rule set is preconfigured on the computing device before the computing device is delivered to the user. In another embodiment the detection rule set is loaded on the computing device when the dominant hand detection service is installed on the computing device . In yet another embodiment the dominant hand detection service obtains the detection rule set on demand by way of a network. In still another embodiment the detection rule set and a portion of the dominant hand detection service is hosted by a server on a remote computing system accessible by way of a network. In such a case the dominant hand detection service may communicate with the server to accomplish the task of dominant hand detection.

Various non limiting examples of data that may indicate a dominant hand preference will next be described. As a first example the sensor data may include data corresponding to the user picking up the computing device . The computing device may be a mobile computing device such as a handheld smartphone tablet etc. which is situated against a surface. When the user picks up the computing device if the user has a dominant hand the user will likely pick up the computing device from the side corresponding to the dominant hand.

Accordingly readings from accelerometers gyroscopes light sensors thermal sensors moisture sensors microphones etc. may be used to determine that the computing device is being picked up from the left side or the right side. The accelerometer may indicate that the device is being picked up from a resting position while a gyroscope may indicate an orientation towards the left or right side depending on how the user is holding the computing device . To illustrate if the user picks up the device from the right side with the right hand the computing device may tend to be oriented such that the right side is elevated above the left. Also a thermal sensor moisture sensor microphone or touch sensor may be used on the case of the computing device to determine on which side it is being held.

The dominant hand detection service may compare the data gathered from the picking up of the computing device with a left handed pickup profile and a right handed pickup profile as defined by the detection rule set . Depending on the frequency of such identification and or other detected factors a dominant hand preference may be ascertained or inferred. If the user appears to pick up the computing device randomly on various sides the data may weigh towards a preference for the use of both hands and or no detected preference.

As a second example the sensor data may include data corresponding to the user carrying the computing device e.g. in a pocket. The computing device may be a mobile computing device such as a handheld smartphone tablet etc. which is situated against a surface. When the user places the computing device in a pocket if the user has a dominant hand the user may for example prefer to place the computing device in a pocket corresponding to the side of the dominant hand.

The dominant hand detection service may analyze the data gathered from placing the computing device in the pocket to determine whether the pocket correspond to a left handed pocket profile or a right handed pocket profile as defined by thresholds or other criteria in the detection rule set . Depending on the frequency of such identification and or other detected factors a dominant hand preference may be ascertained or inferred. If the user appears to place the computing device randomly in different pockets the data may weigh towards a preference for the use of both hands and or no detected preference. In some scenarios the dominant hand detection service may analyze the data gathered to estimate a gait of the user to determine whether the computing device is carried in a left or right pocket and or by the left or right hand.

As a third example the touch input data may include data indicating various touches or gestures relative to the touch input device . The dominant hand detection service may determine an activity frequency of the user relative to each one of multiple regions on the touch input device. For example frequent initial touches in a right side region of the touch input device to form a gesture may weigh toward recognition of a right handed preference. By contrast frequent initial touches in a left side region of the touch input device to form a gesture may weigh toward recognition of a left handed preference.

The determination may be made with respect to thresholds or other criteria specified in the detection rule set . The activity frequencies relative to the regions may be evaluated against the thresholds or other criteria. Depending on the frequency of such touches and or other detected factors a dominant hand preference may be ascertained or inferred. If the user appears to touch the left region and or the right region of the touch input device with a statistically insignificant difference the data may weigh towards a preference for the use of both hands and or no detected preference.

Various touch interactions with the touch input device may be termed gestures. The detection rule set may include thresholds and or criteria to be evaluated for gestures. To the extent that the touch of the user may correspond to a gesture having a certain shape and or direction the dominant hand detection service may identify a dominant hand preference based on the shapes and directions for multiple gestures performed by the user.

The touch imprint shape on the touch input device may be a factor as will be discussed in the next example with reference to . illustrates one example of a handheld computing device having a touch screen which includes both a display and a touch input device . Two exemplary touch imprints and are shown relative to the touch screen . Each of the touch imprints corresponds to a finger imprint of a user on the touch screen . It is noted that touch imprints and are different. Touch imprint is oblong and oriented to the right which may be indicative of an imprint from a left hand finger. However touch imprint is oblong and oriented to the left which may be indicative of an imprint from a right hand finger.

The determination of the shape of the touch imprints may be made with respect to thresholds or other criteria specified in the detection rule set . Depending on the frequency of similar touch imprints and or other detected factors a dominant hand preference may be ascertained. If the user appears to touch with both hands with a statistically insignificant difference or if the shapes are not automatically distinguishable the data may weigh towards a preference for the use of both hands and or no detected preference.

Returning now to once a dominant hand preference is automatically detected the dominant hand preference may be utilized to adjust and customize user interfaces rendered by the computing device on the display . This adjustment may correspond to a reflow of the user interfaces and or a selection of different user interfaces . The user interfaces may correspond to various applications in the computing device . For example in a media player user interface a volume slider may be oriented at an expected position of the thumb of the dominant hand.

To illustrate if a left hand preference is determined a user interface may be automatically adjusted such that frequently used controls are located toward the left side of the user interface . Conversely if a right hand preference is determined the user interface may be automatically adjusted such that frequently used controls are located toward the left side of the user interface . Further controls intended to be used by the non dominant hand e.g. controls on the side of the user interface corresponding to the non dominant side may be made larger to facilitate ease of selection with the non dominant hand.

The dominant hand preference may be made available to the applications by way of an application programming interface API . The applications may then use this information to decide when and how to adjust their respective user interfaces . Alternatively the operating system and or user interface libraries may use this information to automatically adjust the user interfaces without any explicit programming by the developers of the applications .

Although it is contemplated that the dominant hand preference may be customarily detected without an intentional indication of the dominant hand preference by the user and without prompting of the user the dominant hand detection service may request user confirmation in some embodiments. If confirmation or rejection is not explicitly provided the dominant hand detection service may discard the dominant hand preference or establish the dominant hand preference in various embodiments.

In one embodiment the dominant hand preference may be a permanent setting for the computing device . In another embodiment the dominant hand preference may be a permanent setting tied to the specific user. If associated with a user the dominant hand preference may be transferred via network to a server which may publicize the dominant hand preference for use on other computing devices in use by the user. The dominant hand preference may also be associated with specific applications or user interfaces of applications . As other users ephemerally use the computing device the dominant hand detection service may continue to run and determine potentially changed dominant hand preferences for the ephemeral users.

Also as a user continues use of the computing device the dominant hand preference of the user may change and may be updated by the dominant hand detection service . In some cases the dominant hand preference may be detected inaccurately. In such cases additional data that is gathered may enable a recalibration of the dominant hand preference . For example a user interface may be adapted for left handed use. The user may repeatedly miss a button located on the left side of the user interface or hit the right side of the button rather than the left side. Consequently the dominant hand detection service may recalibrate the dominant hand preference for right handed use. The user interface may then be reflowed or updated for right handed use.

Turning now to shown are four examples of user interfaces and rendered on a touch screen of a computing device . The user interfaces are rendered by a music player application executed in the computing device .

In the example of a right handed preference has been detected so the controls of the user interface are oriented toward the right side of the touch screen to ease accessibility by the right hand. In the example of a left handed preference has been detected so the controls are oriented toward the left side of the touch screen to ease accessibility by the left hand. The other content and controls of the user interface have been reflowed relative to the user interface to account for the different position of the controls as compared to the controls

In the example of a preference for using both left and right hands has been identified. Accordingly the control elements in the user interface are split among the controls on the left side and the controls on the right side. In the example of no preference has been identified. Accordingly the controls are in a non hand specific location in the user interface . The controls may be equally accessible to either hand. In other embodiments the user interfaces or may be the default when no preference is identified or if a preference for both hands is identified.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the dominant hand detection service according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the dominant hand detection service as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the dominant hand detection service obtains sensor data from one or more of the sensor devices and or user input data relative to the touch input device . In box the dominant hand detection service evaluates the sensor data and or the user input data with the detection rule set . The dominant hand detection service may also evaluate intermediate state data previously saved by the dominant hand detection service . In box the dominant hand detection service determines whether a dominant hand preference is automatically detected according to the detection rule set using the sensor data and or the user input data that has been acquired. If a dominant hand preference is not detected the dominant hand detection service may store intermediate state data in box . Then the dominant hand detection service returns to box and continues acquiring sensor data and or user input data.

If a dominant hand preference is automatically detected the dominant hand detection service proceeds instead from box to box . In box the dominant hand detection service stores the dominant hand preference . In some embodiments the dominant hand detection service may confirm the dominant hand preference with the user. As a non limiting example the dominant hand detection service may render a dialog on the display informing the user that a preference for right handed use has been identified and allowing the user to confirm or reject the possible preference.

Next in box the dominant hand detection service determines whether a left hand preference has been identified. If a left hand preference has been identified in box the dominant hand detection service adjusts the user interface of one or more applications for left handed use. The dominant hand detection service proceeds to box . If a left hand preference has not been identified the dominant hand detection service instead moves from box to box .

In box the dominant hand detection service determines whether a right hand preference has been identified. If a right hand preference has been identified in box the dominant hand detection service adjusts the user interface for one or more applications for right handed use. The dominant hand detection service proceeds to box . If a right hand preference has not been identified the dominant hand detection service instead moves from box to box . In box because a preference for either the left hand or the right hand has not been identified the dominant hand detection service adjusts the user interface for use by both hands which may be used alternately or simultaneously. The dominant hand detection service continues to box .

In box the dominant hand detection service optionally determines whether a stored dominant hand preference is to be recalibrated or modified. In one example a preference for a user may be initially stored and used for a device configuration lifetime. In other examples a preference may be stored for each application and or a portion of each application that renders a corresponding user interface . In yet another example a preference may be continuously recalibrated for a user and or other users of the computing device . If the dominant hand detection service determines that the dominant hand preference is to be recalibrated the dominant hand detection service returns to box and continues acquiring data. Otherwise the portion of the dominant hand detection service ends.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end the computing device may comprise for example at least one mobile computing system or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated. The local interface may be coupled to the display the sensor devices the touch input device and or other devices.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the applications the dominant hand detection service and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be the dominant hand preference the detection rule set and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Delphi Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the applications the dominant hand detection service and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowchart of shows the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the dominant hand detection service . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowchart of shows a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the applications and the dominant hand detection service that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

