---

title: Wireless/wired mobile communication device with option to automatically block wireless communication when connected for wired communication
abstract: A mobile wireless communication device also has at least one wired communication port. Enhanced security is achieved by permitting the device to automatically disable one or more wireless ports when connected to a wired port. Specific combinations/permutations of such automatic control may be effected by use of an IT Policy also resident on the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583056&OS=08583056&RS=08583056
owner: Blackberry Limited
number: 08583056
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120112
---
The present application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 976 303 filed Oct. 29 2004 the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates to apparatus method and stored computer program media effecting improved communications network security for wired and wireless communications networks interfacing with a device capable of communicating with either type of network.

Many modern wireless mobile communication devices also include a wired connection port that may be utilized for connections to wired networks. There may also be a plurality of wireless communication ports made available e.g. traditional RF Bluetooth infra red e.g. irda and the like . If such wired and wireless communication ports are simultaneously connected to different networks then it is possible for that device to constitute a security threat e.g. as a potential gateway between networks having different security levels . For example a wired network may typically be thought to have a higher level of security associated with it than does a wireless network.

Disparities in perceived security between different wired networks and or sub networks is also possible. For example a feature known as split tunneling was created possibly to allow unhindered web surfing and corporate virtual private network VPN access simultaneously from remote personal computers. This permits a reduced load on the VPN gateway but it can also allow an application running on a client to maliciously forward packets from the Internet to the more security conscious enterprise network.

In the case of split tunneling it has been recognized that some of the potential danger can be minimized by turning off the split tunneling feature whenever the client is connected to the VPN. However the potential security risk caused by simultaneous wireless and wired connection of a mobile communication device to networks having different security levels continues to present potential security issues.

A related problem is addressed in an earlier commonly assigned application 60 424 723 filed Nov. 8 2002 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD OF CONNECTION CONTROL FOR WIRELESS MOBILE COMMUNICATION DEVICES now non provisional application Ser. No. 10 698 602 filed Oct. 31 2003 naming Michael G. Kirkup Herbert A. Little David Yach as inventors.

A wired wireless mobile communication device is provided with an enhanced security feature that permits automatic blocking of wireless communication when it is connected for wired communication. Such enhanced security may if desired be effected subject to an IT Policy residing in the device e.g. as downloaded by an IT administrator .

A mobile wireless communication device having a plurality of communication ports may have a computer driven control circuit connected to control communication via each of those plural ports. An enhanced security sub routine can be incorporated into that control circuit and adapted to automatically control i.e. turn off at least one wireless communication port whenever a wired port is connected for use.

In the exemplary embodiments the wired port can be a USB port and the wireless port can be a traditional RF transceiver circuit. However the wireless port may also be a Bluetooth communication circuit an infra red or other optical communication circuit or any other wireless port. Similarly the wired port may be a serial or parallel or any other wired digital data communication port.

In the exemplary embodiments the security sub routine effects automatic control in conformance with an IT Policy that also resides within the control circuit. This gives an IT administrator to power to set an IT Policy that might for example either enable the enhanced security feature or disable it.

Although control of the physical ports may be achieved in various ways the exemplary embodiment achieves control over the RF wireless transceiver by calling an API for the RF transceiver and temporarily disabling it from use i.e. effectively turning the transceiver off if a connection is sensed as being present at a wired USB port.

This invention may be embedded in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The invention provides a method for achieving enhanced security in a wireless wired mobile communication device by automatically blocking wireless communication when connected for wired communication.

An e mail sender may for example be connected to an ISP Internet Service Provider on which a user of the system has an account located within a company possibly connected to a local area network LAN and connected to the Internet or connected to the Internet through a large ASP application service provider such as American Online AOL . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the systems shown in may instead be connected to a wide area network WAN other than the Internet although e mail transfers are commonly accomplished through Internet connected arrangements as shown in .

The message server may be implemented for example on a network computer within the firewall of a corporation a computer within an ISP or ASP system or the like and acts as the main interface for e mail exchange over the Internet . Although other messaging systems might not require a message server system a mobile device configured for receiving and possibly sending e mail will normally be associated with an account on a message server. Perhaps the two most common message servers are Microsoft Exchange and Lotus Domino . These products are often used in conjunction with Internet mail routers that route and deliver mail. These intermediate components are not shown in as they do not directly play a role in the invention described below. Message servers such as server typically extend beyond just e mail sending and receiving they also include dynamic database storage engines that have predefined database formats for data like calendars to do lists task lists e mail and documentation.

The wireless gateway and infrastructure provide a link between the Internet and wireless network . The wireless infrastructure determines the most likely network for locating a given user and tracks the users as they roam between countries or networks. A message is then delivered to the mobile device via wireless transmission typically at a radio frequency RF from a base station in the wireless network to the mobile device . The particular network may be virtually any wireless network over which messages may be exchanged with a mobile communication device.

As shown in a composed e mail message is sent by the e mail sender located somewhere on the Internet . This message typically uses traditional Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP RFC headers and multipurpose Internet Mail Extension MIME body parts to define the format of the mail message. These techniques are all well known to those skilled in the art. The message arrives at the message server and is normally stored in a message store. Most known messaging systems support a so called pull message access scheme wherein the mobile device must request that stored messages be forwarded by the message server to the mobile device . Some systems provide for automatic routing of such messages which are addressed using a specific e mail address associated with the mobile device . In a preferred embodiment messages addressed to a message server account associated with a host system such as a home computer or office computer which belongs to the user of a mobile device are redirected from the message server to the mobile device as they are received.

Regardless of the specific mechanism controlling forwarding of messages to mobile device the message or possibly a translated or reformatted version thereof is sent to wireless gateway . The wireless infrastructure includes a series of connections to wireless network . These connections could be Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN Frame Relay or T connections using the TCP IP protocol used throughout the Internet. As used herein the term wireless network is intended to include three different types of networks those being 1 data centric wireless networks 2 voice centric wireless networks and 3 dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to 1 Code Division Multiple Access CDMA networks 2 the Group Special Mobile or the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and the General Packet Radio Service GPRS networks and 3 future third generation 3G networks like Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems UMTS . Some older examples of data centric network include the Mobitex Radio Network and the DataTAC Radio Network. Examples of older voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and TDMA systems.

The wireless RF communication port connection is made via antenna as depicted in . However the mobile wireless wired communication device also has a wired connection port which mates with a connection in a wired cradle to establish a wired digital communication link via a USB cable to USB port of the user desktop computer . As will be appreciated the user s computer is also connected to the user s wired office network as is the message server .

As depicted in mobile communication device includes a suitable RF antenna for wireless communication to from wireless network . Conventional RF demodulation modulation and decoding coding circuits are provided. As those in the art will appreciate such circuits can involve possibly many digital signal processors DSPs microprocessors filters analog and digital circuits and the like. However since such circuitry is well known in the art it is not further described.

The mobile communication device will also typically include a main control CPU which operates under control of a stored program in program memory and which has access to data memory . CPU also communicates with a conventional keyboard display e.g. an LCD and audio transducer or speaker . A portion of program memory is available for storing an enhanced security sub routine which may also interface with and use an IT Policy resident in data memory . Suitable computer program executable code is stored in portions of program memory to constitute the enhanced security sub routine logic described below.

As also depicted in the CPU is connected to a wired cradle USB connector which is in effect a USB port and or to any one or all of additional alternate input output wireless ports e.g. Irda Blue tooth etc. . As will be appreciated such wireless ports will be associated with suitable transducer Tthrough T.

An enhanced security sub routine is entered at as depicted in any time there is a sensed change in conductivity to a wired port. If the sensed change indicates a new connection state as determined at then the current IT Policy resident in the control circuitry i.e. in the data memory as previously downloaded by an IT administrator is accessed at . If the resident IT Policy permits simultaneous use of all wireless ports when also connected for wired communication via this particular wired port as determined at then the sub routine will be exited at . However if the IT Policy does not permit simultaneous use of all wireless ports when this particular wired port is connected for use then all the non permitted wireless ports for that particular wired port connection will be turned off at before the sub routine is exited at .

If the sensed change in wired port connectivity is a new disconnection state as determined at then all now permitted wireless ports are turned on at i.e. again in accordance with the current resident IT Policy before the sub routine is exited at .

In another exemplary embodiment as depicted in the enhanced security sub routine constitutes an enhanced USB port driver sub routine entered at . Here if the change indicates a new connection has been established at then the present IP Policy will be examined at to see if simultaneous RF port connection is permitted for the newly connected USB port. If so then the sub routine will be exited at . If not then the RF transceiver API is called at and altered so as to disable or turn the RF transceiver off . On the other hand if the detected change corresponds to a new disconnection state of the USB port as determined at then radio API is called at and in accordance with IT Policy the API is altered so as to re enable the radio or turn it on before exit of the sub routine is taken at .

When a typical wireless communication device is also connected to a wired computer network via the user s desktop software it is technically connected to two networks at the same time. The two networks are the normally used wireless network and the wired network associated with the user s computer it is typically temporarily now also connected to. Some security conscious organizations may be concerned about possible transmission of information between the wired computer network and the wireless network via the bridging communication device.

An IT Policy now may be defined which will allow an IT administrator to set the device into an enhanced security mode which will prevent this problem from occurring. The enhanced security mode solves the problem by turning off the radio transceiver when the device is wire connected to the computer. Using the USB port driver it can be determined when the device is being enumerated by the computer and as such the radio is then turned off. The radio is then automatically turned back on when the device wired port is disconnected from the computer. In brief summary one physical channel is disabled when another physical channel is detected. Bluetooth USB irda are examples of such physical channels.

In one exemplary embodiment the new enhanced security feature might be described as disable radio when cradled. In another it might be disable Bluetooth when cradled. In yet another it might be disable both radio and Bluetooth when cradled. For example it might be desired to leave Bluetooth enabled even when cradled so as to still permit use of a user ear piece. By making the enhanced security feature subject to an IT Policy for such details of possible combinations and permutations an IT administrator is given great flexibility to tailor the enhanced security mode for optimum use in a given environment.

While the invention has been described in connection with presently preferred exemplary embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications may be made to the exemplary embodiments while yet retaining many of the novel features and advantages of this invention. Accordingly all such variations and modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

