---

title: Providing a user with a web-supplement
abstract: An apparatus and method of providing a user with a web-browser supplement is disclosed. One method includes providing access to a focal group, wherein the focal group includes at least one member having at least one association with the user. Access is provided to information associated with the at least one member having relevance to the focal group. Web browsing by the user is supplemented by the information of the members of the focal group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08479100&OS=08479100&RS=08479100
owner: 
number: 08479100
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120817
---
This patent application patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 316 992 filed on Dec. 18 2008 which claims priority to provisional patent application No. 61 008 957 filed Dec. 21 2007 which in herein incorporated by reference.

The described embodiments relate generally to web browsing. More particularly the described embodiments relate to a method and apparatus for supplementing a user s web browsing.

The internet can connect individuals through for example a mesh of social networks portals commerce sites and forums. Many of these sites attempt to model relationships to facilitate commerce and build systems for providing recommendations. These social networks include many individuals that can interact with each other.

There is a lack however of a useful mechanism within social networks for mimicking interpersonal trust and reference networks. For example if one needs to find a babysitter a heart surgeon or a plumber one generally turns to trusted friends to obtain references. That is these referred service providers involve the well being of family and or impact ones finances and therefore are typically naturally screened by the person looking for a reference. However the recommendations provided by social networks do not include a personal connection between the recommender and the receiver of the recommendation. Additionally the strength of the recommendations can be difficult to determine.

It is desirable to have a method system and apparatus in which groups of commonly associated individuals can provide an internet user that is web browsing with additional intelligence. It is additionally desirable that the method system and apparatus be adaptively updated as information associated with the groups change over time.

One embodiment includes a method of providing a user with a web browser supplement. The method includes providing access to a focal group wherein the focal group includes at least one member having at least one association with the user. Access is provided to information associated with the at least one member having relevance to the focal group. Web browsing by the user is supplemented by information of the members of the focal group.

Another embodiment includes a method of overlaying web browsing with focal group intelligence. The method includes creating a focal group wherein the focal group includes at least one other user having at least one association with the user. Information about the at least one other user having relevance to the focal group is obtained. Web browsing by the user is over layed thereby supplementing the web browsing by the user by providing information of the other users of the focal group.

Other aspects and advantages of the described embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the described embodiments.

As shown in the drawings for purposes of illustration the described embodiments are embodied in an apparatus and method for supplementing web browsing of a user. The web browsing can be of any form including textual audio or visual formats and can be supplemented with any combinations of textual audio or visual formats or any other format that can be used for web browsing.

As shown the computing device is connected through a network to web server and a focal group server . For this example the web server allows the user to surf internet and access web pages. The web pages provide the user with information related to a subject as generally but not exclusively determined by the user. The web server and the focal group server are shown as separate servers. However it is to be understood that this is merely one example of how access to web page information and focal group information can be provided.

As shown the focal group server maintains information of the focal group. Generally this information includes the members of one or more focal groups that have some relationship with the user. Additionally the focal group server can maintain information of each user of each focal group. As will be described the members of the focal group can be one or more individuals and or corporate entities. The focal group can be created or borrowed from somewhere else. The information associated with each member can include many things such as for example preferences knowledge history of interactions with the user and or experiences of the member. Additionally the focal group information can be supplemented with focal group applications.

Supplementing the user s web browsing can be provided in one or more ways. The web browsing can be supplemented by for example providing additional information to information provided by a web page filtering information of the web page and or sorting information of the web page. Again the supplementation is based on the information associated with members of the focal group and therefore the intelligence of the focal group members can be used to the advantage of the user when web browsing.

Generally a focal group is a small restricted group of people who are associated based on activity or topic. The focal group can include for example a group of friends family members or people with common interests. As will be described a focal group can include any number of members. The member can be individual people or even corporate entities. The focal group can include for example a single person who is considered an expert in a particular subject area or the focal group can include many individual who are commonly associated by some activity or other criteria. The focal groups can be formed or borrowed from somewhere else.

As described web browsing of the user is supplemented by the focal group information. The focal group information can include for example a proficiency of group members a degree of affinity between group members a history of proficiency and affinity of group members a member s rating by group members reviews and or opinions of the member any information contributed by members events involving a group member actions taken by a group member requests for information put in by other group members for a group member and or member ownership of a product or usage of a service. It is to be understood that an embodiment includes the focal group information being dynamic. Actions by each of the focal group member can cause the focal group information to change.

The described embodiments can include various types of information associated with the members of the focal group. One type of information is the affinity of each focal group member with the user. The affinity can be adaptive and is generally based on the strength of the relationship and level of interaction between the each focal group member and the user. The affinity can be deduced and or assigned . An assigned affinity is one that is given by one focal group member to another based on an individual perception or information. A deduced affinity is one that is computed automatically from several assigned affinities based on one or more affinity formulas.

For other embodiments another type of information is a proficiency of each focal group member. The proficiency can be adaptive based on the level of competence and or expertise regarding a subject matter. Proficiency can be deduced and or assigned . An assigned proficiency is one that is given by one focal group member to another based on an individual perception or information. A deduced proficiency is one that is adaptively computed automatically from several assigned proficiencies.

For other embodiments another type of information includes focal group applications that can for example extend the overlay and run within the framework of overlay. An example of a focal group application includes for example an add to wish list application that includes an icon displayed on a web page such that when the icon is clicked selected it adds a given item displayed on the original web page to a focal group member s wish list. A wish list in this context is a list of items that the user wishes to own the list is maintained by the focal group user so that other users can access it and provide for example gift ideas .

As described an embodiment of the supplementing the user s web browsing includes providing the user with a web overlay. The overlay provides an intelligent software framework that runs focal group applications supplements filters sorts and displays the browsed information.

An embodiment of the overlay plug in includes a software component installed on a user s computer. For an embodiment the plug in is installed in a web browser as an extension. For an embodiment the purpose of the plug in is to provide the user with access to Focal Group servers and communicate with the servers. More specifically this embodiment includes sending contextual information describing the web location being visited by the user and or receiving instructions and information and or knowledge enabling the plug in software to supplement the browsed info.

The web page provides an example of a web overlay that supplements a web page being displayed by the computing device by providing additional information to the display that is for example related to the information of the original web page being displayed by the computing device. The additional information provides the user with related information from a more likely to be trusted source the focal group . The web page as viewed by the user includes the original web page text but additionally includes the overlay that includes supplement text that can be related to the information of the web page. The supplemental text of the overlay is derived or based on the information associated with the members of the focal group.

The web page provides another example of a web overlay that supplements a web page displayed by a computing device by filtering information of the web page . That is based on the information of the focal group information of the original web page is filtered thereby providing the web user with a better presentation of the original web page based on the information of the members of the focal group. The overlay can include filtered or sorted information of the information associated with focal group. For one embodiment the sorting amid or filtering of the information associated with the focal group is based on the information of the web page . That is either or both the information of the web page or the information presented by the overlay can be filtered and or sorted based on the other of the information of the web page and the information presented by the overlay .

As previously described one embodiment includes a plug in loaded on the user s computer that when executed supplements the user s web browsing. A more specific embodiment includes the plug in providing the user with a web browser overlay. Execution of the plug in provides the user with the web overlay that supplements web browsing by the user. More specifically one embodiment includes the web overlay providing the information associated with the at least one member that has relevance to the web browsing of the user. Other embodiments include the web overlay filtering and or sorting information of for example a web page based on the information associated with the at least one focal group member.

For proper operation the plug in has access to the focal group and to the information associated with the at least one member of the focal group. As previously described the access can be through a network connected to the user s computer and to one or more servers that maintain the members of the focal group and the information associated with each of the users of the focal group.

As previously described an embodiment for supplementing the web browsing includes an overlay. Based on information of for example web page being browsed by the user an embodiment includes the overlay providing at least some of the information of the at least one member of the focal group. The web browsing of the user is supplemented by providing the user with focal group intelligence. That is the information provided by the overlay enhances and improves the user s web browsing by providing the user with additional intelligence as provided by the information of each of the members of the focal group.

One embodiment includes the information provided by the overlay relating to information of a web page being browsed by the user. That is the overlay supplements the web browsing by providing additional information focal group information that is related to the information being provided by the web site. Additional information can include for example past experiences of one or more of the focal group members and or recommendations by the one or more focal group members based on the past experiences.

The overlay can additionally or alternatively use the information of the focal group to filters information of the web browsing. That is the information provided by web browsing can be filtered based on the information of the focal group. All of the information provided be a web page may not be useful and the user s web browsing can in some situations be improved by filtering the information of the web page. One method of filtering the information includes filtering it based on information of the members of the focal group.

For example a user can visit on online book store and view a page displaying a set of books. However if the user has the overlay plug in enabled the displayed set of books may be a subset of the original results of the query wherein the subset displayed is based on the filtering performed by the overlay plug in. That is for example only the books owned or reviewed by members of the Focal Group or by members having a certain affinity to the user or proficiency in the subject matter may be displayed.

The overlay can additionally or alternatively use the information of the focal group to sorts information of the web browsing based on the information of the at least one member of the focal group. That is the information of the web can be sorted based on the information of the focal group.

For example a user can visit a website that provides restaurant reviews and the user can submit a query to find a good restaurant in a particular area. Originally without the overlay the results of the query that are returned by the website for example is sorted by ratings given by random reviewers. However if the user has the overlay plug in enabled the sorting of the displayed results are further improved by strategically positioning the reviews produced by the members of the user s focal group who have high affinity or high proficiency in the subject restaurant knowledge .

The overlay can additionally or alternatively filter the information provided by the overlay based upon the information of the web page. For example if a user is visiting a photography website one embodiment includes the overlay plug in displaying information about only those members of the user s focal group that have relevance to the browsed page s in the photography website. For example a user looking at a camera review of a website views on the display only the information of those members of the focal group who have reviewed or own the camera.

An embodiment of the overlay includes highlighting at least one web page with visual identifiers. The visual identifiers are related to the information associated with the at least one member having relevance to the focal group.

For example if a user is browsing products at an online tennis gear store each product can be visually annotated by the overlay plug in with icons that reflect information from the focal group relevant to that product. Furthermore the user can be allowed to click on select an icon to submit the information about the product he she would like to be reviewed by the focal group.

it is to understood that the visual identifier include any one of many different implementations. That is for example the visual identifiers do not have to be icons. Additionally other types of iterations between the user and other focal group members can be initiated by the visual identifiers.

For another example the visual overlay depicts the affinity map of the user with the members of the focal group and highlighting those members that are relevant to the browsed page. Exemplary affinity maps are provided in B.

Another embodiment of the overlay further includes at least one of fetching or requesting the information of the at least one member of the focal group. For example a user may click on icon provided by the overlay next to a product to request a specific member of the focal group to provide an opinion or a review about the product. This embodiment is very useful because it enables rapidly growth of the information of the entire focal group network therefore making the overlay more powerful. Another embodiment allows for example a user to click select an icon allowing the user to customize a review form and send it to members of the focal group.

It is to be understood that there can be methods other than the use of an overlay for at least one of filtering sorting or appending information to information of a web page based on the information associated with the at least one member. That is an overlay as shown and described here is one method of supplementing web browsing. Other methods of supplementing web browsing based on the information of a focal group are also possible.

An embodiment includes ranking the information associated with the members of the focal group. The general reasoning being that higher ranked information can have a greater influence on how the web browsing of the user is supplemented. For example one focal group member may be identified as being a particularly good expert on the subject matter of the web page being accessed by the user. Accordingly an embodiment includes the information associated with the at least one member having relevance to the focal group being ranked by a level of importance. For one embodiment the ranking of the level of importance of information is influenced by a perceived level of importance of each of the at least one member associated with the information. Other embodiments include the perceived level of importance of each of the at least one member being influenced by at least one of a member rank on a relevant topic a level of affinity between the user and each member a level of expertise of each member a level of trust of each member a level of performance of past information provided by each member a level of proficiency of each member.

One embodiment includes the affinity between the user and each focal group member having substantial influence over the ranking assigned to each focal group member. This can include for example the level of affinity between the user and each member adaptively varying over time based on actions of each member or the user. If for example the user has elected to enable the overlay plug in access to the user s web email account then the overlay can infer changes in the affinity between focal group members based on for example how often the members send e mails to each other. The affinity levels can fluctuate over time based on increase or decrease of e mailing activity between focal group members. It is to be understood that inferences of affinity variations are not limited to e mail interactions between users. That is other types of interactions between focal group members can influence the affinity between the members as well.

Another embodiment includes executing at least one focal group application within a web browser based on information of the members of the focal group. One example of a focal group application includes executing the at least one focal group application comprises requesting additional information from the members of the focal group. That is for example the user can invite or solicit another member of the focal group to provide a review opinion about something. One embodiment additionally includes overlaying the focal group application s over a web page being viewed by the user.

One example of a focal group application allows a user to join a focal group purchasing consortium to negotiate a better price with any vendor. A vendor can be any online store as well as any focal group member. For one embodiment a vendor can join a focal group and offer group discounts to focal group members. The focal group application retrieves vendor information relevant to that product and displays it to the user browsing another web page with relevant products or information such as pricing targeted ads or sponsored focal group results .

An example of a focal group overlay application includes an overlay browser installed into a user s web browser and a focal group overlay web server. An exemplary embodiment of the focal group overlay web server includes focal network application business logic a database an application programming interface API and connection to a friend network provider. The focal network application business logic can include a layer of software code that embodies the actual logical rules related to updating and keeping current all focal group relations data and information. The layer of software code includes business logic as opposed to the other layers of the code that include common frameworks web and database infrastructure. The database provides storage for focal group contents and focal group information. The API provides communication to the overlay plug in. The connection to the friend network provides a connection to at least one of any available social networks.

The described embodiments can be illustrated by one example a user browsing a catalog of products on an online store of providing a user with a web browser supplement. Initially a user arrives at a merchandise selection webpage in an online store. An overlay plug in sends a uniform resource locator URL of the browsed page to a focal group overlay web server invoking a corresponding API call. In response the focal group overlay server sends information parsing rules that allow the overlay plug in to analyze the content of the page. The overlay plug in analyzes the web page and parses the identity information about each particular product such as product brand product title product model serial number or PLU or barcode. The overlay invokes another server API call passing the collected information to the focal group overlay web server. The focal group web server can respond for example with multiple lists for each identified product on the page.

An exemplary list can include a list of experts . That is members of the focal group sorted by highest proficiency with names photos and other information about each member including any related product reviews created by these members.

Another exemplary list includes a list of close friends . That is members of the focal group sorted by highest affinity with similar information for each member.

Another exemplary list includes a list of actions related to this product. The actions list can include a request review in which a user is able to ask one or more members of a focal group for an opinion review of this item. Other action lists can include for example a Submit review in which a user can provide his her own review an I own it in which a user can let other members of the focal know that he she owns this item a Rate it in which a user provides a thumbs up thumbs down type of quick voting button to let the user cast a rating vote about this product an Add to wish list in which a user can let other focal group members know that this is an item he she doesn t mind receiving as a gift and a Group bargain in which a user can add him herself into a group of people who want to team up for buying this item at a bulk discount.

As previously described the focal group overlay can include focal group applications. The focal group overlay can include for example an action button or icon that invokes a specialized focal group application. The plug in can render creates visual elements for for example two lists of focal group members reviews of experts reviews of friends as welt as action icons buttons that enhance the currently browsed page. The resulting page that is displayed to the user is a merge of the original product page as sent by the web server of the online store plus the elements created by the overlay plug in. The additional visual elements pictures of focal group experts friends and action buttons are displayed next to the related product items on the page. The user can click on select any friend or expert s photo or name and read the review or rating for each product. Additionally the user can click on any action icon to invoke the corresponding action. This way the user is able to use the knowledge of his her focal group to help decide on the purchase of a product. Using the action icons the user contributes to the knowledge of his focal group e.g. by providing his her own review or by requesting a review .

An embodiment of the web browser supplement allows for example third party developers to add their own focal group applications. One example of a focal group application includes a mini button or an icon displayed next to any item on the page that is recognized by the overlay as a target item i.e. around which the overlay creates some enhanced content or filtering or sorting . Additionally a set of configuration directives specifying the kinds of items products services etc. that this application are enabled for one or multiple web pages of the application that augment the existing web pages within the focal group overlay web server. The existing web pages are the web pages that the users see when they click on the mini button. These items can be uploaded by a focal group application developer to the focal group overlay web server via for example a special application registration form.

For an embodiment all focal group applications including those provided within the focal group overlay website by default use the same API to retrieve and manipulate focal net information. The focal group API provides the focal group application with access to the focal net information. The focal net information can include but not limited to social graph links affinity and proficiency information user profile information as restricted by the user s access preferences focal group affiliation user created reviews ratings and or any user related information contributed created by other focal group applications.

Another embodiment includes providing user web browsing results to other websites and mining additional information from the other websites for additionally supplementing the web browsing by the user. For example if a user is looking at a camera of brand A in an online photography store the focal group application can send relevant information to a camera maker company of brand B . The camera maker company can then send competitive pricing information on the same or comparable product. The information about camera B can then be presented to the user browsing information about camera A via overlay s enhancing the web page. As a result the user is better informed about comparable products.

As previously described the information associated with member of the focal group can be adaptively updated. For example one embodiment includes adaptively updating the information associated with the at least one member based on web browsing of the user. Another embodiment includes adaptively updating the information associated with the at least one member based on web browsing of the members. For example if a focal group member is considered an expert in tennis that is has a high focal group proficiency rating and is buying a tennis racquet in an online store the information about the purchase may be considered useful and therefore is sent to the focal group and appended to the rest of the existing focal group information.

It is to be understood that the displays of B are merely exemplary and that other displays can alternatively or additionally be used to visually display to a user the strengths of relationships between the user and other focal group members.

As previously described the overlay can be a plug in that can be loaded on a user s computing device. The overlay enables a transformation of the state of information displayed on the user s computing devices thereby supplementing the displayed information based on information of the other users of the focal group.

Although specific embodiments of the embodiments have been described and illustrated the invention is not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so described and illustrated. The invention is limited only by the appended claims.

