---

title: Quick usage control
abstract: One or more elements on a computing device can be selected and locked from use. For example, a first user (e.g., adult) of a computing device can allow a second user (e.g., child) to use the former's device; however, the first user might not want the second user to have access to all of the elements on the device, and so the first user can select which elements he/she wants to share with the second user and which elements he/she does not want to share. For example, the first user can select elements and choose to lock the selected elements, lock all other elements, lock the selected elements for a certain period of time, or lock the selected elements but allow for earned usage, etc. The lock can be removed in response to an unlock event, which can comprise a user-initiated unlock, a timed unlock, or a user-earned locked.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09268966&OS=09268966&RS=09268966
owner: A9.com, Inc.
number: 09268966
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120824
---
Computing devices are often shared between multiple users. It is common for a parent who has a computing device to let at least one child use the device. Sometimes a parent may desire to prevent the child from using certain applications or a certain portion of an application. For example the parent might have important information in his her email or banking applications such that he she does not want to give the child access to those applications. In another example the parent might let the child browse an Internet electronic market but might not want the child to buy anything. In a further example the parent might want the child to only use educational and productive applications but not play any games in other words the parent wants to allow the child to use only a few applications e.g. educational productive but not others e.g. games . In a further example the computing device can be shared between two or more friends or mere acquaintances. However conventional approaches typically need for each user of a computing device to sign up for a profile account so that usage controls parental controls etc. can be managed. Moreover each time a user wants to use another user s device the former has to sign in again. This can be cumbersome slow and inefficient. Accordingly there needs to be an improved approach to sharing devices and controlling permissions.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure overcome one or more of the above referenced and other deficiencies in conventional approaches to computing usage control. In particular various embodiments can provide for quick control of computing usage such as which applications or content are accessible in a current state on a computing device.

At least some embodiments enable a user to apply usage control settings by applying a specified input to an element associated with an application on a computing device. An element can comprise at least a portion of an application such as a button or component within the application an interface or a portion of the interface for the application an operation performable e.g. capable of being performed by the application e.g. a functionality of the application or the entire application. Some elements e.g. applications portions of an application operations functionalities of an application etc. can promote education and or productivity while others provide entertainment. Elements can be used to perform a wide variety of tasks.

In some embodiments one or more elements can be installed running or otherwise residing on the computing device. In an example a first user e.g. an adult parent of the computing device is about to give access of his her computing device to a second user e.g. a child . However the first user remembers that he she has some personal emails text messages or other private information that he she does not want the second user to see. It may be cumbersome time consuming and inconvenient to try to set up a profile account for the second user and then configure the profile settings for the second user to exclude the elements personal to the first user. As such a quick way to lock up the elements would be very helpful.

In some embodiments the first user can select the one or more elements e.g. applications portions of an application operations of an application etc. that he she does not want to share with the second user. For example the first user can tap press and hold the elements or draw a selection box incorporating the elements in order to select them which can bring about options for the first user to choose. Various options can be presented to the first user in response to the selecting of the one or more elements. The various options can include but is not limited to options to lock the selection of elements e.g. lock the applications or the portions of applications associated with the selected elements lock all elements other than the selected elements lock the selection for a certain duration of time lock everything other than the selection for a certain duration of time lock the selection but allow for earned usage lock everything other than the selection but allow for earned usage lock the selection for a certain duration of time but allow for earned usage lock everything other than the selection for a certain duration of time but allow for earned usage etc. When the first user chooses one of the above example options the selected elements i.e. the applications associated with the selected elements become locked e.g. are put into a locked state .

Continuing with the above example if the first user then gives his her device to the second user the second user will not be able to access those selected and locked elements i.e. applications associated with the elements . Nonetheless the second user can still use any element that is not locked. As such the first user can still offer the device for the second user to use without sacrificing privacy or too much time.

The selected elements can be unlocked e.g. removed from a locked state in response to an unlock event. In some embodiments an unlock event can comprise an unlock initiated by the first user an automatic timed unlock or an unlock earned by the second user. In some embodiments the user can initiate the unlock by entering a passcode passing a facial recognition test and or a biometric authentication. In some embodiments the locked elements are unlocked automatically when a specified duration of time has passed. In some embodiments the locked elements are unlocked when the second user has earned usage privileges. For example if the first user locked a gaming app but setup the device such that the second user can earn an unlock by using a homework app for a specified amount of time then when the second user has used the homework app for the specified amount of time the gaming app will unlock e.g. for a certain during of time .

As shown in there can also be one or more users e.g. etc. of the computing device . For example the one or more users can include at least two users e.g. and . The first user can be for example a primary user of the device who may wish to let the second user use the device as well. However perhaps the first user has an email application a text messaging application and or other elements applications that the first user does not want the second user to use or access. For example the first user is about to hand over the device to the second user but remembers that he she does not want to share certain elements with the second user e.g. does not want to give access of certain elements to the second user . As such it would be useful for the first user to quickly lock those applications elements before letting the second user use the computing device .

For example the one or more users can include an adult parent and a child. The adult parent user can allow his her child to use certain applications e.g. element on the device . For example the parent user may wish to allow the child user to only use educational applications and prevent the child from playing with gaming applications or playing with the gaming applications too much . In some embodiments the parent user can allow the child user to use certain applications for only a limited amount of time after which the applications will become locked. For example the parent user can configure the device such that the child user can only play a gaming application for 30 minutes. In some embodiments the parent user can configure the device such that the child user can only earn the privilege to use certain applications e.g. gaming applications in response to using other applications e.g. educational applications . For example the parent can configure the device such that the child can only play a gaming application e.g. for a limited amount of time in response to using a homework application for a specified amount of time. In some embodiments the limited time usage and earned usage can work in combination. For example the device can be configured such that if the child has already used up the limited time for using a particular application and the application becomes locked the child can earn more time to use the application e.g. unlocking the application for a certain amount of time depending upon how much time the child earned such as by using another application for a specified amount of time.

In another example the device can be shared by multiple users each of whom can have one or more applications that he she does not want to share with the rest of the users. Accordingly each user can lock his her respective application s to prevent other users from using those applications. In some embodiments this lock can be for an indefinite duration and can be opened only by the appropriate user e.g. the user who placed the lock .

In a further example a user can wish to lock himself herself from certain applications. For example if a user knows that he she needs to focus on a homework application but also knows that he she is easily distracted he she can lock gaming and entertainment applications to force him her to focus on the homework application. In some embodiments the user can set a timed lock such that the gaming and entertainment applications are locked for a certain amount of time e.g. 45 minutes from now until 9 00 PM etc. wherein the lock cannot be readily easily removed by the user e.g. by entering a passcode before the amount of time has passed. In some embodiments the user can set the device to unlock the gaming and entertainment applications only after the user has spent a specified amount of time using the homework application.

As illustrated in the one or more elements can be associated with a plurality of applications presented as icons on the display screen of the example computing device embodiment . In some embodiments a user e.g. the first user can tap to select one or more elements e.g. applications icons etc. . For example the user can tap icons and . The user can be presented with various options such as an option to lock the applications associated with the selected elements or an option to lock applications associated with all other elements other than the selected elements. In the user has chosen for example to lock all other elements but to leave the selected elements e.g. and unlocked.

In some embodiments one or more elements within the selection box can be deemed as being selected by the user when the user draws the selection box to incorporate the one or more elements . In response to the selection the user can be presented with various options with regard to usage permissions relating to the one or more elements within the selection box .

As shown in the user can draw a selection box around one or more elements to select them. For example the user can select an area which incorporates the Buy Now button element and the Add to Cart button element and choose to lock the two elements. When the elements and are locked i.e. in a locked state they cannot be used. Continuing with the example the user can be a parent who wants to let his her child use the device including the shopping application but does not want the child to buy anything or add anything to a shopping cart in the shopping application.

In some embodiments one or more elements e.g. applications portions of the application such as the product image and or product information can be locked e.g. put in a locked state by censoring the images and or text related to the product image information. For example if the user draws a selection box around the product image and the product description details and chooses to lock the selection then the images and text relating to those elements will be censored e.g. blacked out made not to be fully clearly visible etc. .

In some embodiments the user can select e.g. by tapping pressing the dot representing a particular page to bring up locking options regarding the page. For example the user can tap and hold the dot representing the current page being displayed in . Options can be presented to the user and the user can choose to lock the current page e.g. put the current page into a locked state . In some embodiments the options presented in response to selecting the current page can include options to lock one or more pages other than the current page. In some embodiments when a page is in a locked state there can be an indicator to indicate that the page is locked. As illustrated in the example of the current page is the fourth page and the locked pages are the first fourth current and fifth pages.

In some embodiments a menu such as a pull down menu or a scroll menu can be utilized to present to the user the various options e.g. Option A Option B Option C Option D Option E etc. . With regard to the example scroll menu the user can scroll through the options until the option he she wants to choose is in the selected slot . Moreover it is fully contemplated that there are numerous others ways to present the various options for the user to choose.

In some embodiments the various options can include but is not limited to options to lock the selection e.g. applications portions of applications etc. lock everything other than the selection lock the selection for a certain duration of time lock everything other than the selection for a certain duration of time lock the selection but allow for earned usage lock everything other than the selection but allow for earned usage lock the selection for a certain duration of time but allow for earned usage lock everything other than the selection for a certain duration of time but allow for earned usage etc.

In some embodiments the at least one camera on the example device can include a front facing camera. In some embodiments the at least one camera e.g. the front facing camera can be utilized to trigger a unlock event. For example the camera can be utilized for facial recognition of the user attempting to trigger the unlock event. In some embodiments during a configuration process e.g. initial setup process the camera can capture an image of the user s face which can be deemed as being correct and can be utilized for subsequent facial comparison and recognition authentication.

In some embodiments an unlock event can involve at least one of a passcode entry facial recognition fingerprint recognition e.g. utilizing a fingerprint scanner on the device voice recognition e.g. utilizing a microphone on the device retina recognition e.g. utilizing a retina scanner on the device other biometric authentications or any combination of the preceding etc. For example the unlock event can correspond to a successful passcode entry a successful biometric authentication etc.

At step the application associated with the at least one selected element can be placed in a locked state to prevent at least a second user of the computing device from using the application associated with the at least one selected element. For example the first user is allowing the second user to use the first user s device but the first user does not want to share every element capability with the second user. Nonetheless at step the second user can still be allowed to use one or more other applications associated with one or more other elements on the computing device wherein the one or more other elements are different from the at least one selected element in the locked state.

Then at step the application associated with the at least one selected element can be removed from the locked state in response to an unlock event. In some embodiments the unlock event can include at least one of an unlock initiated by the first user an automatic timed unlock or an unlock earned by the second user by performing one or more specified tasks using the one or more other applications associated with the one or more other elements on the computing device.

Regarding user earned usage in some embodiments the computing device can check whether a user is actively using a specified application to earn usage privileges or merely running the application idly e.g. just having the application open such that just running the application idly does not contribute to earning usage privileges. In some embodiments the type of the application can be determined to check whether the application is being run idly. For example for an electronic book i.e. e book reading application there should be an expected amount of idle time e.g. during which the user is presumably reading the page between page turns. In some embodiments the number of words on the page can also be counted and the time between page turns determined in order to estimate a reasonable amount of time spent on a page e.g. spending 10 minutes on a 500 word page might be reasonable but spending two hours is not . In another example for a word processing application 20 minutes of idle time might be reasonable e.g. during which the user is presumed to be organizing his her thoughts but an hour without typing a key might not be reasonable and thus the extra time e.g. one hour minus 20 minutes equals 40 minutes can be made not to contribute to earning usage privileges.

In some embodiments the lock settings permissions can also be synced across multiple computing devices. For example if a user has multiple devices and one or more elements are present on the multiple devices then when the user selects an element to be placed into a locked state each instance of the same element on the user s multiple devices can also be placed into a locked state. In some embodiments if a first user has one or more of his her element installed running on a second user s device the first user can remotely lock his her elements present on the second user s device.

In some embodiments there can be lock permissions settings or a parent control center on the computing device for managing various aspects of locks and permissions e.g. saved settings saved passcodes etc. . In some embodiments for example once a parent hands the device over to a child the device can attempt to capture an image of the child s face and use facial recognition of the child s face to apply any saved locked settings for the child the settings or parental control center can store and provide access to the child s picture s to be used for facial recognition. In another example the settings or parental control center can be used to manage the identification numbers unique to each application.

In some embodiments an element can be locked utilizing a rating system. For example if a first user e.g. parent locks a video movie playing application element and chooses to set a rating filter then only videos and or movies that are rated G can be played by a second user e.g. child while the video movie application is in the locked state. Similar approaches can be implemented for gaming media and other applications.

In some embodiments an element such as a mobile banking application can be locked by a first user such that a second user will not be able to view and or access a locked bank account of the first user. For example if a parent has an individual account as well as a joint account with his her child then the parent can lock the device such that the child can only use the banking application to view access the joint account. In some embodiments application programming interfaces can be provided to app developers to implement capabilities such as this and others.

In some embodiments an element such as a shopping application can be locked with respect to the maximum amount of money that can be spent in an electronic marketplace. For example a first user can lock the amount of spending in the shopping application element such that a second user can only spend up to that amount e.g. maximum 50 credit at Amazon.com etc. . In another example the first user can lock his her own maximum spending for a certain duration of time e.g. until the end of the month when his her paycheck arrives .

In some embodiments gesture initiated lock settings can be implemented. For example the first user can utilize a touch sensor e.g. touch screen on the device to draw a J letter with his her finger to initiate lock settings for Jimmy e.g. a second user in response to the J being drawn on the touch sensor the computing device can retrieve any saved lock settings for Jimmy and apply the lock settings for Jimmy. Similarly in some embodiments voice initiated lock settings can also be implemented. For example if the first user says Set lock for Jimmy then the device can retrieved any saved lock settings for Jimmy and apply the lock settings for Jimmy.

Various embodiments consistent with the present disclosure can also be implemented for usage notifications. In some embodiments the computing device can provide usage data of the application s used. For example after a parent user hands the computing device over to the child user the computing device can track which applications are being used by the child user when those applications are being used and or how much time the child user is spending on them. Accordingly a parent user can monitor how the child user is using the device. In an example the parent user can receive a notification on his her smartphone that the child user is using the parent user s table computing device to surf the Web on an unsecure network as such the notification can allow the parent user to make sure that the child does not share personal information e.g. contact information pictures etc. or download harmful files e.g. malware viruses etc. .

The example computing device also includes at least one microphone or other audio capture device capable of capturing audio data such as words or commands spoken by a user of the device. In this example a microphone is placed on the same side of the device as the display screen such that the microphone will typically be better able to capture words spoken by a user of the device. In at least some embodiments a microphone can be a directional microphone that captures sound information from substantially directly in front of the microphone and picks up only a limited amount of sound from other directions. It should be understood that a microphone might be located on any appropriate surface of any region face or edge of the device in different embodiments and that multiple microphones can be used for audio recording and filtering purposes etc.

The example computing device also includes at least one orientation sensor such as a position and or movement determining element. Such a sensor can include for example an accelerometer or gyroscope operable to detect an orientation and or change in orientation of the computing device as well as small movements of the device. An orientation sensor also can include an electronic or digital compass which can indicate a direction e.g. north or south in which the device is determined to be pointing e.g. with respect to a primary axis or other such aspect . An orientation sensor also can include or comprise a global positioning system GPS or similar positioning element operable to determine relative coordinates for a position of the computing device as well as information about relatively large movements of the device. Various embodiments can include one or more such elements in any appropriate combination. As should be understood the algorithms or mechanisms used for determining relative position orientation and or movement can depend at least in part upon the selection of elements available to the device.

In some embodiments the computing device of can include one or more communication elements not shown such as a Wi Fi Bluetooth RF wired or wireless communication system. The device in many embodiments can communicate with a network such as the Internet and may be able to communicate with other such devices. In some embodiments the device can include at least one additional input device able to receive conventional input from a user. This conventional input can include for example a push button touch pad touch screen wheel joystick keyboard mouse keypad or any other such device or element whereby a user can input a command to the device. In some embodiments however such a device might not include any buttons at all and might be controlled only through a combination of visual and audio commands such that a user can control the device without having to be in contact with the device.

The device also can include at least one orientation or motion sensor . As discussed such a sensor can include an accelerometer or gyroscope operable to detect an orientation and or change in orientation or an electronic or digital compass which can indicate a direction in which the device is determined to be facing. The mechanism s also or alternatively can include or comprise a global positioning system GPS or similar positioning element operable to determine relative coordinates for a position of the computing device as well as information about relatively large movements of the device. The device can include other elements as well such as may enable location determinations through triangulation or another such approach. These mechanisms can communicate with the processor whereby the device can perform any of a number of actions described or suggested herein.

As an example a computing device such as that described with respect to can capture and or track various information for a user over time. This information can include any appropriate information such as location actions e.g. sending a message or creating a document user behavior e.g. how often a user performs a task the amount of time a user spends on a task the ways in which a user navigates through an interface etc. user preferences e.g. how a user likes to receive information open applications submitted requests received calls and the like. As discussed above the information can be stored in such a way that the information is linked or otherwise associated whereby a user can access the information using any appropriate dimension or group of dimensions.

As discussed different approaches can be implemented in various environments in accordance with the described embodiments. For example illustrates an example of an environment for implementing aspects in accordance with various embodiments. As will be appreciated although a Web based environment is used for purposes of explanation different environments may be used as appropriate to implement various embodiments. The system includes an electronic client device which can include any appropriate device operable to send and receive requests messages or information over an appropriate network and convey information back to a user of the device. Examples of such client devices include personal computers cell phones handheld messaging devices laptop computers set top boxes personal data assistants electronic book readers and the like. The network can include any appropriate network including an intranet the Internet a cellular network a local area network or any other such network or combination thereof. Components used for such a system can depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. Protocols and components for communicating via such a network are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail. Communication over the network can be enabled via wired or wireless connections and combinations thereof. In this example the network includes the Internet as the environment includes a Web server for receiving requests and serving content in response thereto although for other networks an alternative device serving a similar purpose could be used as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device and handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server . It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log or session data . It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as page image information and access rights information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of element. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about elements of that type. The information can then be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular element of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

As discussed above the various embodiments can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Various aspects also can be implemented as part of at least one service or Web service such as may be part of a service oriented architecture. Services such as Web services can communicate using any appropriate type of messaging such as by using messages in extensible markup language XML format and exchanged using an appropriate protocol such as SOAP derived from the Simple Object Access Protocol . Processes provided or executed by such services can be written in any appropriate language such as the Web Services Description Language WSDL . Using a language such as WSDL allows for functionality such as the automated generation of client side code in various SOAP frameworks.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

