---

title: Frame tracer web browser component
abstract: An internet browser software component facilitates online submission of prescription eyeglass orders by receiving frame trace data sent to a computer by a frame tracer and embedding it in an order form prepared for submission over the internet. The browser software component may interpret data sent to any peripheral port on the computer, including serial (COM) ports, Universal Serial Bus (USB) ports, and Ethernet ports. The browser software component embeds the frame trace so that it is sent in the same logical packet as the rest of the prescription order. The browser software component may also create a graphical representation of the frame trace and display it in a graphical user interface containing the order form so that the prescription order may be easily reviewed for accuracy before submitting it to be processed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738400&OS=08738400&RS=08738400
owner: Optivision, Inc.
number: 08738400
owner_city: Phoenix
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120611
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 069 677 filed Feb. 12 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 200 502 and entitled Frame Tracer Web Browser Component which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Appl. No. 60 889 898 filed Feb. 14 2007 and entitled Frame Tracer Browser Component each of the foregoing applications being hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention relates to systems and methods for ordering prescription eyeglasses. This invention relates particularly to the software and method for ordering prescription eyeglasses over the internet by using an internet browser based component to connect lab equipment such as a frame tracer to a web based prescription lens order.

Frame tracers are computerized devices that measure the parameters of an eyeglass frame. Because each eyeglass frame can be unique in minute detail the frame data measured from a frame tracer is critical to create exact results when manufacturing a pair of eyeglasses. A typical frame tracer will measure from 100 to as many as 1500 or more data points that describe the lens area of the frame and many measure the right and left eyes independently. Additionally the frame tracer measures other values including the curve of the frame and the distance between the right and left lenses. In this specification the collection of measurements taken by a frame tracer of a single frame is referred to as a frame trace.

Conventionally two separate sets of data are required to make prescription eyewear the frame trace and the prescription. The prescription contains at least a patient s vision correction needs and may also contain his name or other identifier date of prescription lens material or other information. As used herein the prescription includes all data required to make prescription eyewear excluding the frame trace. In the conventional preparation of prescription eyewear the eye care professional such as an optometrist ophthalmologist optician or an employee of one generates the prescription order which is then transmitted to the lens manufacturing laboratory. The eye care professional also sends the frame to the laboratory either separately or with the prescription order. The laboratory associates the frame with the proper prescription order measures the frame trace and produce lenses to fit. The laboratory production process traditionally takes about seven days mostly due to wait times for frame delivery and the order association procedure.

More eyecare professionals are using frame tracers at their business locations instead of sending the frame to the lens manufacturer. It is therefore increasingly desirable to store the frame trace on an office computer in order to submit the data to a laboratory for creation of the lenses. However the volume and type of data contained in one frame trace makes it prohibitive to manually process the data by retyping or reentering the data into a computerized order. To solve this problem certain frame tracers can be connected to the office computer so that the frame trace can be transferred to the computer and stored on it. Unfortunately however due to format incompatibilities this leaves the problem of storing the frame trace and prescription data in separate files. If transmitted to the lens maker two files have to be transmitted or appended together similar to the conventional order association procedure. It would be desirable to integrate the frame trace with the prescription order.

The transmission of the frame trace to the office computer however does facilitate online ordering. An eye care professional enters the prescription order data into an internet based form associates the frame trace file to the form and transmits the order either directly to the order recipient namely the lens manufacturing laboratory s computer system or to a third party value added service provider such as VisionWeb www.visionweb.com and Eyefinity www.eyefinity.com. See which shows a prior art example of importing a frame trace file so that the frame trace data are associated with the prescription order. Benefits to the eyecare professional include faster processing of the order because it is entered one time and the frame does not need to be delivered before processing and because error checking and correcting are done at the time the order is entered. This can reduce the processing time to one or two days.

However this system of online ordering is cumbersome it requires a standalone program to receive the frame trace from the frame tracer both the eyecare professional and the laboratory must manually match frame trace files to prescription orders and an extensive file naming convention must be developed in order to maintain the proper association of frame traces to prescription orders. It would be advantageous to facilitate more direct communication between an internet browser and the frame tracer so that frame trace information can be inserted directly into an online order.

Unfortunately due to a design philosophy regarding security an internet browser does not inherently access all resources of the office computer such as devices that are peripherally connected to the computer via the computer s serial ports COM ports . Frame tracers typically use the serial ports to connect to the host computer program. Because an internet browser does not access the serial ports directly the internet browser cannot communicate with a frame tracer. It would be desirable to effectively connect the browser to the serial ports and thereby receive a frame trace.

Therefore it is an object of this invention to provide a method for ordering prescription eyeglasses via the internet. It is a further object to provide an Internet browser software component that can communicate with a frame tracer connected to a computer and receive frame traces from the frame tracer. Another object of this invention is to provide an eyeglass ordering system that utilizes the internet browser software component.

The present invention increases the efficiency of the prescription eyeglass ordering process by allowing an eyecare professional to attach lab equipment such as a frame tracer to the eyecare professional s computer by any means including a serial COM port cable and to receive frame traces generated by the frame tracer directly into an order form for submission in an internet browser application. In this manner the parts of a prescription eyeglass order are seamlessly integrated and are transmitted to the order recipient simultaneously.

Referring to an exemplary eyeglass ordering system generates a complete prescription eyeglass order that can be sent to a lens manufacturing laboratory or a third party value added service provider. The eyecare professional inserts a pair of eyeglass frames into the frame tracer and activates it. The frame tracer creates a frame trace and transmits it to the host computer through the connection at serial port . The browser software component receives the frame trace from the serial port and translates it into perceivable data represented by the frame trace display . The browser software component then embeds the frame trace display in a graphical user interface GUI which is perceivable in the internet browser window . The eyecare professional then reviews the prescription eyeglass order displayed in the GUI for accuracy and transmits the prescription eyeglass order via internet to a lens manufacturing laboratory or a third party value added service provider.

The eyeglass ordering system may have components that are located proximate to or remote from each other. In the preferred embodiment the components of the eyeglass ordering system are located in the office of an eyecare professional allowing the eyecare professional to exert full control over generation of the order. A frame tracer connects to a host computer at an available peripheral port such as a serial port . The frame tracer can be any commercially available frame tracer such as the LT 900 Remote Tracer by Santinelli or the Optronics 4T Frame Tracer. The host computer can be any personal computer or other computing system which comprises components capable of establishing an internet connection implementing an internet browser program and connecting to the frame tracer . In the preferred embodiment the host computer is a personal computing system that includes a monitor an internet connection and at least one serial port.

The connection between the frame tracer and the host computer can be made by any means for connecting peripheral components to a personal computer including Universal Serial Bus USB serial COM port connections ethernet or other network connections or intermediate connectors such as a wired or wireless TWAIN server. In the preferred embodiment the host computer includes a serial port and the frame tracer connects to the serial port with a serial cable . This connection allows the frame tracer to transmit frame traces to the host computer for processing.

Referring to the browser software component comprises computer program code devices that allow the browser software component to communicate with the frame tracer and transfer data to the internet browser and subsequently to the GUI . In the preferred embodiment the browser software component accesses a frame trace that has been provided by the frame tracer to the serial port translates the information into a format that can be perceived when displayed in the GUI and transmits the frame trace to the GUI displayed within the internet browser window . The GUI then generates the frame trace display . As seen in the frame trace display is a graphical representation of the shape of the frame. Preferably the data from the frame tracer or other lab equipment is normalized so that the data from all lab equipment are produced in the same format. The frame trace is thereby incorporated into the eyeglass prescription order and can be reviewed by the eyecare professional before order submission.

The browser software component transfers the frame trace to the GUI displayed within the internet browser window using a communication method that allows browser hosted plug ins or components to communicate with the web browser such as Java JavaScript LiveConnect or any similar communication method. In the preferred embodiment the browser software component utilizes LiveConnect to transfer the frame trace. The GUI contains a form which is implemented using an internet application programming language such as hypertext markup language HTML hypertext preprocessor PHP Java JavaScript or Perl. When the frame trace arrives at the GUI the browser software component embeds it in the form and creates a frame trace display that can be perceived by the eyecare professional. The browser software component is designed to overcome the limitations of internet browsers and other browser software components that cannot communicate with peripheral connections. The browser software component can be created using any now known or later developed software component design technology that can communicate with peripheral connections including Microsoft ActiveX or other Component Object Model designers Microsoft .NET Apple Dashboard and NPAPI Netscape Plug in Application Programming Interface . In the preferred embodiment the browser software component is an ActiveX control. The browser software component embeds the frame trace data in the GUI so that the frame trace data is enclosed within the same data packet as the rest of the prescription order data when the order is submitted.

The host computer contains software necessary to display an internet browser window at a user s request. The internet browser called by the user may be any computer program capable of interpreting one or more file transfer protocols now known such as HTTP HTTPS or FTP or later developed for example the internet browser may be Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Netscape Apple s Safari or Opera. In the preferred embodiment the internet browser window is generated by Microsoft Internet Explorer. Referring to the internet browser window displays the GUI which includes a form into which the eyecare professional enters data for a prescription order. Additionally the GUI includes the frame trace display created by the browser software component using the frame trace provided by the frame tracer . When all data has been entered and the frame trace is successfully transmitted to the GUI the eyeglass order can be reviewed prior to submission. The order comprising the entered data and the frame trace is then sent as a single logical packet via the internet to a lens manufacturing laboratory or a third party value added service provider.

While there has been illustrated and described what is at present considered to be the preferred embodiment of the present invention it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the true scope of the invention. Therefore it is intended that this invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

