---

title: Multifunction positioning lock washer
abstract: A gas turbine engine section comprises a rotatable shaft, first and second axially adjacent components, a nut, and a multifunction positioning lock washer. The first and second axially adjacent components are located on the rotatable shaft and are separated by an axial separation distance. The nut is configured to thread onto the rotatable shaft to hold one of the first and second axially adjacent components in compression. The multifunction positioning lock washer has antirotation geometry configured to prevent the nut from tightening or loosening. The axial length of the multifunction positioning lock washer is adjusted by removing material based on measurement of the axial separation distance to take in tolerances and reduce the axial separation distance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09212556&OS=09212556&RS=09212556
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 09212556
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120821
---
This invention was made with government support under contract number W911W6 08 2 0001 awarded by the Army Advanced Technology Directorate. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates generally to gas turbine engines and more particularly to radial and axial retention and spacing in gas turbine engines.

Gas turbine engines comprise at least one spool comprising a compressor and a turbine on a shared shaft. Many modern gas turbine engines comprise two three or more spools on concentric shafts configured to rotate at different speeds. Both compressors and turbines comprise one or more stages of alternating stationary vanes and rotating blades. The rotation of compressor blades relative to stationary vanes compresses inlet air. The resulting high pressure gas is mixed with fuel and ignited at a combustor. The resulting high temperature high pressure airflow rotates turbine rotors which in turn drive the compressor via the shared shaft.

Gas turbine engines exist in a variety of configurations. Turbojet engines operate substantially as described above. Turboshaft engines drive rotary loads such as propeller blades via a power turbine typically situated on a separate spool. Turbofan engines are high bypass systems with large diameter inlet fans on a low pressure shaft typically shared with a low pressure compressor and a low pressure turbine. Turbojet turbofan and turboshaft engines may all comprise multiple spools e.g. a two spool system with high and low pressure shafts turbines and compressors or a three spool system with high intermediate and low pressure shafts turbines and compressors .

Gas turbine engine components are assembled as an axial stack including both stationary and rotating components. These components are constructed with tolerances to allow for variations arising from part manufacture and assembly. Axial tolerances may be taken in by positioning adjacent axial components with spacers machined to locate rotatinghardware at an optimum location relative to static structure. Positioning spacers are commonly situated between rotating shafts and bearing assemblies of adjacent supporting stationary structures.

Axial loads in gas turbine engines are commonly secured in tension by means of threaded nuts and tie bolts or shafts that cap a portion of an axial stack. To prevent nuts from tightening or loosening some gas turbine engines use lock washers with crenellations or other antirotating structures. Tie shaft nuts and lock washers contribute weight stack length and cost to the gas turbine engine. A lightweight highly axially compact gas turbine engine is desirable for many vehicular applications.

The present invention is directed toward a gas turbine engine section comprising a rotatable shaft first and second axially adjacent components a nut and a multifunction positioning lock washer. The first and second axially adjacent components are located on the rotatable shaft and are separated by an axial separation distance. The nut is configured to thread onto the rotatable shaft to hold one of the first and second axially adjacent components in compression. The multifunction positioning lock washer has antirotation geometry configured to prevent the nut from tightening or loosening. The axial length of the multifunction positioning lock washer is adjusted by removing material based on measurement of the axial separation distance to take in tolerances and reduce the axial separation distance

Combustor receives compressed gas from HPC injects fuel into this compressed gas at a metered rate and ignites the resulting fuel gas mixture. The resulting high pressure high temperature airflow drives HPT LPT and PT each of which comprises at least one stage of alternating stationary vanes and rotating blades. HPT drives HPC via HPS while LPT drives LPC via LPS . In turbofan embodiments of gas turbine engine LPC may also drive a fan. PT provides torque to drivetrain connection which may for instance be a geared or direct drivetrain of a helicopter blade a generator or similar rotary device. LPS and HPS are coaxial cylindrical shafts. In some embodiments of the present invention PT may power drivetrain connection via a shaft not shown coaxial with LPS and HPS .

During operation of gas turbine engine rotating components on low spool including LPC LPT and LPS rotate together at a common LPS speed. Rotating components on high spool including HPC HPT and HPS rotate together at a common HPS speed greater than the LPS speed. Rotating components of power spool including PT and drivetrain connection rotate at yet a third speed typically lower than the LPS speed. High spool may additionally comprise gearbox connection on HPS . Gearbox connection is torque splitter configured to power an auxiliary gearbox for peripheral systems from rotation of HPT and HPS .

As noted above gas turbine engine comprises a plurality of rotating and stationary components. These components are secured and positioned axially via nuts and spacers as described in further detail below so as to take in tolerances to minimize the overall size and weight of gas turbine engine .

Casing is a rigid nonrotating structure that directly retains and supports inlet vanes and LPC vanes and and indirectly retains and supports LPS and LPC rotors and on rotor stack via bearings . LPS is a substantially cylindrical shaft that carries rotor stack including rotor disks of LPC rotors and . Rotor stack is an axial stack of rotor components including LPC rotors and positioned relative to shoulder of LPS . Rotor stack is axially retained by nut a threaded tie or spanner nut that screws into place on a threaded portion of LPS adjacent shoulder . Shoulder is a radial step in LPS that locates and axially retains multifunction positioning lock washer as described in greater detail below. Bearings comprise a support bearing arrangement such as a series of roller or ball bearings riding inner bearing trace and outer bearing trace . Bearings carry radial and axial load from HPS to casing . Non rotating structures of LPC such as LPC vanes and may interface with rotating components of rotor stack via any of a variety of appropriate seal types to minimize undesirable gas bleed such as oil seals and knife edge seals .

LPC rotors and comprise substantially cylindrical disks with a plurality of angularly spaced apart airfoil blades. Blades of LPC rotors and are separated from radially adjacent walls of casing and from axially adjacent LPC stators and by narrow air gaps. In particular LPC rotor is separated from LPC stator by an air gap separation distance S. More generally separation distance S defines a distance between rotating and nonrotating components of LPC . Separation distance S may initially vary depending on assembly and machining tolerances before tolerances are taken in by machining multifunction positioning lock washer to an appropriate axial length. Multifunction positioning lock washer acts as a spacer that sets the distance between shoulder and inner bearing race thereby determining separation distance S. Multifunction positioning lock washer can be machined to an appropriate axial length by abrading or cutting away excess axial material to achieve a desired separation distance S. Multifunction positioning lock washer additionally includes antirotation features as described below with respect to and accordingly acts as a lock washer to prevent nut from rotating and thereby tightening or loosening.

Gas enters LPC at inlet I through inlet vanes and is compressed as it travels in flow direction F through LPC by rotation of LPC rotors and relative to LPC stators and . Multifunction positioning lock washer can be machined to minimize separation distance S and thereby reduce undesired gas bleed while simultaneously antirotating nut to keep rotor stack in compression. Although depicts a section of gas turbine engine near inlet I and LPC analogous embodiments of multifunction positioning lock washer may be used in other locations of gas turbine engine including to position and retain components of HPC HPT LPT and PT .

Assembly of the depicted region of gas turbine engine comprises several steps. First rotor stack is locked in place with nut and bearings inner bearing race outer bearing race and multifunction positioning lock washer are installed. Separation distance S is then measured and multifunction positioning lock washer is removed and machined to achieve a desired axial length to take in tolerances of separation distance S. Newly machined multifunction positioning lock washer is then replaced between LPS and nut to secure nut against tightening or loosening rotation. Multifunction positioning lock washer acts as both a lock washer and a spacer setting separation distance S.

As shown in inner bearing race multifunction positioning lock washer nut and rotor stack all ride LPS . Bearings provide axial and radial support for LPS via inner bearing race while LPS carries multifunction positioning lock washer nut and rotor stack . Nut screws into place on LPS to hold rotor stack in compression. Multifunction positioning lock washer slides between nut and LPS to antirotate nut and space inner bearing race from shoulder . As discussed above multifunction positioning lock washer can be machined to a desired axial length to set separation distance S see .

As shown in and nut features lock washer interface geometry . Lock washer interface geometry complements and interfaces with nut antirotation geometry of multifunction positioning lock washer to lock nut against rotation when multifunction positioning lock washer is installed between nut and LPS . In the depicted embodiment lock washer interface geometry comprises a series of axially forward extending tabs that slot between crenellations comprising nut antirotation geometry . In alternative embodiments nut and multifunction positioning lock washer may have any complementary geometries which prevent nut from rotating relative to multifunction positioning lock washer . In one alternative embodiment for instance lock washer interface geometry may comprise a polygonal inner surface of nut that mates with a polygonal nut antirotation geometry of multifunction positioning lock washer . In another alternative embodiment lock washer interface geometry may comprise a series of grooves or flanges which antirotate with corresponding tabs or flanges comprising nut antirotation geometry of multifunction positioning lock washer . As discussed above with respect to washer antirotation geometry may similarly take any form appropriate to antirotate multifunction positioning lock washer relative to LPS .

In all of its embodiments multifunction positioning lock washer secures a stack compression nut against tightening or loosening rotation and takes in tolerances to reduce unwanted air gaps between adjacent rotating and non rotating components of gas turbine engine . Multifunction positioning lock washer thus replaces separate lock washers for nut antirotation and spacers for taking in tolerances in separation distance S used in conventional systems thereby minimizing overall axial stack distance and reducing overall part numbers engine complexity and cost.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

