---

title: Carrier aggregation of carriers with subframe restrictions
abstract: Embodiments contemplate enabling relay node uplink control information transmission on an interface between a relay node and a donor eNodeB (DeNB) in one or more subframes. Embodiments contemplate techniques to avoid restrictions on uplink transmissions on a cell (perhaps due to subframe configuration), such as on a primary cell, where the restrictions may make relay node uplink control information transmission difficult (if not impossible) on the interface between a relay node and a donor eNodeB (DeNB). Embodiments also contemplate that resources on the interface between the relay node and the donor eNodeB may be scheduled across one or more component carriers or serving cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09125188&OS=09125188&RS=09125188
owner: InterDigital Patent Holdings, Inc.
number: 09125188
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120427
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 480806 titled CARRIER AGGREGRATION FOR RELAY NETWORKS filed on Apr. 29 2011 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 556116 titled CARRIER AGGREGATION OF CARRIERS WITH SUBFRAME RESTRICTIONS filed on Nov. 4 2011 the contents of both applications hereby incorporated by reference herein in their respective entirety for all purposes.

Relay nodes in communication systems may be useful in handling capacity issues such as cell edge performance. Communication system relaying functions may include repeater like functionality and also demodulating decoding and error correction functionality. By performing such functions in an intermediate role a relay node may facilitate communication between a wireless transmit receive device WTRU or a user equipment UE and a base station potentially with a reduced signal to noise ratio.

Long Term Evolution LTE capable communication systems may support data rates up to 100 Mbps in the downlink and 50 Mbps in the uplink for example. Improvements in downlink rates may be accomplished with carrier aggregation among other techniques. Carrier aggregation may support for example flexible bandwidth assignments up to 100 MHz. Carriers may be known as component carriers in some LTE systems. For example a single contiguous downlink DL 40 MHz aggregation of multiple component carriers may be paired with a single 15 MHz uplink UL carrier.

The Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments contemplate devices and techniques that may enable relay node uplink control information transmission on an interface between a relay node and a donor eNodeB in a subframe where the relay node may not transmit on the primary cell in the uplink. Contemplated embodiments may help avoid situations where relay node uplink control information transmission may not be possible on the interface between the relay node and the donor eNodeB eNB perhaps because of uplink transmission restrictions on a primary cell due to subframe configuration. Embodiments also contemplate that resources on the interface between the relay node and the donor eNodeB may be scheduled across one or more or multiple component carriers or serving cells.

Embodiments contemplate one or more or multiple serving cells or component carriers that may be associated with the interface between one or more relay nodes and the donor eNodeB DeNB or one or more DeNBs . Embodiments contemplate that the one or more relay nodes may determine a subframe partition configuration for transmission between the one or more relay nodes and the donor eNodeB. For example the relay node may receive the partition configuration from the donor eNodeB via radio resource control signaling. The relay node may apply the partition configuration on one or more of the serving cells or component carriers.

Embodiments contemplate that the serving cells that may be associated with the interface between the relay node and a donor eNodeB may include a primary serving cell and one or more secondary serving cells. In one or more embodiments the relay node may transmit at least a portion of uplink control information on a Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH that may be associated with a secondary serving cell. Embodiments also contemplate that portions of uplink control information may be bundled and or transmitted across a plurality of subframes between the relay node and the donor eNodeB. Further embodiments contemplate that resources that may be associated with one serving cell may be scheduled via control signaling received on another serving cell.

Embodiments contemplate a node where the node may be in communication with a wireless communication system. The node may be configured at least in part to communicate with at least a first serving cell and a second serving cell. The node may also be configured to receive a first subframe partitioning configuration for the first serving cell. In addition the node may be configured to receive a second subframe partitioning configuration for the second serving cell. Further the node may be configured to apply at least a part of the first subframe partitioning configuration and at least a part of the second subframe partitioning configuration to at least one of the first serving cell or the second serving cell. In one or more embodiments the first serving cell may be a primary serving cell Pcell and the second serving cell may be a secondary serving cell Scell . Also embodiments contemplate that the first subframe partitioning configuration may be different than the second subframe partitioning configuration.

Embodiments contemplate a node that may be in communication with a wireless communication system. Embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured at least in part to communicate with at least a first serving cell and a second serving cell where the first serving cell may be a primary serving cell Pcell and the second serving cell may be a secondary serving cell Scell . Embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured to receive a first subframe partitioning configuration for the Pcell. Embodiments also contemplate that the node may be configured to receive a second subframe partitioning configuration for the Scell. Embodiments also contemplate that the node may be configured to transmit at least a portion of uplink control information UCI via a subframe of a Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH of the Scell based on a condition where the condition may be based at least in part on at least one of the first subframe partitioning configuration or the second subframe partitioning configuration. One or more embodiments contemplate that the condition may include the first subframe partitioning configuration for the Pcell having a restricted uplink in a subframe corresponding to the subframe of the Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH of the Scell.

Embodiments contemplate a node where the node may be in communication with a wireless communication system. Embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured at least in part to communicate with at least a first serving cell and a second serving cell where the first serving cell may be a primary serving cell Pcell and the second serving cell may be a secondary serving cell Scell . Embodiments contemplate that that node may be configured to receive a subframe partitioning configuration for the Pcell. Also embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured to transmit at least a portion of uplink control information UCI via a subframe of a Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH of the Scell where the Scell may have no subframe partitioning configuration.

Embodiments contemplate a node where the node may be in communication with a wireless communication system. Embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured at least in part to communicate with a first component carrier and a second component carrier. Embodiments also contemplate that the node may be configured to receive a first subframe partitioning configuration for the first component carrier. Embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured to receive a second subframe partitioning configuration for the second component carrier. One or more embodiments contemplate that the first subframe partitioning configuration may be different than the second subframe partitioning configuration. Embodiments also contemplate that the node may be configured to implement cross carrier scheduling between the first component carrier and the second component carrier utilizing a timing offset value.

A detailed description of illustrative embodiments will now be described with reference to the various Figures. Although this description provides a detailed example of possible implementations it should be noted that the details are intended to be exemplary and in no way limit the scope of the application. As used herein the article a absent further qualification or characterization may be understood to mean one or more or at least one for example.

As shown in the communications system may include wireless transmit receive units WTRUs a radio access network RAN a core network a public switched telephone network PSTN the Internet and other networks though it will be appreciated that the disclosed embodiments contemplate any number of WTRUs base stations networks and or network elements. Each of the WTRUs may be any type of device configured to operate and or communicate in a wireless environment. By way of example the WTRUs may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals and may include user equipment WTRU a mobile station a fixed or mobile subscriber unit a pager a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone a laptop a netbook a personal computer a wireless sensor consumer electronics and the like.

The communications systems may also include a base station and a base station . Each of the base stations may be any type of device configured to wirelessly interface with at least one of the WTRUs to facilitate access to one or more communication networks such as the core network the Internet and or the networks . By way of example the base stations may be a base transceiver station BTS a Node B an eNode B a Home Node B a Home eNode B a site controller an access point AP a wireless router and the like. While the base stations are each depicted as a single element it will be appreciated that the base stations may include any number of interconnected base stations and or network elements.

The base station may be part of the RAN which may also include other base stations and or network elements not shown such as a base station controller BSC a radio network controller RNC relay nodes etc. The base station and or the base station may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals within a particular geographic region which may be referred to as a cell not shown . The cell may further be divided into cell sectors. For example the cell associated with the base station may be divided into three sectors. Thus in one embodiment the base station may include three transceivers i.e. one for each sector of the cell. In another embodiment the base station may employ multiple input multiple output MIMO technology and therefore may utilize multiple transceivers for each sector of the cell.

The base stations may communicate with one or more of the WTRUs over an air interface which may be any suitable wireless communication link e.g. radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR ultraviolet UV visible light etc. . The air interface may be established using any suitable radio access technology RAT .

More specifically as noted above the communications system may be a multiple access system and may employ one or more channel access schemes such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and the like. For example the base station in the RAN and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA which may establish the air interface using wideband CDMA WCDMA . WCDMA may include communication protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA and or Evolved HSPA HSPA . HSPA may include High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA and or High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA .

In another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access E UTRA which may establish the air interface using Long Term Evolution LTE and or LTE Advanced LTE A .

In other embodiments the base station and the WTRUs may implement radio technologies such as IEEE 802.16 i.e. Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX CDMA2000 CDMA2000 1X CDMA2000 EV DO Interim Standard 2000 IS 2000 Interim Standard 95 IS 95 Interim Standard 856 IS 856 Global System for Mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE GSM EDGE GERAN and the like.

The base station in may be a wireless router Home Node B Home eNode B or access point for example and may utilize any suitable RAT for facilitating wireless connectivity in a localized area such as a place of business a home a vehicle a campus and the like. In one embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.11 to establish a wireless local area network WLAN . In another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.15 to establish a wireless personal area network WPAN . In yet another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may utilize a cellular based RAT e.g. WCDMA CDMA2000 GSM LTE LTE A etc. to establish a picocell or femtocell. As shown in the base station may have a direct connection to the Internet . Thus the base station may not be required to access the Internet via the core network .

The RAN may be in communication with the core network which may be any type of network configured to provide voice data applications and or voice over internet protocol VoIP services to one or more of the WTRUs . For example the core network may provide call control billing services mobile location based services pre paid calling Internet connectivity video distribution etc. and or perform high level security functions such as user authentication. Although not shown in it will be appreciated that the RAN and or the core network may be in direct or indirect communication with other RANs that employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT. For example in addition to being connected to the RAN which may be utilizing an E UTRA radio technology the core network may also be in communication with another RAN not shown employing a GSM radio technology.

The core network may also serve as a gateway for the WTRUs to access the PSTN the Internet and or other networks . The PSTN may include circuit switched telephone networks that provide plain old telephone service POTS . The Internet may include a global system of interconnected computer networks and devices that use common communication protocols such as the transmission control protocol TCP user datagram protocol UDP and the internet protocol IP in the TCP IP internet protocol suite. The networks may include wired or wireless communications networks owned and or operated by other service providers. For example the networks may include another core network connected to one or more RANs which may employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT.

Some or all of the WTRUs in the communications system may include multi mode capabilities i.e. the WTRUs may include multiple transceivers for communicating with different wireless networks over different wireless links. For example the WTRU shown in may be configured to communicate with the base station which may employ a cellular based radio technology and with the base station which may employ an IEEE 802 radio technology.

The processor may be a general purpose processor a special purpose processor a conventional processor a digital signal processor DSP a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in association with a DSP core a controller a microcontroller Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Array FPGAs circuits any other type of integrated circuit IC a state machine and the like. The processor may perform signal coding data processing power control input output processing and or any other functionality that enables the WTRU to operate in a wireless environment. The processor may be coupled to the transceiver which may be coupled to the transmit receive element . While depicts the processor and the transceiver as separate components it will be appreciated that the processor and the transceiver may be integrated together in an electronic package or chip.

The transmit receive element may be configured to transmit signals to or receive signals from a base station e.g. the base station over the air interface . For example in one embodiment the transmit receive element may be an antenna configured to transmit and or receive RF signals. In another embodiment the transmit receive element may be an emitter detector configured to transmit and or receive IR UV or visible light signals for example. In yet another embodiment the transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and receive both RF and light signals. It will be appreciated that the transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and or receive any combination of wireless signals.

In addition although the transmit receive element is depicted in as a single element the WTRU may include any number of transmit receive elements . More specifically the WTRU may employ MIMO technology. Thus in one embodiment the WTRU may include two or more transmit receive elements e.g. multiple antennas for transmitting and receiving wireless signals over the air interface .

The transceiver may be configured to modulate the signals that are to be transmitted by the transmit receive element and to demodulate the signals that are received by the transmit receive element . As noted above the WTRU may have multi mode capabilities. Thus the transceiver may include multiple transceivers for enabling the WTRU to communicate via multiple RATs such as UTRA and IEEE 802.11 for example.

The processor of the WTRU may be coupled to and may receive user input data from the speaker microphone the keypad and or the display touchpad e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD display unit or organic light emitting diode OLED display unit . The processor may also output user data to the speaker microphone the keypad and or the display touchpad . In addition the processor may access information from and store data in any type of suitable memory such as the non removable memory and or the removable memory . The non removable memory may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard disk or any other type of memory storage device. The removable memory may include a subscriber identity module SIM card a memory stick a secure digital SD memory card and the like. In other embodiments the processor may access information from and store data in memory that is not physically located on the WTRU such as on a server or a home computer not shown .

The processor may receive power from the power source and may be configured to distribute and or control the power to the other components in the WTRU . The power source may be any suitable device for powering the WTRU . For example the power source may include one or more dry cell batteries e.g. nickel cadmium NiCd nickel zinc NiZn nickel metal hydride NiMH lithium ion Li ion etc. solar cells fuel cells and the like.

The processor may also be coupled to the GPS chipset which may be configured to provide location information e.g. longitude and latitude regarding the current location of the WTRU . In addition to or in lieu of the information from the GPS chipset the WTRU may receive location information over the air interface from a base station e.g. base stations and or determine its location based on the timing of the signals being received from two or more nearby base stations. It will be appreciated that the WTRU may acquire location information by way of any suitable location determination method while remaining consistent with an embodiment.

The processor may further be coupled to other peripherals which may include one or more software and or hardware modules that provide additional features functionality and or wired or wireless connectivity. For example the peripherals may include an accelerometer an e compass a satellite transceiver a digital camera for photographs or video a universal serial bus USB port a vibration device a television transceiver a hands free headset a Bluetooth module a frequency modulated FM radio unit a digital music player a media player a video game player module an Internet browser and the like.

The RAN may include eNode Bs though it will be appreciated that the RAN may include any number of eNode Bs while remaining consistent with an embodiment. The eNode Bs may each include one or more transceivers for communicating with the WTRUs over the air interface . In one embodiment the eNode Bs may implement MIMO technology. Thus the eNode B for example may use multiple antennas to transmit wireless signals to and receive wireless signals from the WTRU

Each of the eNode Bs and may be associated with a particular cell not shown and may be configured to handle radio resource management decisions handover decisions scheduling of users in the uplink and or downlink and the like. As shown in the eNode Bs may communicate with one another over an X2 interface.

The core network shown in may include a mobility management gateway MME a serving gateway and a packet data network PDN gateway . While each of the foregoing elements are depicted as part of the core network it will be appreciated that any one of these elements may be owned and or operated by an entity other than the core network operator.

The MME may be connected to each of the eNode Bs in the RAN via an S1 interface and may serve as a control node. For example the MME may be responsible for authenticating users of the WTRUs bearer activation deactivation selecting a particular serving gateway during an initial attach of the WTRUs and the like. The MME may also provide a control plane function for switching between the RAN and other RANs not shown that employ other radio technologies such as GSM or WCDMA.

The serving gateway may be connected to each of the eNode Bs and in the RAN via the S1 interface. The serving gateway may generally route and forward user data packets to from the WTRUs . The serving gateway may also perform other functions such as anchoring user planes during inter eNode B handovers triggering paging when downlink data is available for the WTRUs managing and storing contexts of the WTRUs and the like.

The serving gateway may also be connected to the PDN gateway which may provide the WTRUs with access to packet switched networks such as the Internet to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and IP enabled devices.

The core network may facilitate communications with other networks. For example the core network may provide the WTRUs with access to circuit switched networks such as the PSTN to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and traditional land line communications devices. For example the core network may include or may communicate with an IP gateway e.g. an IP multimedia subsystem IMS server that serves as an interface between the core network and the PSTN . In addition the core network may provide the WTRUs with access to the networks which may include other wired or wireless networks that are owned and or operated by other service providers.

Embodiments recognize that 3GPP LTE Release 8 9 LTE R8 9 may support up to 100 Mbps in the downlink DL and up to 50 Mbps in the uplink UL for a 2 2 configuration for example. The LTE downlink transmission scheme may be based on an OFDMA air interface. Embodiments recognize that LTE R8 9 systems may support scalable transmission bandwidths for example one of 1.4 2.5 5 10 15 or 20 MHz.

In LTE R8 9 and R10 a radio frame may include 10 milliseconds ms . A radio frame may include 10 equally sized sub frames of 1 ms. Each sub frame may include 2 equally sized timeslots of 0.5 ms each for example. Embodiments recognize that there can be 7 or 6 OFDM symbols for example per timeslot. For example 7 symbols per timeslot may be used with normal cyclic prefix length and 6 symbols per timeslot can be used in a system configuration with the extended cyclic prefix length. In one or more embodiments the sub carrier spacing for the LTE R8 9 system may be 15 kHz. And in one or more embodiments a reduced sub carrier spacing mode may use 7.5 kHz.

Embodiments contemplate that a resource element RE may correspond to one 1 sub carrier during one 1 OFDM symbol interval and in some embodiments may precisely correspond to one 1 sub carrier during one 1 OFDM symbol interval. For example 12 consecutive sub carriers during a 0.5 ms timeslot could constitute one 1 resource block RB . With 7 symbols per timeslot each RB may include 12 7 84 RE s. A DL carrier can include a scalable number of resource blocks RBs for example ranging from a minimum of 6 RBs up to a maximum of 110 RBs. By way of example and not limitation this may correspond to an overall scalable transmission bandwidth of roughly 1 MHz up to 20 MHz. For example a set of common transmission bandwidths may be specified such as 1.4 3 5 10 and or 20 MHz.

In one or more embodiments the basic time domain unit for dynamic scheduling may be one sub frame that may include two consecutive timeslots. This may be referred to as a resource block pair. Embodiments contemplate that certain sub carriers on some OFDM symbols may be allocated to carry pilot signals in the time frequency grid. In one or more embodiments a given number of sub carriers at the edges of the transmission bandwidth may not be transmitted in order to comply with spectral mask requirements among other reasons for example.

Embodiments recognize that carrier aggregation may improve single carrier data rates using among other techniques bandwidth extensions. With carrier aggregation a WTRU may transmit and receive simultaneously over the Physical Uplink Shared Channel PUSCH and the Physical Downlink Shared Channel PDSCH of multiple serving cells among other configurations for example. Embodiments also recognize that in LTE R8 9 and or for R10 in single carrier configuration where the network NW may assign the WTRU at least one pair of UL and DL carriers FDD or one carrier time shared for UL and DL TDD for any given subframe there may be a Hybrid Automatic Repeat reQuest HARQ process active for the UL and in some embodiments perhaps a single HARQ process active for the UL and or a HARQ process active in the DL and in some embodiments perhaps a single HARQ process active in the DL .

Embodiments recognize that LTE Advanced with Carrier Aggregation LTE CA R10 may improve single carrier LTE data rates using among other methods bandwidth extensions also referred to as Carrier Aggregation CA . With CA in one or more embodiments the WTRU may transmit and receive simultaneously over the Physical Uplink Shared Channel PUSCH and the Physical Downlink Shared Channel PDSCH respectively of one or more or multiple serving cells. For example up to four secondary serving cells SCells may be used in addition to a primary serving Cell PCell . Flexible bandwidth assignments up to 100 MHz may be supported. Embodiments contemplate that Uplink Control Information UCI may include HARQ ACK NACK feedback and or Channel State Information CSI . In one or more embodiments UCI may be transmitted on Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH resources of the PCell and or on PUSCH resources available for a serving cell configured for uplink transmissions.

The control information for the scheduling of PDSCH and PUSCH may be sent on one or more Physical Data Control Channel s PDCCH . In addition to the LTE R8 9 scheduling using one PDCCH for a pair of UL and DL carriers embodiments recognize that cross carrier scheduling may be supported for a given PDCCH which may allow the network to provide PDSCH assignments and or PUSCH grants for transmissions in other serving cell s .

One or more embodiments recognize that for a LTE R10 WTRU operating with CA there may be one HARQ entity for each serving cell. In one or more embodiments some HARQ entities or perhaps each HARQ entity may include 8 HARQ processes such that there may be one HARQ process per subframe for one round trip time RTT . Embodiments contemplate that there can be more than one HARQ process active for the UL and or for the DL in any given subframe. In one or more embodiments there may be at most one UL and one DL HARQ process per configured serving cell.

One or more embodiments recognize that the WTRU may not be configured for support of simultaneous PUCCH and PUSCH transmissions. For example when there is at least one PUSCH transmission on a serving cell in one or more embodiments the WTRU may transmit UCI on a single PUSCH transmission in a given subframe. When there is PUSCH transmission on the PCell the WTRU may transmit UCI on that PUSCH transmission in a given subframe. Alternatively or additionally in one or more embodiments the WTRU may transmit UCI on the PUSCH of the Scell with the lowest servCellIndex for example based at least in part on the index configured for some SCells or perhaps each Scell. For example when there is no PUSCH transmission on any cell the WTRU may transmit UCI on PUCCH of the PCell.

In one or more embodiments simultaneous PUCCH and PUSCH transmission may be supported. Embodiments contemplate that ACK NACK may be transmitted on PUCCH and CSI may be transmitted on a PUSCH. The selection of PUSCH transmission may be the same as described herein with respect to the example s where simultaneous PUCCH and PUSCH transmission may not be supported.

In one or more embodiments aperiodic CSI may be transmitted for which the WTRU may receive an UL grant. The WTRU may transmit the aperiodic CSI on the PUSCH Pcell or Scell for which the grant was received.

Embodiments contemplate that there may be different transmission formats defined for PUCCH such as format and format . Some formats or each format may carry a different number of UCI bits. Embodiments contemplate rules that may be specified to handle cases such as but not limited to when the number of UCI bits may exceed the number of bits available for transmission of UCI for example.

Embodiments contemplate that relay nodes RNs can offer a low cost alternative to evolved NodeBs eNBs in electronic networks. Cost reductions may be achieved when using relays at least in part by eliminating the capital and operating expenses associated with a wired link to the network. A relay node may serve as an intermediary for multiple user equipments UEs or wireless transmit receive units WTRUs to communicate with a donor eNB DeNB that may provide the WTRUs with a link to the network for example. illustrates a block diagram of an exemplary communication network architecture. As shown a relay node RN may act as a serving cell for one or more WTRUs such that the WTRUs may connect to a communication network such as an LTE network. As shown the WTRUs may communicate with the RN via an interface between the WTRU and the RN Uu interface and the RN may communicate with a donor eNB DeNB via an interface between the RN and the DeNB Un interface . In one or more embodiments an RN WTRU may include a WTRU that may have a relay node as its serving cell. Embodiments contemplate that a Macro WTRU may include a WTRU that may have an eNB as its serving cell. In one or more embodiments the eNB may be a donor eNB for one or more RNs for example.

As shown a Uu Interface or RN Uu Interface may include an interface between the RN and a given WTRU that the RN may be serving. An Uu Interface may be referred to as the RN access link. A Un Interface may include an interface between the RN and its donor eNB. A Un interface may include a radio interface that may among other things facilitate RN traffic. The Un interface may be referred to as the backhaul interface or link. A Uu DRB UE DRB may include DRB configured for service to from a WTRU for example. Uu RB UE RB may include a radio bearer RB configured for service to from a WTRU. The RB may be a data radio bearer DRB a signaling radio bearer SRB or the like. In one or more embodiments a Un DRB may include a DRB configured for a radio bearer over Un between donor eNB and a relay node. DRB may be used to transport UE related data traffic for example.

Embodiments recognize that in R10 carrier aggregation may apply to transmission between an eNB and a WTRU and may be extended to apply to the transmission between a RN and a WTRU and or between an RN and a DeNB for example. Embodiments contemplate that the transmission between an RN and a DeNB such as the backhaul link for example may be extended.

Embodiments recognize that a Type 1 RN may use the same carrier frequencies on the Uu and Un interfaces. In one or more embodiments the Type 1 RN may be unable to transmit on one interface and receive on the other at the same time due to self interference among other reasons. For example the transmission on one link may interfere with the reception on the other. For this type of relay embodiments contemplate that subframes may be partitioned between the two links to avoid this self interference. A Un subframe configuration may be provided to the RN to among other things identify the subframes for backhaul communication. Embodiments recognize that a Type 1a RN may use different carrier frequencies on the Uu and the Un. In one or more embodiments subframe partitioning may not be needed for a Type 1a RN. Embodiments recognize that a Type 1b RN may use the same carrier frequencies on the Uu and Un interfaces and or may have antenna isolation such that there may be no self interference and in one or more embodiments may not need subframe partitioning.

Embodiments contemplate that a RN configured to operate on the same carrier for both the Un and the Uu may be provided with a Un subframe configuration by the DeNB. For explanatory purposes and not by way of limitation this may be referred to as an RN subframe configuration. The RN subframe configuration may identify the subframes that may be used between the RN and DeNB for Un backhaul communication for example. One or more embodiments contemplate that during Un subframes the RN may receive a transmission from the DeNB over the Un interface and or during non Un subframes the RN may schedule transmissions to its WTRUs over its Uu interface. For Frequency Division Duplexing FDD in one or more embodiments the Un subframe pattern may be configured for a 40 subframe period and subframes may not be configured as Un subframes for example. By way of example and not limitation embodiments contemplate that Time Division Duplexing TDD may have its own Un subframe period and or disallowed Un subframes and or may take into account the UL DL configuration.

Embodiments contemplate that the subframes configured for Un use may be configured by the RN as Multicast Broadcast Single Frequency Network MBSFN subframes on the RN s Uu interface. In one or more such configured embodiments the RN WTRUs may ignore the content of those subframes except perhaps for the unicast control signals which may be transmitted in the first one 1 or two 2 Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM symbols for example. In these subframes for example the RN may transmit the unicast control signals to the WTRUs and or it may switch from transmission Tx mode to reception Rx mode and or listen to the DeNB on the Un interface.

Embodiments contemplate that the unicast control signals may be used for HARQ acknowledgement. For example in one or more embodiments the Physical Hybrid Automatic Repeat reQuest Indicator Channel PHICH may be used to acknowledge uplink transmissions.

In one or more embodiments Rel 8 WTRUs may access the RNs. In terms of throughput efficiency there may be for example three 3 OFDM symbols wasted at the beginning of each subframe and for example a maximum of two 2 symbols for unicast control region and one 1 for the switching time between RN Tx and RN Rx.

Embodiments contemplate that the framework of Relay Physical Downlink Control Channel R PDCCH may be used to carry Downlink Control Information DCI for relay nodes. In one or more embodiments the transmission of R PDCCH may be restricted to a subset of subcarriers and OFDM symbols in a slot and configured by Radio Resource Control RRC . By way of example in one or more embodiments DCI format A may not be expected by the relay. In one or more embodiments R PDCCH may be used with the type 1 relay and in some embodiments may only be used with the type 1 relay and the regular PDCCH may be used for other types of relays for example.

In addition to the FDD operation mode embodiments recognize that LTE may support a TDD operation mode as well. Embodiments contemplate that the downlink and uplink transmissions may be performed on the same carrier frequency where the physical resources are shared in time domain. Embodiments contemplate that a 10 ms TDD frame may include 10 subframes where some subframes or each subframe may last for 1 ms as seen in for example.

Embodiments contemplate that perhaps based on the TDD UL DL configuration the subframes may be divided between uplink and downlink. shows exemplary TDD UL DL configurations that may be supported in Rel 10. Switching from DL subframes to UL subframes may happen in subframe and in some embodiments perhaps only in subframe and possibly subframe which may be referred to as the special subframes by way of explanation and not limitation. To avoid generating severe interference on the neighboring cells among other reasons in some embodiments the same TDD UL DL configuration may be used for the neighboring cells and because of this the UL DL configuration may be static and may not change dynamically.

Embodiments recognize that in Rel 10 intra band carrier aggregation may be supported and in some embodiments perhaps only intra band carrier aggregation may be supported and aggregated carriers for TDD may have the same TDD UL DL configurations and in some embodiments perhaps the aggregated carriers for TDD may be required to have the same TDD UL DL configurations.

Embodiments contemplate carrier aggregation for carriers that may have subframe restrictions. Carriers for which not all subframes may be available for transmission or reception are referred to herein as carriers with subframe restrictions by way of explanation and not limitation. TDD carriers may be considered subframe restricted carriers and in some embodiments may always be considered subframe restricted carriers due to among other reasons the inherent need for time sharing the carrier between UL and DL and or the need for an UL DL configuration. In one or more embodiments relay Un carriers for which a subframe configuration is provided may also be considered to be a subframe restricted carrier. The application of carrier aggregation in scenarios with subframe restricted carriers is contemplated. Deployment scenarios in which different carriers may have different subframe restrictions may present challenges that are contemplated by one or more embodiments.

Embodiments contemplate that carrier aggregation may be applied to the relay backhaul where some carriers or each carrier may have its own subframe configuration restriction .

Embodiments contemplate carrier aggregation for TDD. More specifically carrier aggregation is considered for TDD where some carriers or each carrier may be configured with possibly different TDD UL DL configuration. Use of different TDD UL DL configurations may allow flexibility in deployment and may be useful for inter band TDD aggregation for example among other reasons.

Embodiments contemplate that carrier aggregation may be applied to scenarios where a node may be limited by having at least one of its assigned carriers fully or partially restricted in terms of its available subframes for example among other contemplate scenarios. As described herein such a node may be referred to as a Subframe Restricted Node or in short a SRNode by way of explanation and not limitation.

An example application of this arrangement is in the relay context where carrier aggregation may be supported by the relay over the backhaul Un interface and or where one or more secondary serving cell s may be configured for the Un interface. In such scenarios there is a possibility that at least one of these carriers may be restricted in terms of subframe configuration for example PCell and or Scell s may further be configured either for in band relay operation which may require subframe restricted operation or for outband relay operation. For example referring to FIG. CCI may be configured as the PCell for the relay in which case the Pcell would operate in band and the Scell CC would operate outband . For for some combinations or perhaps for any combination both the PCell and the Scell may be configured for in band relay configuration. In one or more of these exemplary scenarios the RN may be considered an SRNode. As described herein the Un interface of the relays is described unless another interface or interfaces is otherwise stated and or described.

Embodiments contemplate one or more aggregation arrangements in the context of TDD where two or more carriers may be aggregated by a WTRU operating in TDD mode. In such scenarios some carriers or each carrier may have its own subframe restrictions based at least in part on the carrier s TDD UL DL configuration. Embodiments contemplate that the restrictions may be different for the different carriers. Embodiments contemplate that such TDD WTRUs may also be considered as a SRNode for example.

By way of further example a relay operating in TDD mode on the Un may be considered as a SRNode whether or not it requires a Un subframe configuration since the subframes may be inherently restricted by the TDD UL DL configuration which may be defined for each TDD carrier and in some embodiments must be defined for each TDD carrier.

One or more embodiments contemplate that for an SRNode subframe restrictions on the PCell may lead to situations where a subframe is not available for UL and or DL transmissions on that cell including the possibility that UCI e.g. HARQ A N and or CSI may need to be transmitted in a subframe that is not available for uplink transmissions on the PCell.

Embodiments contemplate techniques to support cross carrier scheduling for scenarios described previously. In one or more embodiments such cross carrier scheduling can be considered as a part of DCI transmission which may also include UL grant and or DL grant etc. DCI transmission may also be addressed for the SRNode scenarios when the subframe that may be used or perhaps in some embodiments even needed to provide the DCI transmission is not available for downlink transmissions on Pcell.

Embodiments contemplate SRNode UCI transmission to the NB or DeNB referred to herein as D eNB by way of explanation and not limitation in a subframe where the SRNode may not transmit on the PCell UL. Embodiments also contemplate techniques to avoid situations where SRNode UCI transmission to the D eNB may not be possible because of among other reasons UL transmission restrictions on PCell due to subframe configuration for example the Un subframe configuration in the context of relays . Further one or more embodiments contemplate techniques to enable SRNode cross carrier scheduling on the aggregated carriers with different subframe restrictions for example.

One or more embodiments contemplate subframe partitioning with CA. For example embodiments contemplate how a SRNode may determine what subframe partitioning to apply for the configured serving cells when communicating with D eNB. One or more embodiments contemplate techniques that may ensure that a transmission does not occur in a subframe in which UCI transmission on the PCell may not be possible due to among other reasons uplink restriction on the Pcell.

One or more embodiments contemplate Uplink Control Information UCI transmission with CA. For example embodiments contemplate how to select an uplink resource e.g. PUCCH PUSCH for UCI transmission in a subframe for which at least one uplink resource is available on a carrier configured as a secondary serving cell perhaps when communicating with D eNB e.g. on the Un interface in relay context among other scenarios. This may for example be useful in a subframe for which few uplink resources or perhaps no uplink resources are available on a carrier configured as a primary serving cell e.g. for relay Un in band operation. Another example of the same issue may occur when a TDD WTRU may be configured with a different TDD UL DL configuration for PCell and Scell s .

One or more embodiments contemplate cross carrier scheduling. Embodiments contemplate techniques to address the resources of a first uplink downlink carrier scheduled using control signaling received on a second downlink component carrier where the subframe configuration e.g. the available subframes may not be the same for the aggregated carriers. For example in the context of the relays one or more embodiments contemplate techniques to perform cross carrier scheduling perhaps when one or more carriers may be configured for in band relay operation e.g. with a Un subframe configuration . One or more embodiments also contemplate in TDD techniques to perform cross carrier scheduling perhaps when the UL DL configurations of the first and second carriers are different so the available DL UL subframes of those carriers are not the same for example.

In one or more embodiments a SRNode may be configured with subframe partitioning also referred to as configuration or restriction by way of explanation and not limitation by the D eNB using layer 3 RRC signaling for example.

One or more embodiments contemplate that a SRNode may determine the subframe partitioning using one or more techniques either individually or in combination. SRNode specific subframe partitioning configuration may be provided. In one or more embodiments the SRNode may receive a single subframe partitioning configuration which may be applied to the PCell and to some SCells or to all configured SCells.

Further one or more embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may determine the subframe partitioning using cell specific subframe partitioning configuration . For example the SRNode may receive a subframe partitioning configuration for some serving cells or for each serving cell for which the subframe restriction is applicable.

Further one or more embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may determine the subframe partitioning using cell type specific subframe partitioning configuration . For example the SRNode may receive a subframe partitioning configuration for the PCell and a different subframe partitioning applicable to the configured serving SCells to which the received subframe restriction may be applied.

Additionally one or more embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may determine the subframe partitioning using Cell type hybrid specific implicit subframe partitioning configuration . The SRNode may receive a subframe partitioning configuration for the Pcell and the subframe configuration of the Scell s may be allocated based at least in part on the configuration of the Pcell according to a mapping in some embodiments perhaps a predetermined mapping between the subframe configurations of the Pcell and Scell s . In some embodiments if there is more than one 1 Scell involved the subframe configurations of those Scells may be the same or different based on at least in part the ordering of those Scells and the predetermined mapping. By way of example in the context of the TDD if the configuration of the Pcell is set to two 2 then the configuration of the Scell may be automatically set to 1. illustrates further examples of such embodiments.

Further one or more embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may determine the subframe partitioning using cumulative subframe partitioning. For example the SRNode may receive different subframe partitioning for one or more configured serving cells in which case the SRNode may apply the union of the subframe configurations for at least a subset of the configured cells or all of the configured cells. Some embodiments contemplate that the union of the subframe configurations may be applied for UL only which may help ensure that the Scell UCI transmissions may have UL resources. Also in some embodiments the union of the subframe configurations may be applied for DL only which may help ensure that the DL cross carrier scheduling can be carried out on Pcell for Scell DL transmissions. In some embodiments the union of the subframe partitioning may be applied such that the Pcell UL subframe configuration may be the union of the UL subframe configurations of the Pcell and the Scells for which configurations may have been received. This may help ensure that UCI for the Scells could be transmitted on the Pcell UL.

Further some embodiments contemplate that the union of the subframe partitioning for DL and or UL may be applied to a subset of the configured cells and in some embodiments perhaps only to a subset of the configured cells. For example the union of the subframe partitioning may be applied to SCells only. As an example in the context of TDD the DL subframes of the Pcell may not be the same as those for Scell. Consequently one subframe might be configured as a Pcell DL whereas it is a Scell UL. In such scenarios embodiments contemplate that the Scell DL subframes might be considered as a union of Pcell s and Scell s DL subframes. By doing so the Scell previously configured UL subframe described previously may become a DL subframe for the Scell. Embodiments contemplate half duplex TDD WTRUs where the simultaneous transmissions of UL and DL may not be supported and therefore in some subframes or in each subframe the communication directions e.g. Tx and Rx of some or all of the aggregated cells may either be the same and or some cells may be muted during one or more subframes.

Further one or more embodiments contemplate that the union may be applied for the direction but not for the transmission or reception. For example for a TDD half duplex WTRU or RN the DL direction may be given priority such that if any CC is configured for DL in a subframe the SRNode considers the direction to be DL but may expect to receive and in some embodiments may only expect to receive e.g. may only look for DL transmission on a CC specifically configured for DL in that subframe. Some embodiments also contemplate that this may only be applicable to SRNodes operating half duplex for example. Embodiments contemplate by way of example and not limitation that a DL or UL union of one or more subframe configurations may be defined per subframe across those subframe configurations where the UL DL direction of a subframe may be assumed to be the same in those subframe configurations and it may be determined as DL or UL if there exists at least one subframe configuration which has that specific subframe as a DL or UL subframe.

Alternatively or additionally one or more embodiments contemplate intersected subframe partitioning. The SRNode may receive different subframe partitioning for one or more configured serving cells in which case the SRNode may apply the intersection of the subframe configurations for at least a subset of the configured cells or all of the configured cells. For example in some embodiments the intersection of the subframe configurations may be applied for UL only or the DL only. Also by way of example in some embodiments the PCell configuration may be used unchanged and or the SRNode may be restricted to using subframes of one or more SCells that have the same direction as the PCell and or the SRNode may not use the subframes of said SCells if their direction is different than that of the PCell. Also some embodiments contemplate that intersected subframe partitioning may only be applicable to SRNodes operating half duplex for example. Embodiments contemplate by way of example and not limitation that a DL or UL intersection of one or more subframe configurations may be defined per subframe across those subframe configurations where the UL DL direction of a subframe may be assumed to be the same in those subframe configurations and it may be determined as DL or UL if all of those subframe configurations have that specific subframe as a DL or UL subframe.

Embodiments contemplate that UL configurations may be explicitly provided to the SRNode or implicitly provided for example in R10 relays. Also for example UL subframe configuration for Un may be derived from the DL configuration e.g. DL 4 for FDD . A UL subframe configuration may be determined e.g. according to the DL to UL derivation rules whether or not a unique UL Scell is configured for each DL serving cell. In one or more embodiments the RN as a SRNode may have two 2 configured DL serving cells and one configured UL serving cell for example. Un subframe partitioning may be received by the RN for both the DL cells. The partitioning for the UL serving cell such as the Pcell may be the union of the UL partitioning that may be used by both of the DL serving cells or in some embodiments perhaps may be needed for both of the DL serving cells e.g. DL 4 for FDD for both DL cells. This may enable the RN to transmit UCI for both DL cells on the PCell UL among other benefits for example.

Embodiments contemplate that in relay applications for subframes for which the RN may add an UL subframe to its Un configuration collisions with reception on the Uu UL may be avoided via scheduling or via an MBSFN subframe on the Uu link. This subframe may be the DL subframe associated with the UL subframe for which the UL subframe is added on the Un e.g. UL 4 for FDD .

By way of further example for relays in FDD in order for the RN to not receive access link data in subframe n the RN may not provide an UL grant in subframe n 4. The RN may not receive ACK NACK on the access link in subframe n. The RN may not provide a DL grant in subframe n 4. The RN may avoid UL and DL grants on the access link in subframe n 4 such that traffic and UCI on the UL in subframe n may be avoided. The RN may configure subframe n 4 as an MBSFN subframe such that the access WTRUs may not need to read PDCCH. Similarly embodiments contemplate that the TDD rules may be used for TDD.

In one or more embodiments a SRNode may be configured with a subframe configuration for the PCell and or for one or more SCells. The SRNode may be configured with one or more PUCCH resource allocation on a Scell. For example the SRNode may be configured with one or more PUCCH resources on a Scell in addition to the PUCCH resources on the PCell.

Embodiments contemplate that the uplink resource for transmission of UCI on PUCCH may be selected. The SRNode may be configured with one or more PUCCH resources for a Scell configured with uplink. The Scell configuration for PUCCH may be received using higher layer signaling such as RRC signaling or using layer 1 signaling e.g. PDCCH in addition to the PUCCH configuration for the PCell . For example higher layer signaling and or layer 1 signaling may indicate whether or not the SRNode may transmit on the PUCCH resources configured for a concerned serving cell. In one or more embodiments the indication may be implicit for example based on the presence of a PUCCH configuration for the concerned Scell. In one or more embodiments the indication may be explicit for example via L1 PDCCH or R PDCCH in the context of relays for example L2 MAC or L3 RRC signaling. The SRNode may perform transmission on PUCCH of a serving cell according to any of the existing methods described in LTE R10 and or using any of the methods described herein.

Embodiments contemplate that the uplink resource for transmission of UCI on PUCCH may be selected considering the configured PUCCH resources for serving cells for which the SRNode may use for transmission and in some embodiments perhaps considering only the configured PUCCH resources for serving cells for which the SRNode may use for transmission. For a serving cell for which the SRNode may not be allowed to transmit UCI on PUCCH the SRNode may drop UCI for the concerned cell in a subframe. In the subframe the SRNode may have UCI to transmit and may normally transmit such UCI but embodiments recognize that there may not be any available uplink resource for transmission of the UCI on the PUSCH resource of a cell or on the PUCCH of the PCell.

For one or more embodiments described herein for transmitting UCI in a given subframe the need for SRNode transmission of UCI on PUCCH and possibly SRNode transmission of UCI on PUCCH may be limited to cases in which there is no PUSCH transmission in the subframe by the SRNode and or cases in which there may be PUSCH transmission in the subframe by the SRNode but the SRNode may not be configured for or may not support simultaneous PUSCH PUCCH transmission.

Embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may transmit at least part of the UCI on the PUCCH of a Scell configured with uplink PUCCH resources. For example the SRNode may transmit simultaneously on the PUCCH of a plurality of serving cells configured with a PUCCH resource on which the RN may be allowed to perform a PUCCH transmission. For example in case the RN is not configured for or does not support simultaneous PUSCH PUCCH transmissions in one or more embodiments transmissions of UCI on the PUCCH of the concerned Scell may be limited to subframes where PUSCH is unavailable on a serving cell. Also in one or more embodiments transmissions of UCI on the PUCCH of the concerned Scell may be limited to subframes where PUSCH is unavailable for the concerned Scell.

Embodiments contemplate that in scenarios where there is no PUCCH available on Pcell the UCI may be sent over PUSCH of the Scell based on at least in part UL grant for the Scell and or based on configuration of the Scell with possibly periodic PUSCH transmission with no required UL grant. In one or more embodiments for subframes which are not configured for UL on the Pcell the UCI may be sent over PUSCH of the Scell based on UL grant for the Scell and or based on configuration of the Scell with possibly periodic PUSCH transmission with no required UL grant. For example the determination of whether the SRNode may perform a transmission on the PUCCH of a Scell may be based on a function of the Pcell s subframe partitioning.

For example the RN as an SRNode may transmit on the PUCCH of a Scell in a subframe for which transmission on the uplink of the PCell may be impossible due to the Un subframe restriction of the PCell. The RN may multiplex a Scheduling Request SR on the PUCCH transmission for a Scell.

By way of further example in some embodiments the TDD WTRU may transmit UCI on the PUCCH of a Scell in a subframe for which transmission on the uplink of the PCell is not possible due to UL DL configuration of the PCell and perhaps only in such a subframe. The UCI may be UCI that the WTRU would have transmitted on the PUCCH of the PCell if the subframe was an UL subframe for the PCell. The WTRU may multiplex a SR on the PUCCH transmission for a Scell. In another example the SRNode e.g. RN or TDD WTRU may transmit on the PUCCH of a Scell in a subframe for which the Scell may not be restricted for uplink transmission by the subframe partitioning applicable to the Scell. The SRNode may not multiplex SR on the PUCCH transmission for a Scell.

The SRNode may transmit UCI on SCells as needed and according to the restrictions imposed by subframe configurations of the SCells if any without being limited by the subframe configuration of the PCell. When the use of the Scell s PUCCH is restricted to subframes for which the SRNode may not transmit on the uplink of the PCell the SRNode may transmit UCI in a subframe for which there is at least one serving cell with configured uplink PUCCH for which an uplink transmission is possible for example.

Embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may transmit PUCCH for the Scell with configured PUCCH resources for example by using PUCCH transmission rules similar to those for single carrier LTE operation in a serving cell.

For example in one or more embodiments the SRNode may transmit UCI on the PUCCH of a Scell in an available subframe in which case dynamic selection of a PUCCH resource by the SRNode may be dynamically allocated using any of the PUCCH format or depending on the amount of UCI bits to transmit. In some embodiments the UCI may include UCI for the concerned Scell only.

Embodiments contemplate that transmission of UCI on a Scell may be applied when the UCI transmission includes HARQ ACK NACK information for a PDSCH transmission that may be dynamically scheduled using the PDCCH of the Scell DL. Transmission of UCI on a Scell may be applied when periodic CSI for the Scell may be configured for transmission in this subframe and or if CSI request is transmitted following an aperiodic request received on the PDCCH or R PDCCH of the Scell DL.

Embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may transmit PUCCH for the Scell with configured PUCCH resources by using for example Rel 10 PUCCH transmission rules similar to those for LTE operation for carrier aggregation for a PCell.

For example in one or more embodiments the SRNode may be configured by higher layer signaling with one or more PUCCH resources on a Scell. UCI feedback for a plurality of serving cells may be transmitted on the PUCCH of the Scell for example as a function of the SRNode s PCell subframe partitioning. In some embodiments this may be similar to a configuration for the PUCCH for the PCell applied to a Scell. Such resources may include but are not limited to resources for channel selection with format and or format .

The SRNode may select the semi static PUCCH resource on the Scell in a subframe for which the SRNode cannot perform an uplink transmission on the PCell perhaps because of the subframe partitioning on the PCell. In some embodiments only if such transmission on the Scell UL is available according to the Scell s subframe partitioning if any . In some embodiments the selection of the use of the semi static PUCCH resource may be according to the same rules as for a PCell or according to another rule described herein. In some embodiments transmission on PUCCH may be applied to transmit UCI comprising of HARQ ACK NACK information for one of more serving cells and in some embodiments perhaps only to transmit UCI comprising of HARQ ACK NACK information for one of more serving cells. In some embodiments transmission on PUCCH may be applied for other transmissions.

Embodiments contemplate that a RN may transmit UCI to the D eNB on the PUCCH of a Scell in a subframe as a function of the Pcell s SRNode subframe partitioning for example. Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may transmit UCI on the PUCCH of a Scell in a subframe as a function of the Scell s SRNode subframe partitioning for example perhaps if configured and different than that of the PCell and or if no partitioning is configured among other conditions. Embodiments also contemplate that the SRNode may select the PUCCH resource of a Scell for UCI transmission perhaps if the Scell is configured for uplink transmission and or if the Scell has a PUCCH resource available for UCI transmission in the subframe among other conditions for example.

Embodiments contemplate that a SRNode may handle UCI with one or more techniques either individually or in combination. One or more embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may transmit at least part of the UCI on the PUCCH of at least one Scell in a subframe for which the subframe partitioning of the PCell may not allow the SRNode to transmit on the uplink resource of the PCell. Further one or more embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may transmit at least part of the UCI on the PUCCH of a Scell in a subframe for which the subframe partitioning of the concerned Scell if configured may allow the SRNode to transmit on the uplink resource of the Scell. Also one or more embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may transmit at least part of the UCI on the PUCCH of a Scell that may not be configured with a subframe partitioning and hence some or all FDD and UL TDD FDD half duplex subframes may be available for UL UCI transmission. Further one or more embodiments contemplate that perhaps if a resource that can convey at least part of the UCI is available on more than one Scell in the subframe the SRNode may transmit the UCI on a single resource possibly by selecting the PUCCH of the Scell based on a semi static configuration of the SRNode such as selecting the Scell with the smallest cell index for example. Also one or more embodiments contemplate that perhaps if there is no serving cell on which a resource can be used for the UCI transmission in the subframe among other conditions for example the SRNode may discard at least part of the UCI. Alternatively or additionally the SRNode may use a method described herein such as bundling of HARQ ACK NACK bits on a transmission performed in a subsequent subframe.

By way of example and not limitation embodiments contemplate that when communicating with D eNB perhaps if the subframe partitioning of the PCell of the SRNode allows the SRNode to transmit UCI on the PUCCH of the PCell among other conditions for example the SRNode may transmit the UCI on the PUCCH of the PCell.

Also by way of example and not limitation one or more embodiments contemplate that for the Un interface perhaps if the subframe partitioning of the PCell of the SRNode does not allow the SRNode to transmit UCI on the PUCCH of the PCell the subframe partitioning and the PUCCH configuration of at least one Scell with configured uplink may allow the SRNode to transmit UCI in this subframe. One or more embodiments contemplate that perhaps if there is a single serving cell for which an uplink transmission of the UCI is possible among other conditions for example the SRNode may transmit the UCI on the PUCCH of that Scell. Alternatively or additionally one or more embodiments contemplate that perhaps if there is no single serving cell for which an uplink transmission of the UCI is possible among other conditions for example the SRNode may transmit the UCI on the PUCCH of the Scell according to its semi static configuration such as but not limited to the Scell corresponding to the smallest cell index. In one or more embodiments HARQ ACK NACK feedback may be transmitted on Scell PUCCH and in some embodiments perhaps only HARQ ACK NACK feedback may be transmitted on Scell PUCCH. In one or more embodiments other information may be transmitted on Scell PUCCH.

One or more embodiments contemplate that perhaps if the subframe partitioning of the PCell of the SRNode does not allow the SRNode to transmit UCI on the PUCCH of the PCell and or the subframe partitioning and the PUCCH configuration of at least one Scell with configured uplink does not allow the SRNode to transmit UCI in this subframe among other conditions for example the SRNode may not transmit UCI on the uplink for any serving cell in this subframe and or may drop the UCI for this subframe.

One or more embodiments contemplate that perhaps if uplink transmission on a Scell is not restricted whereas the PCell subframe is restricted e.g. not available among other conditions for example the SRNode may transmit UCI on PUCCH of the Scell.

One or more embodiments contemplate a TDD WTRU as a SRNode with for example two 2 serving cells PCell and one Scell with different UL DL configurations to illustrate an exemplary transmission of UCI on the PUCCH of the Scell when the required UL subframe on the Pcell may not be available. Referring to in such scenarios UL DL configuration may be used for PCell and UL DL configuration may be used for Scell. shows exemplary UL DL S subframe allocations for each configuration.

By way of further example perhaps based on Rel 10 HARQ timing shows an example of PDSCH reception and corresponding HARQ ACK transmission by a WTRU given the UL DL configurations shown in . In each pattern corresponds to a pairing of PDSCH reception and the corresponding HARQ ACK transmitted by the TDD WTRU per cell. For example referring to the PCell for UL DL configuration HARQ ACK transmitted in Frame n subframe corresponds to DL PDSCH reception of data that occurred in Frame n 1 subframes in some embodiments ACK NACK may be bundled in TDD .

Referring to the Scell in the HARQ ACK corresponding to DL PDSCH received in frame n 1 subframe should be sent to the eNB in frame n subframe and would normally be sent in that subframe on the PCell PUCCH if no PUSCH resources are available. In this example the PCell does not have an UL subframe configured in frame n subframe . In this case in accordance with one or more embodiments the TDD WTRU may transmit HARQ ACK information on frame n subframe on Scell PUCCH if configured or possibly on a pre defined or pre scheduled Scell PUSCH resource for example.

Embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may transmit UCI to the D eNB on a selected PUCCH resource of a Scell using a format that may be a function of the SRNode s subframe partitioning for the configured serving cells.

One or more embodiments contemplate that in a subframe a maximum number of HARQ ACK NACK bits may be derived at least from the configuration of the transmission mode used for downlink transmissions on PDSCH. For example the maximum number of HARQ ACK NACK bits may be derived based on the number of spatial layers used and or the maximum number of transport block per subframe for a given serving cell. In addition some subframes may be configured such that a downlink transmission may be impossible due to subframe partitioning which may differ for each configured serving cell. For example the configuration may be semi static and may be modified using e.g. layer 3 RRC signaling such that the restrictions imposed by the SRNode s subframe partitioning may additionally be used to determine the maximum number of HARQ ACK NACK bits for each subframe. One or more embodiments contemplate that at least a bit for the transmission of a Scheduling Request SR bit may be included.

For example one or more embodiments contemplate that a SRNode may be configured with a plurality of PUCCH resources where some resources or each resource may be used when a specific range of HARQ ACK NACK and or CSI bits are transmitted. This configuration may be for the PCell for a Scell and or may be distributed across a plurality of serving cells. By way of example and not limitation one or more embodiments contemplate that PUCCH format may carry at most 1 bit of UCI information PUCCH format may carry at most 2 bits of UCI information channel selection with PUCCH format may carry up to 4 bits of UCI information while PUCCH format may carry up to 12 bits of UCI information. In one or more embodiments for a given subframe the SRNode may determine the maximum number of transport blocks that it may receive across configured serving cells as a function of the configuration of the cell and or as a function of each cell s RN partitioning. For example the SRNode may select the smallest PUCCH format available for the transmission of the concerned UCI in the subsequent subframe in which the SRNode is expected to transmit UCI. The configuration may be applied in a subframe in which the SRNode transmits HARQ ACK NACK bits and in some embodiments perhaps only transmits HARQ ACK NACK. In one or more embodiments the configuration may be applied in a subframe for which the SRNode may not transmit on the uplink of the PCell and in some embodiments perhaps only in a subframe for which the SRNode may not transmit on the uplink of the PCell. Embodiments contemplate that configuration may be applied in conjunction with other methods described herein such as but not limited to the methods described regarding selection of a PUCCH resource.

Embodiments contemplate that a SRNode may drop and or discard at least part of the UCI available for transmission to the D eNB in a given subframe as a function of the SRNode s subframe partitioning.

Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate that a SRNode may apply bundling to at least part of the UCI where bundling may be applied across UCI bits of a plurality of subframes. In one or more embodiments the number of subframes may be a function of the SRNode subframe configuration for example.

Embodiments contemplate that a SRNode may perform bundling for a number of subframes that may equal to the number of subframes for which the SRNode does not have a transmission opportunity for any UCI feedback to the D eNB for a specific serving cell. In one or more embodiments the SRNode may perform bundling for a Scell when the SRNode transmits at least part of the UCI on the PUCCH of a Scell configured with uplink PUCCH resources and in some embodiments perhaps only for a Scell when the SRNode transmits at least part of the UCI on the PUCCH of a Scell configured with uplink PUCCH resources. In one or more embodiments the SRNode may perform bundling for the PCell.

In one or more embodiments the SRNode may perform bundling for a number of subframes that may equal to the number of subframes for which the SRNode may not have a transmission opportunity for UCI feedback to the D eNB for the serving cells. In one or more embodiments the SRNode may perform bundling when the SRNode transmits UCI on the PUCCH of a Scell in a subframe at least as a function of the Pcell s SRNode subframe partitioning and in some embodiments perhaps only when the SRNode transmits UCI on the PUCCH of a Scell in a subframe at least as a function of the Pcell s SRNode subframe partitioning.

Embodiments contemplate HARQ ACK NACK bundling. In one or more embodiments bundling of HARQ ACK NACK may be performed by generating one or more HARQ ACK NACK bits by performing a logical AND operation across a plurality of HARQ ACK NACK bits for individual PDSCH transmission and or in response to received PDCCH e.g. a PDCCH indicating downlink SPS release or R PDCCH in the relay context. The SRNode may be provided with the capability to detect one or more missed assignments. The SRNode may consider the detection of a missed PDCCH assignment as a situation warranting a NACK in the bundling operation perhaps depending on the bundling operation used e.g. for HARQ ACK NACK of a given cell and or of a given subframe among other conditions for example.

Embodiments contemplate that UCI bundling may include spatial bundling in some embodiments perhaps for the PCell only spatial bundling per cell cell grouping bundling that may include bundling across SCells and or bundling across all serving cells and or subframe bundling.

In one or more embodiments there may be no uplink transmission opportunity for the UCI on the PCell or on a serving cell for a subframe. The SRNode may bundle the HARQ ACK NACK information for each configured serving cell for which bundling is applicable via one or more techniques either individually or in combination. In one or more embodiments the SRNode may spatially bundle HARQ ACK NACK information across multiple codewords of a same subframe for the PCell. Further in one or more embodiments the SRNode may spatially bundle HARQ ACK NACK information across multiple codewords of a same subframe for each configured SCells. Also embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may bundle HARQ ACK NACK information of a same subframe across multiple serving cells. Further one or more embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may bundle HARQ ACK NACK information across multiple subframes. Further in one or more embodiments bundling may be configured for HARQ ACK NACK information bits for serving cells. Also one or more embodiments contemplate that bundling may be configured for serving cells with subframe restrictions. Further in one or more embodiments bundling may be configured for HARQ ACK NACK information bits of a configured serving cell. And in one or more embodiments bundling may be configured for HARQ ACK NACK information bits of an activated serving cell.

Embodiments contemplate that at least one additional bit for the transmission of a Scheduling Request SR bit may be added to the bundling operation of one of the resulting information bit for example.

Embodiments contemplate deriving corresponding downlink assignments for some or all DL subframes associated with a UL subframe via one or more techniques either individually or in combination. In one or more embodiments downlink assignments may be based on the sum of the number of successfully decoded PDCCH or R PDCCH assignments dynamic scheduling and or the number of semi persistent downlink allocations. Further one or more embodiments contemplate that downlink assignments may be based on the sum of the number of signaled PDCCH or R PDCCH assignments possibly explicitly signaled in a successfully received DCI format dynamic scheduling and or the number of semi persistent downlink allocations.

Embodiments contemplate that a SRNode may compute one or more of the aforementioned sums. In one or more embodiments if the sums are unequal for a given uplink subframe among other conditions for example the SRNode may report NACK either for the bundled information for a serving cell or for the entire subframe. The RN may compute the sums for example if bundling is applied per subset of serving cells e.g. per type of serving cell.

In one or more embodiments if the SRNode is configured for UCI transmission on the PCell only among other conditions for example the SRNode may determine the number M of downlink assignments for DL subframes that may be associated with a single UL subframe to determine whether or not at least one downlink assignment is missed. The SRNode may perform a logical AND operation per codeword for a given serving cell across N subframes. N may be determined as a function of the SRNode partitioning such that N may represent the number of subframes since the last subframe for which the SRNode has an opportunity to transmit any UCI information in the uplink for the concerned serving cell. In one or more embodiments the result may be one HARQ ACK NACK bit per spatial layer. Alternatively or additionally the result may be a single bit for the layers. One or more embodiments contemplate that the resulting set of bits may be ordered and or coded for uplink transmission of a PUCCH format that can convey at least the resulting number of bits for example. Alternatively or additionally the resulting bits may be ordered based on the index of the serving cell e.g. increasing order of the configured serving cell identity. Embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may select a PUCCH resource using a suitable format for transmission of the resulting bits and or may perform the transmission in the next uplink subframe for which an uplink transmission is possible according to the subframe restriction for example.

Embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may apply bundling across some or all configured SCells. Alternatively or additionally one or embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may apply bundling across SCells that may not be configured for transmission on PUCCH and in some embodiments perhaps only across SCells that may not be configured for transmission on PUCCH.

In one or more embodiments perhaps if the SRNode is configured to transmit uplink feedback on a plurality of serving cells among other conditions for example spatial and or subframe bundling may be applied only to serving cells for which the uplink transmission is constrained by an SRNode subframe partitioning for the concerned cell and in some embodiments perhaps only to serving cells for which the uplink transmission is constrained by an SRNode subframe partitioning for the concerned cell. One or more embodiments contemplate that spatial and or subframe bundling may be applied to serving cells configured to transmit UCI on PUCCH and in some embodiments perhaps only to serving cells configured to transmit UCI on PUCCH.

Referring to a RN may be configured over the Un with at least two carriers. Carrier CC may be configured as the PCell with Un subframe configuration and Carrier CC may be configured as Scell with no Un subframe configuration. In some embodiments the configuration for UL may be performed asymmetrically to DL where UL resources may be allocated to PCell only and no UL resources may be allocated to Scell.

Embodiments contemplate that a PCell may be configured with Un subframe configuration of subframes configuration of 11000000. illustrates an example primary cell relay node as a SRNode and donor eNodeB subframe configuration pattern contemplated by embodiments. The availability of subframes for PCell transmission on DL and UL are illustrated in for one or more exemplary embodiments. In one or more embodiments the Scell without Un subframe configuration can schedule DL transmission on any subframe.

Considering the Pcell described previously and illustrated in the RN on the Scell may be scheduled with DL data on Scell in subframes . The corresponding HARQ ACK for those DL transmissions may be sent on the UL on subframes to maintain the n 4 HARQ ACK timing. The RN may not have an opportunity to transmit on UL until the next UL transmission opportunity on the PCell which occurs on subframe . As such the RN while receiving the DL data on the 4 subframes may first spatially bundle HARQ ACK for each codeword received in each of the subframes. The RN may bundle each HARQ ACK over time each HARQ ACK for every subframe received DL subframes received for 6 7 10 11 until the next UL transmission opportunity subframe . The UL UCI information transmitted in subframe from the RN may include a bundled combination of HARQ ACKs for each codeword for each of the 4 subframes.

One or more embodiments contemplate that the number of HARQ ACKs bundled may depend on DL transmission scheduling on the Scell and or the Un subframe configuration of the PCell. Some embodiments contemplate that the number of HARQ ACKs bundled can be expanded for instances of other Scell configurations as well.

Embodiments contemplate that the SRNode may group a plurality of HARQ ACK NACK bits perhaps to transmit UCI on PUCCH among other reasons for example. One or more embodiments contemplate that the HARQ ACK NACK bits may correspond to one or more transmissions received in one or more serving cells and or received in one or more subframes. In one or more embodiments the SRNode may transmit the group of bits by multiplexing the bits in a UL transmission by using PUCCH format . For example the SRNode may transmit the group of bits perhaps in some embodiments after a bundling operation is performed.

In one or more embodiments the SRNode may order the HARQ ACK NACK bits before encoding the bits in a PUCCH format with consideration for their corresponding serving cell as well as their corresponding subframe. The ordering of the bits for transmission in a specific uplink subframe using PUCCH format may be performed using a two dimensional matrix that may include the cell index and subframe index for some or each HARQ ACK bit. For example in the relay context the mapping and ordering of the bits may be similar to the usage of PUCCH format for TDD mode except that instead of being a function of the TDD configuration it may include a function of the Un subframe configuration for some or each serving cell. For example the first PUCCH format bit s may include the HARQ ACK NACK bit for a transmission received in the oldest subframe reported in the PUCCH transmission starting from HARQ ACK NACK bit s of the serving cell with the smallest configured serving cell identity e.g. servCellID followed by HARQ ACK NACK bits for subsequent subframes ordered in a similar manner and up to the most recent subframe for which the PUCCH transmission is reporting HARQ ACK NACK. For example perhaps no later than a subframe that may be a fixed amount of subframes before the transmission on the PUCCH where the fixed amount may correspond to a fixed processing time of e.g. 4 subframes ms .

One or more embodiments contemplate that the aforementioned techniques for the multiplexing of HARQ ACK NACK bits may be applied to CSI transmission. In addition embodiments contemplate that HARQ ACK NACK bits may be multiplexed with CSI bits where a predetermined order may be used. For example CSI bits may be appended to HARQ ACK NACK bits.

Embodiments contemplate that cross carrier scheduling may allow for one component carrier scheduling component carrier to schedule DL assignments for Physical Downlink Shared Channel PDSCH transmissions and UL grants for Physical Downlink Shared Channel PUSCH transmissions on another component carrier e.g. a scheduled component carrier .

Embodiments contemplate cross carrier scheduling from component carriers with subframe partitioning e.g. restriction . Further embodiments contemplate the support of D eNB cross carrier scheduling when the aggregated carriers assigned to the SRNode have different subframe restrictions among other conditions. For example one or more embodiments contemplate techniques that in relays may be used for cross carrier scheduling on a Un component carrier e.g. serving cell with Un subframe partitioning e.g. on an in band serving cell with a Un subframe configuration.

One or more embodiments contemplate that cross carrier scheduling on the DL control channel e.g. R PDCCH in relays may be supported using an indication field corresponding to the index of the scheduled component carrier within the DCI format transmitted on that control channel. In one or more embodiments a Carrier Indicator Field CIF may indicate for what cell the DCI format may be scheduling resources.

Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate cross carrier scheduling on the DL control channel e.g. R PDCCH in relays or PDCCH for WTRUs may be supported using an offset in the DCI format. The offset value may represent a timing offset indicative of the number of subframes between the subframe of the scheduled downlink transmission and the subframe in which the RN or WTRU may receive and or successfully decodes the DCI on the R PDCCH or PDCCH . In one or more embodiments the offset value may be included for DCI formats corresponding to a scheduled downlink transmission and or retransmission and in some embodiments may be included only for DCI formats corresponding to a scheduled downlink transmission and or retransmission.

By way of example and not limitation embodiments contemplate that perhaps as a consequence of the SRNode s subframe configuration among other conditions for example the SRNode may receive PDCCH or R PDCCH on a scheduling component carrier at subframe n but not at subframe n 1 n 2. In one or more embodiments the same PDCCH or R PDCCH may have been configured for cross carrier scheduling of the scheduled component carrier. Further in one or more embodiments the scheduled component carrier may have a different subframe configuration than that of the scheduling component carrier and may have its next downlink transmission opportunity at subframe n 2. The SRNode may receive on PDCCH or R PDCCH of the scheduling carrier in subframe n a DCI that may contain the CIF of the scheduled carrier and or an offset value in case of a DCI e.g. a DCI format or for a downlink assignment for the timing of the corresponding downlink transmission by way of example and not limitation 2 subframe ms if the total distance is signaled or a codepoint if a table is used .

Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate cross carrier scheduling on the DL control channel e.g. R PDCCH in relays may be supported using a timing offset similar to the one described previously and may be used to schedule uplink transmissions in the scheduled carrier.

By way example and not limitation embodiments contemplate that in a processing time for FDD of 4 subframes e.g. 4 ms from the reception of an uplink grant until the corresponding uplink transmission is performed the SRNode may receive a grant on the scheduling component carrier at subframe n 1 for a scheduled uplink transmission for subframe n 5 on the scheduled component carrier. In one or more embodiments the offset may be specified as the total distance between the subframe of the reception of the DCI and the subframe of the corresponding uplink transmission or the same distance less a fixed processing time e.g. 4 ms processing time . Further one or more embodiments contemplate that a table of codepoints for offsets may be defined as a function of the subframe configuration of the scheduled carrier.

One or more embodiments contemplate that an offset may be included in the DCI format. The offset value may represent a timing offset indicative of a number of subframes between the subframe of the scheduled uplink transmission and the subframe in which the SRNode receives and or successfully decodes the DCI on the DL control channel e.g. R PDCCH in relays. In one or more embodiments the offset value may be included for DCI formats corresponding to a scheduled downlink transmission and or retransmission and in some embodiments may be included only for DCI formats corresponding to a scheduled downlink transmission and or retransmission.

By way of example and not limitation embodiments contemplate that perhaps as a consequence of the SRNode s subframe configuration the SRNode may receive PDCCH or R PDCCH on a scheduling component carrier at subframe n but not at subframe n 1 n 2. The same PDCCH or R PDCCH may have been configured for cross carrier scheduling of the scheduled component carrier. The scheduled component carrier may have a different subframe configuration than that of the scheduling component carrier and may have its next uplink transmission opportunity at subframe n 5. The SRNode may receive on PDCCH or R PDCCH of the scheduling carrier in subframe n a DCI that may contain the CIF of the scheduled carrier as well as an offset value in case of a DCI e.g. a DCI format for an uplink grant for the timing of the corresponding uplink transmission e.g. either 5 subframe ms if the total distance is signaled or 1 subframe ms if the processing time is excluded from the offset .

Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate implicit offset timing. One or more embodiments contemplate that the offset value may be a function of the SRNode subframe partitioning of the scheduled component carrier. For example the subframe to which the signaled DCI is applicable may be the next subframe for which a downlink transmission may be received by the SRNode from the D eNB on the scheduled carrier or the next subframe for which an uplink transmission may be performed by the SRNode on the scheduled carrier. For example the signaled DCI may be applicable to the first subframe after a predetermined number of subframes. For example signaled DCI may be applicable to the first subframe after the processing time allowed for the corresponding control signaling e.g. 4 subframes or ms for the uplink for FDD . One or more embodiments contemplate that the predefined or predetermined number of subframes may be a function of the subframe number in which the DCI e.g. UL grant is received and in some embodiments the subframe configuration of one or more of the scheduling cell and or the cell being scheduled.

Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate blind decoding. One or more embodiments contemplate that a SRNode may perform blind decoding attempts such that the SRNode may decode multiple DCI formats on the scheduling carrier in a given subframe. The number of attempts may be a function of the subframe configuration of the scheduled carriers. For example the SRNode may determine a maximum number of decoding attempts based at least in part on some or each scheduled carrier of the number of possible DCIs that may be received. If there is no subframe partitioning no additional blind decoding attempt may be performed. In one or more embodiment perhaps if the scheduled carrier may not be scheduled for downlink and or uplink transmissions in one or more consecutive subframes starting from a fixed number X of subframes e.g. X ranging from 0 up to a predetermined number of subframes for processing time following this subframe perhaps due to a restriction of the scheduling carrier s subframe partitioning additional blind decoding attempts may be performed to include possible DCIs for those subframes. For example for downlink DCIs X may be equal to 0. Also by way of example for uplink DCIs X may be equal to 4. Alternatively or additionally X may be equal to a maximum number of subframes that may be addressed by the explicit offset value range that may be signaled in the corresponding DCIs.

In one or more embodiments the SRNode may stop decoding attempts of the DL control channel e.g. R PDCCH for relays until it has exhausted the search space and or until the SRNode has decoded a number of DCI equal to the number of possible transmissions that may be performed across subframes determined using at least one of the above guidelines whichever comes first.

In one or more embodiments a scheduling component carrier may be restricted due to subframe configuration for transmission to SRNode on subframe n to schedule on the scheduled component carrier. The scheduling component carrier may be allowed to transmit to SRNode on subframes n n 1 and n 2. The scheduling component carrier may on its DL control channel e.g. R PDCCH for relays transmitted at subframe n include 3 instances of DCI with CIF for the scheduled component carrier along with offset value of 0 1 and 2 respectively to indicate the subframe for which the DCI may be applied.

Embodiments contemplate that the number of DCIs that can be scheduled for UL for example DCI format and or for DL for example DCI format may be limited by the allowed DL control channel space e.g. R PDCCH space for relays. In one or more embodiments blind decoding may be performed until the DL control channel search space is exhausted.

Embodiments contemplate the determination of UL HARQ process identity. In one or more embodiment perhaps when cross carrier scheduling is not used the uplink HARQ processes may be sequentially assigned to subframes configured for the uplink transmissions to the D eNB based on the subframe partitioning for example.

Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate that to support cross carrier scheduling for example on the DL control channel e.g. R PDCCH for relays the SRNode may determine the identity of the uplink process. In one or more embodiments the identity of the uplink process may be determined based on the subframe configuration of the scheduled component carrier e.g. using a relation n 4 k perhaps for FDD where k may be based on the subframe partitioning of the scheduled carrier and in particular for cross carrier scheduling of retransmissions.

Embodiments contemplate cross carrier scheduling from a carrier without subframe restriction. Further one or more embodiments contemplate cross carrier scheduling from component carriers without subframe partitioning as a scheduling carrier. For example the SRNode may be configured with any serving cell that does not have subframe partitioning such as an out of band serving cell in the context of relays.

In one or more embodiments the SRNode may be configured with an Scell that may not have subframe partitioning e.g. restrictions as a scheduling carrier for the Pcell which may have subframe partitioning. This may allow for use of R PDCCH space to be limited which may release the R PDCCH for use for more PDSCH data for example.

Alternatively or additionally the embodiments described herein regarding cross carrier scheduling in the context of relays from a component carrier with Un subframe partitioning may be applied to cross carrier scheduling with PDCCH. For example the embodiments described herein for determining the identity of a UL HARQ process when the scheduled component carrier may be restricted by a Un subframe partitioning may be applied to cross carrier scheduling with PDCCH.

In light of the descriptions herein and referring to embodiments contemplate a node where the node may be in communication with a wireless communication system. At the node may be configured at least in part to communicate with at least a first serving cell and a second serving cell. At the node may be configured to receive a first subframe partitioning configuration for the first serving cell. At the node may be configured to receive a second subframe partitioning configuration for the second serving cell. At the node may be configured to apply at least a part of the first subframe partitioning configuration and at least a part of the second subframe partitioning configuration to at least one of the first serving cell or the second serving cell. Embodiments contemplate that the first serving cell may be a primary serving cell Pcell and the second serving cell may be a secondary serving cell Scell . In one or more embodiments the first subframe partitioning configuration may be different than the second subframe partitioning configuration.

Alternatively or additionally embodiments further contemplate that at the node may be further configured to apply a union of the at least part of the first subframe partitioning configuration and the at least part of the second subframe partitioning configuration to the at least one of the first serving cell or the second serving cell. Alternatively or additionally at embodiments contemplate that the node may be further configured to apply an intersection of the at least part of the first subframe partitioning configuration and the at least part of the second subframe partitioning configuration to the at least one of the first serving cell or the second serving cell.

Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate that at the node may be further configured to limit the application of the at least part of the first subframe partitioning configuration and the at least part of the second subframe partitioning configuration to an uplink UL subframe configuration of the at least one of the first serving cell or the second serving cell. Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate that at the node may be further configured to limit the application of the at least part of the first subframe partitioning configuration and the at least part of the second subframe partitioning configuration to a downlink DL subframe configuration of the at least one of the first serving cell or the second serving cell.

Referring to alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate that at least a part of the first subframe partitioning configuration and the at least a part of the second subframe partitioning configuration respectively include uplink UL subframe partitioning configurations and at the node may be further configured to apply the respective UL subframe partitioning configurations to an UL subframe configuration of the Pcell. Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate that at the first subframe partitioning configuration and the second subframe partitioning configuration may be provided from a second node via a radio resource control RRC signal the second node being in communication with the wireless communication system and the second node being at least one of an evolved Node B eNB or a donor evolved Node B DeNB . One or more embodiments contemplate that the node may be a relay node. Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate that at the node may be further configured to communicate with the at least one of the eNB or DeNB via a Un interface. Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate that the node may be a wireless transmit receive unit WTRU . One or more embodiments contemplate that at the WTRU may be further configured to operate in a Time Division Duplexing mode.

Referring to alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate a node that may be in communication with a wireless communication system. At the node may be configured at least in part to communicate with at least a first serving cell and a second serving cell where the first serving cell may be a primary serving cell Pcell and the second serving cell may be a secondary serving cell Scell . At embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured to receive a first subframe partitioning configuration for the Pcell. At embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured to receive a second subframe partitioning configuration for the Scell. At embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured to transmit at least a portion of uplink control information UCI via a subframe of a Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH of the Scell based on a condition where the condition may be based at least in part on at least one of the first subframe partitioning configuration or the second subframe partitioning configuration. One or more embodiments contemplate that the condition may include the first subframe partitioning configuration for the Pcell having a restricted uplink in a subframe corresponding to the subframe of the Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH of the Scell.

Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate that at the node may be further configured to transmit the at least a portion of the UCI to at least one of an evolved Node B eNB or a donor evolved Node B DeNB .

Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate a node where the node may be in communication with a wireless communication system. At embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured at least in part to communicate with at least a first serving cell and a second serving cell where the first serving cell may be a primary serving cell Pcell and the second serving cell may be a secondary serving cell Scell . At embodiments contemplate that that node may be configured to receive a subframe partitioning configuration for the Pcell. At embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured to transmit at least a portion of uplink control information UCI via a subframe of a Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH of the Scell where the Scell may have no subframe partitioning configuration.

Referring to alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate a node where the node may be in communication with a wireless communication system. At embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured at least in part to communicate with a first component carrier and a second component carrier. At embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured to receive a first subframe partitioning configuration for the first component carrier. At embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured to receive a second subframe partitioning configuration for the second component carrier. One or more embodiments contemplate that the first subframe partitioning configuration may be different than the second subframe partitioning configuration. At embodiments also contemplate that the node may be configured to implement cross carrier scheduling between the first component carrier and the second component carrier utilizing a timing offset value.

Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate that the node may be further configured at to receive downlink control information DCI where the timing offset value mat be provided within the DCI. At embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured to implement the cross carrier scheduling on a downlink DL control channel where the timing offset value may represent a number of subframes between a subframe of a scheduled downlink transmission and a subframe in which the node received the DCI.

Alternatively or additionally embodiments contemplate that the node may be configured at to receive downlink control information DCI on a downlink DL control channel where the timing offset value may be provided within the DCI. One or more embodiments contemplate that the timing offset value may represent a number of subframes between a subframe of a scheduled uplink transmission and a subframe in which the node received the DCI. One or more embodiments contemplate that the DL control channel may be at least one of a Relay Physical Downlink Control Channel R PDCCH or a Physical Downlink Control Channel PDCCH .

Contemplated embodiments may be based on the 3GPP LTE technology and related specifications and may be equally applicable to any wireless technology implementing aggregation of carriers with different time interval e.g. subframe configurations such as but not limited to other 3GPP technology based on WCDMA HSPA HSUPA and HSDPA. For example WTRUs connected to a relay may also be considered as a SRNode for which the relay may be considered as an eNB. Embodiments may be used individually or in any combination thereof.

Although features and elements are described above in particular combinations one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that each feature or element can be used alone or in any combination with the other features and elements. In addition the methods described herein may be implemented in a computer program software or firmware incorporated in a computer readable medium for execution by a computer or processor. Examples of computer readable media include electronic signals transmitted over wired or wireless connections and computer readable storage media. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a register cache memory semiconductor memory devices magnetic media such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical media and optical media such as CD ROM disks and digital versatile disks DVDs . A processor in association with software may be used to implement a radio frequency transceiver for use in a WTRU UE terminal base station RNC or any host computer.

