---

title: Methods and apparatus for providing an incentivized cooperative system for accessing radio access networks
abstract: Methods and apparatus are disclosed for providing improved service to wireless devices in a radio access network (RAN). This is accomplished through affording cooperative arrangements wherein a helper mobile device having a good link to the RAN assists another mobile device having a poorer quality link to access the RAN, thereby offering improved service. The arrangement includes an out of band link between the mobile devices that does not use the same radio access technology as the RAN. Additionally, an incentive scheme provides credit to users of the assisting devices that is configured to encourage and sustain future cooperative arrangements. Credit may be transferred from a user of the assisted device to the user of the helper device as compensation. Further, an operator of the RAN may also inject credit to users of helper devices to incentivize and sustain future cooperative arrangements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09094807&OS=09094807&RS=09094807
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09094807
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120523
---
The present disclosure relates generally to wireless communication systems and more specifically to methods and apparatus for providing an incentivized cooperative system for accessing radio access networks that provides incentives for encouraging cooperation to access the radio access networks.

In wireless communication systems the available capacity for a mobile wireless device to access a radio access network RAN can be limited at times due to poor channel conditions limited transmission power and base station scheduling constraints. When the available capacity is so limited this situation may give rise to applications or operations on a mobile device that may require much higher throughput than a regular best effort RAN bearer can provide to that mobile device thus diminishing user experience.

In some known wireless systems such as peer to peer systems it is known to allow one mobile device to utilize other devices in an assisting function to provide better throughput and capacity to either other peer devices or a base station. These systems however are limited to the use of same radio access technology RAT between all devices. Thus in certain situations access to a RAN may be limited by conditions affecting all users of the same RAT for example. Additionally in known systems where cooperative access allows one user to assist another user the capacity of the assisting user device to access the RAN may be limited due to sharing its resources with another user device. As incentive to encourage cooperative use and sharing of resources providing compensation to assisting users is beneficial to ensure the success of such schemes.

Accordingly it is desirable to provide a schema to better increase individual users mobile device s RAN access throughput through cooperation with other user devices that also increases cell capacity as well to provide incentivizing schemes to encourage such cooperative access from both users and operators perspectives.

According to an aspect a method for providing improved service to a wireless device in a radio access network is disclosed. The method includes determining one or more helper wireless devices capable of assisting the wireless device to improve radio access network service to the wireless device via a respective link of the one or more helper devices with the radio access network. Further the method includes selecting at least one helper device of the determined one or more helper wireless devices to assist the wireless device in obtaining improved service from the radio access network. Additionally the method includes establishing a wireless link between the wireless device and the selected at least one helper device allowing the wireless device to communicate with the network via the at least one helper device wherein the wireless link is an out of band wireless link not communicating within the radio access network. In addition a transfer of credit is signaled to the selected at least one helper device to compensate the helper device for providing the wireless device access to the radio access network.

According to another aspect an apparatus for providing improved service to a wireless device in a radio access network disclosed. The apparatus includes at least one processor configured to determine one or more helper wireless devices capable of assisting the wireless device to improve radio access network service to the wireless device via a respective link of the one or more helper devices with the radio access network. Additionally the processor is configured to select at least one helper device of the determined one or more helper wireless devices to assist the wireless device in obtaining improved service from the radio access network. Still further the processor is configured to establish a wireless link between the wireless device and the selected at least one helper device allowing the wireless device to communicate with the network via the at least one helper device wherein the wireless link is an out of band wireless link not communicating within the radio access network. The at least one processor is also configured to signal a transfer of credit to the selected at least one helper device to compensate the helper device for providing the wireless device access to the radio access network. The apparatus also includes a memory in communication with the at least one processor.

In another aspect an apparatus is disclosed for providing improved service to a wireless device in a radio access network. The apparatus includes means for determining one or more helper wireless devices capable of assisting the wireless device to improve radio access network service to the wireless device via a respective link of the one or more helper devices with the radio access network. In addition the apparatus includes means for selecting at least one helper device of the determined one or more helper wireless devices to assist the wireless device in obtaining improved service from the radio access network. Further the apparatus includes means for establishing a wireless link between the wireless device and the selected at least one helper device allowing the wireless device to communicate with the network via the at least one helper device wherein the wireless link is an out of band wireless link not communicating within the radio access network. Finally the apparatus includes means for signaling a transfer of credit to the selected at least one helper device to compensate the helper device for providing the wireless device access to the radio access network.

According to another aspect a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium is disclosed. The medium includes code for causing a computer to determine one or more helper wireless devices in a radio access network capable of assisting a wireless device in a radio access network to obtain improved radio access network service for the wireless device via a respective link of the one or more helper devices with the radio access network. Also the medium includes code for causing a computer to select at least one helper device of the determined one or more helper wireless devices to assist the wireless device in obtaining improved service from the radio access network. Further the medium includes code for causing a computer to establish a wireless link between the wireless device and the selected at least one helper device allowing the wireless device to communicate with the network via the at least one helper device wherein the wireless link is an out of band wireless link not communicating within the radio access network. In addition the medium includes code for causing a computer to signal a transfer of credit to the selected at least one helper device to compensate the helper device for providing the wireless device access to the radio access network.

In another aspect the present disclosure provides a method for providing improved service to a wireless device in a radio access network. The disclosed method includes receiving a request from another primary wireless device for improved service from a radio access network by using a radio access network connection of the wireless device. Next the method includes establishing an out of band wireless link between the wireless device and the primary wireless device allowing the primary wireless device to utilize the radio access network connection of the wireless device for access to the radio access network. Further the method includes receiving a transfer of credit from at least one of the primary device and an operator of the radio access network for providing the primary device access to the radio access network.

In another disclosed aspect an apparatus provides improved service to a wireless device in a radio access network by including means for receiving a request from another primary wireless device for improved service from a radio access network by using a radio access network connection of the wireless device. The apparatus also includes means for establishing an out of band wireless link between the wireless device and the primary wireless device allowing the primary wireless device to utilize the radio access network connection of the wireless device for access to the radio access network. The apparatus also includes means for receiving a transfer of credit from at least one of the primary device and an operator of the radio access network for providing the primary device access to the radio access network.

According to still another disclosed aspect an apparatus for providing improved service to a wireless device in a radio access network is disclosed. The apparatus includes at least one processor that is configured to receive a request from another primary wireless device for improved service from a radio access network by using a radio access network connection of the wireless device. The at least one processor is further configured to establish an out of band wireless link between the wireless device and the primary wireless device allowing the primary wireless device to utilize the radio access network connection of the wireless device for access to the radio access network. Further the at least one processor is configured to receive a transfer of credit from at least one of the primary device and an operator of the radio access network for providing the primary device access to the radio access network. Finally the apparatus includes a memory in communication with the at least one processor.

In yet another aspect a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium is disclose where the medium includes code for causing a computer to receive a request in a wireless device from another primary wireless device for improved service from a radio access network by using a radio access network connection of the wireless device. The medium also includes code for causing a computer to establish an out of band wireless link between the wireless device and the primary wireless device allowing the primary wireless device to utilize the radio access network connection of the wireless device for access to the radio access network. Furthermore the medium includes code for causing a computer to receive a transfer of credit from at least one of the primary device and an operator of the radio access network for providing the primary device access to the radio access network.

Furthermore according to another aspect a method for providing improved service to a wireless device in a radio access network is disclosed where the method includes determining when a first wireless device is initiating an upgraded connection with the radio access network by using at least one second assisting wireless device assisting the first wireless device in at least one cooperative session. Additionally the method includes determining an incentive credit to transfer to the assisting second wireless device based at least on energy costs incurred by the second wireless device for the at least one cooperative session.

According to yet another aspect an apparatus for providing improved service to a wireless device in a radio access network is disclosed. The apparatus includes means for determining when a first wireless device is initiating an upgraded connection with the radio access network by using at least one second wireless device assisting the first wireless device in at least one cooperative session. Additionally the apparatus includes means for determining an incentive credit to transfer to the assisting second wireless device based at least on energy costs incurred by the second wireless device for the at least one cooperative session.

According to another aspect an apparatus for providing improved service to a wireless device in a radio access network is disclosed. The apparatus includes at least one processor configured to determine when a first wireless device initiates an upgraded connection with the radio access network by using at least one second wireless device assisting the first wireless device in at least one cooperative session. The at least one processor is also configured to determine an incentive credit to transfer to the assisting second wireless device based at least on energy costs incurred by the second wireless device for the at least one cooperative session. Further the apparatus includes a memory in communication with the at least one processor.

According to yet one more aspect a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium is disclosed the medium including code for causing a computer to determine when a first wireless device initiates an upgraded connection with a radio network by using at least one second wireless device assisting the first wireless device in at least one cooperative session for accessing the radio network. Further the medium includes code for causing a computer to determine an incentive credit to transfer to the assisting second wireless device based at least on energy costs incurred by the second wireless device for the at least one cooperative session.

The present description discloses methods and apparatus for providing a schema to better increase an individual users mobile device s RAN access throughput through cooperation with other user devices which also increases cell capacity as well as to provide incentivizing schemes to encourage such cooperative access from both users and operators perspectives.

It is first noted that the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure a particular mobile s RAN access capacity may be increased by providing mobile to mobile cooperation for RAN access. In particular a mobile device termed herein as a primary or assisted device seeking to increase capacity is linked to another mobile device with greater capacity termed a helper device which in turn provides its resources i.e. connection to the RAN to primary mobile device to provide greater capacity. An example of a cooperative system to implement this aspect is illustrated by .

As shown in the system includes at least one operator network . Although shown representationally as a cloud in the network or networks may include one or more base stations NodeB s eNodeB s or another type of radio access point s for access to a RAN or RANs. The network also may include network controllers backhaul backbone and other links such as IP or Internet links as well as the operator s core networks. Furthermore the represented cloud is not limited to merely one RAN or RAT and operator but may be considered also to include multiple types of RANs and or RATs as well as multiple operators of corresponding RANs.

System as illustrated includes a primary mobile device that is communication with at least one RAN of the network via a direct radio link . The mobile device and any other mobile devices may also be referred to as a mobile terminal user equipment UE a wireless communication device terminal access terminal or some other terminology dependent on the particular RAT.

In an aspect it is assumed that the link between a primary mobile device and the at least one RAN is determined to be of poor capacity or limited transmission power. This determination may be effected within mobile device or within the network and communicated to the mobile device by the network. In such case the present methods and apparatus serve to increase capacity for the mobile device through the assistance of another mobile device having a better RAN link to either the same RAN or a different RAN shown collectively as network as explained above .

As an illustration of the presently disclosed methods and apparatus for increasing capacity through cooperative assistance it is assumed that a potential helper mobile device enjoys good channel conditions and transmission power via its respective link with the RAN s . In a cooperative helper situation the primary device may link with a helper device via another wireless link to allow the primary device to utilize the helper device s link to the RAN . In an aspect the helper device allows or grants permission to the primary for usage of its link . This permission or allowance may be actively granted by a user of device in one example but could also be implemented with an automated type of permission that is granted as a default to any primary device seeking assistance. If primary device utilizes the RAN link of helper device with additional link the actual data traffic will travel via illustrated path . Further in an example the wireless link is out of band link meaning that the radio technology utilized for link is different from links and .

In operation of system mobile device may be configured to select at least one other mobile device among many available other mobile devices based on their RAN access link conditions to the desired RAN using that mobile device s RAN access link e.g. helper and its corresponding link . The selection may be made according to various factors and information received either from another mobile device or the RAN. In a particular aspect of how this cooperative system may function mobile devices in the system such as and may be configured to exchange RAN access link information with each other including the data rate channel condition delay and delay jitter concerning their RAN access links. A mobile device such as primary device may be configured to assess the merit of using another mobile as a helper to access the RAN based on those collected RAN access link information. The merit of using a helper s RAN access link is a based on the combined factors of the out of band link e.g. and the helper s RAN access link e.g. . Additionally the primary device may be configured to find the best helper device according to the assessment of the merits among multiple potential helper devices and their associated RAN access links .

In another aspect the primary device e.g. may be further configured to assess the merits of choosing to access the RAN through another helper device s RAN link and the direct link over simply using its own RAN link . In this scenario the primary device is configured choose to access the RAN through the best helper s RAN access link e.g. if the merit of using a helper s RAN access link outperforms the merit of using the primary device s own direct RAN access link. Otherwise the primary device would simply use its own direct RAN access link for RAN access. In a further aspect this choice of helper devices may be made periodically or upon triggering events to ensure good utilization of cooperation.

Additionally it is axiomatic that link would be of greater capacity than the link between primary device and RAN for the helper cooperative arrangement to be worthwhile. Wireless link which is an out of band link i.e. different band or RAT from the RAN s between the primary device and the helper device may comprise a wireless technology such as IEEE 802.11 WiFi as one example but may also include any other suitable wireless technologies having efficacious data rates capacity and throughput.

According to yet another aspect it is noted that the information exchanged between devices in system may be transmitted and received per device e.g. or nodes in network . This information may include the data rate delay and throughput per power efficiency of the radio access links e.g. of both the device itself and the other device with which this device is exchanging information. Additionally other information may include the data rate delay and throughput per power efficiency of the wireless link e.g. between the device and the other device with which the device is exchanging information. Further other information that may be transmitted and received between devices or nodes in system includes the radio access network and cell identifiers of the device itself and the other device with which this device is exchanging information.

It is further noted that although a single wireless link is shown between devices and this is not limiting. The path for access of a primary device to a RAN may consist of multiple links i.e. multiple helper devices along the path to the RAN or parallel links i.e. two or more helper devices operate in parallel where the primary device has multiple out of band wireless links to multiple helper devices each accessing the RAN directly .

As illustrated primary device may include within each processing and RF chain a transmit data processor for receiving input data as well as control information and other information for transmission and processing through various functions such as encoding or encrypting the data interleaving or interlacing. The sources of the input data and control information may be one or more of a number devices not shown within device such as application processors not shown as well as digital signal processors such processor . The data may include not only data to be transmitted but also control information including the information discussed before concerning the implementation of helper device selection.

Additionally data and information from the TX processors is modulated by respective modulators and delivered to RF transmit receive circuits for wireless transmission of data via respective one or more antennas . As illustrated transmissions from transmitter receiver are to the RAN whereas transmissions from transmitter receiver are to another node or device such as helper device .

The transmitter receivers also receive wireless transmissions respectively from the RAN or another node or device e.g. . The received transmissions are demodulated by demodulators and then processed e.g. decoded etc. by receive data processors for use by the DSP or other processors not shown .

It is noted that helper device has a similar configuration to primary device as either device could be configured to be a helper or primary device. Thus the processing and RF chains include complementary transmit data processors modulators transmit receive RF circuits with respective antennas transmit receiver circuits demodulators and receive data processors . Furthermore device includes at least one processor such as a DSP as one example. Each of the processors may also have an associated memory device that is configured to store computer readable instructions or code accessible and executable by the processors .

Additionally as mentioned before there may be multiple parallel transmit receive chains used for respective RATs utilized by devices or combined processing that provides data to multiple transmit receive circuits e.g. that operate according to respective RATs. It is also noted that the present apparatus and methods may be applied in devices operable with one or more RATs such as LTE LTE Advanced 3GPP based systems GSM UMTS HSPA CDMA 1xEVDO W CDMA other 3G and 4G technologies IEEE 802.11 WiFi WiFi direct WPAN IEEE 802.15 WiMax IEEE 802.16 WiGig MBWA IEEE 802.20 cognitive radio IEEE 802.22 Bluetooth or various other mesh network systems such as IEEE 802.11s as merely a few examples.

In operation when the quality of the wireless link between the primary device and the RAN is poor device may determine and select a helper device e.g. with a better wireless link e.g. to the RAN to assist in increasing throughput and capacity as discussed in connection with . This is accomplished by the further utilization of an out of band link between the two devices and . In an example the data path for the primary device to access the RAN during a helping session would be via modem or processing and RF chain over out band link to modem or processing and RF chain . The processor may then direct that data for primary device is transmitted and received via modem or processing and RF chain via an in band link having superior quality to link to access the RAN . Data received from the RAN at helper device for primary device is then routed via and out of band link to primary device .

After the determination in block flow proceeds to block wherein the device selects at least one helper device of the determined one or more helper wireless devices to assist the wireless device in obtaining improved service from the radio access network via the one or more helper devices. As discussed previously this selection process may be based on a comparison of which helper device or devices provide the best throughput or capacity but is not necessarily limited to such. For example additional factors may include incentives provided or costs imposed to either the primary or helper device and thus selection may also be based on which helper selection provides the best economic outcome as will be discussed in more detail later. Additionally the selection may include sending a request message to the one or more helper devices for cooperation and receipt of acknowledgement replies for those helper devices available to help prior to starting a cooperative helping session.

Method further includes the establishing of at least one wireless link between the wireless device and the selected at least one helper device allowing the wireless device to communicate with the radio access network via the at least one helper device as indicated in block wherein the wireless link is an out of band wireless link not communicating within the radio access network e.g. wireless link in or in . In this manner the primary device may utilize another wireless link and RAT to communicate with the at least one helper such that RAN resources are not used for the communication there between.

Further method may also include a further alternative process of directing or engendering credit transfer as a means for incentivizing a user of the selected helper device. This credit transfer which will be discussed more fully later allows a helper device to be compensated for allowing the primary device to use its RAN link resources. In particular method may include signaling or directing Signaling a transfer of credit to the selected at least one helper device to compensate the helper device for providing the wireless device access to the radio access network as illustrated in block . The process in block may entail the primary device directing initiating and or signaling the transfer of credit from an account associated with the primary wireless device to the selected at least one helper device or a transfer of injected credit from at least one operator to the selected at least one helper device or both. In an aspect the operator may solely perform the credit transfers where the operator transfers credit from the primary device s account to the helper device s account. Furthermore in an alternative the primary device may not actively cause the credit transfer to occur. Rather the operator may detect cooperative helping sessions and then determine and initiate credit transfer to the helper device including both transfers from the primary device s account and incentivizing credit from the operator.

According to one example the processes of method may executed by primary devices or . More specifically method may be implemented by a processor within the primary device such as processor or similar device directing the operation of the cooperative helping session as well as processing and RF chains e.g. that carry out the particular transmission and reception of data and information with the helpers e.g. over the out of band link e.g. .

In response to the request in block the process in block provides that a helper device may then establish at least one out of band wireless link between the wireless device and the another wireless device allowing the another wireless device to utilize the radio access network connection of the wireless device for access to the radio access network. Process may include establishing a direct out of band wireless link from the helping device to a primary device such as illustrated by links and . Nonetheless process may also encompass a situation where one helper device is relaying data and information to another helper device in a concatenated fashion as part of a relay or mesh providing RAN access to a primary device.

Further method includes receiving a transfer of credit from at least one of the primary device and an operator of the radio access network for providing the primary device access to the radio access network as illustrated by block . As will be discussed in more detail later the transferred credit may include funds from a primary user s account to the helper s account to compensate for the cooperative helping session or an injection of funds from an operator to the account of the helping device to incentivize or motivate further cooperative behavior or both. It is noted the process of block may be effected by processor or similar device or alternatively through the use of an application or application programming interface in the helper device to receive or at least indicate receipt of micropayment transfers of credit from the operator of the RAN to the account of the helper device and or payments from the user of the primary device via the RAN operator s for the cooperative session.

According to one example the processes of method may executed by helper devices or . More specifically method may be implemented by a processor within the primary device such as processor or similar device directing the operation of the cooperative helping session as well as processing and RF chains e.g. that carry out the particular transmission and reception of data and information with the primary device e.g. over the out of band link e.g. as well as communication with the RAN over an in band link e.g. .

In another aspect an incentive system may be implemented in conjunction with the systems of either or such that a RAN operator has incentives to support the disclosed cooperative arrangement and also to encourage and sustain cooperative behavior of users of helper devices and engender economic viability of cooperative arrangements. First as mentioned above both operators and users benefit in that the effective cell capacity for a particular cell of the RAN is increased with the arrangements of as well as increasing individual users throughput. Notwithstanding this benefit the present disclosure provides apparatus and methods to provide a further incentive system that may involve the RAN provider wherein a mechanism is provided to allow an operator to incentivize cooperation with credit of monies or minutes or other pecuniary incentives hereinafter referred to simply as credit .

The presently disclosed incentive system functions to provide one or more of flow of credit between the operator and helper devices a primary device and the operator and primary and helper devices to incentivize cooperative behavior. The incentive system includes at least two features.

A first feature is that a primary device or an operator or both may provide a certain amount of credit to a helper device as compensation for usage of the helper s RAN link. In the case of the primary device for example this credit may be based on a helping cost perceived by the helping device or user of the helping device . In another example the RAN operator may provide a certain amount of credit to a helper based on the extra revenue harvested by the operator due to cooperative sessions i.e. for the extra revenue paid by the primary device for the increased throughput service .

In a particular example of how to implement this first feature the incentive system may include at least two fund credit flows. One credit flow is a credit e.g. money funds transferred from a primary device to its helper device to compensate the helper s energy cost to operate on the RAN link and the out of band link. The other credit flow may be another credit type e.g. minutes transfer from the RAN operator to the cooperative session s helper device. This second transfer could serve to assist the helper device to potentially pay for a future cooperation as a helper device as a further incentive or simply for extra minutes for the user of the helper device.

According to one example the credit transfer from the operator to the cooperative session s helper device may be configured such that the amount of fund credit transfer is less than the extra revenue the operator obtains through the cooperative session to provide incentive for the operator to offer these sessions. Additionally the fund credit transfer may also be configured such that the amount of the transfer is larger than an opportunity cost which will be more fully defined and discussed later.

A second feature of the present incentive scheme may also include a credit unification mechanism to unify or normalize the merit of energy consumption perceived by mobile devices and the merit of air resources perceived by the operator. In particular it is noted that although the amount of time utilized by the helper mobile device in assisting could be used for determining the merit for compensation credit another way to judge merit is based on energy consumption. Thus in one embodiment the amount of fund credit transfer may be based on sufficiently compensating a helper device for the additional energy spent at the helper. In an aspect the unit of the credit may be normalized to the energy unit of joules but is not limited to solely this particular unit of energy. Thus the credit may be calculated to be the number of joules that the helper device expends in participating in a cooperative session. In one exemplary embodiment the credit could be calculated to be the amount of joules the helper device spends to utilize the extra airtime harvested by the operator due to the cooperation. That is since a primary device is requesting and using additional data resources in a cell of the RAN the operator will charge for this upgraded service.

In an aspect it is contemplated that either the primary device could be configured to compensate the helper directly or the primary device could trigger the particular RAN operator to provide the credit which could therein debit the primary device user s account for example . By tying the costs to an energy unit in this second feature the present scheme provides for normalization and unification of the unit basis between the cost to help expended by the helper device and the benefits to operator of the overall capacity increase.

Furthermore it may be advantageous to have the operator s involvement in the incentive system for to ensure success in varied situations. If the channel conditions of mobile devices vary with sufficient diversity due to mobility the credit transfer among cooperative devices would be sufficient to sustain cooperation behaviors since a device that cooperates can always finds other suitable devices to help when its channel is in poor condition. However when some devices consistently experience poorer channel conditions and other devices consistently experience good channel conditions there will not be enough incentives to continue cooperation because good conditioned mobiles cannot get reciprocal help. Hence if an operator interjects to fund those helpers who could not get reciprocal help due to their consistently good channel conditions.

Accordingly another consideration in the present incentive scheme is opportunity cost as briefly mentioned before. The opportunity cost is defined as the gap or difference between the amount of credit that a helper mobile device obtains in a previous cooperation session and the amount of credit that the helper device has to pay to get help in a primary device role from another mobile device acting as helper in a subsequent helping session. As an illustration show two helping sessions that demonstrate the concept of opportunity cost. In the situation shown in it is assumed that mobile device is a very good conditioned mobile device acting as a helper device that helps a poorly conditioned mobile device to access a RAN via its RAN access link . As mobile device has a very good link the user of device may receive only a small amount of fund credit transfer due to the small cost to mobile device for providing help to mobile device . For purposes of this illustration it is assumed that the cost to pay for the helping session in the scenario of is a value C. 

In a second scenario shown in when mobile device is in a poor condition for access to RAN it may request cooperation from mobile device in a subsequent helping session. If the condition of RAN access link of mobile device is inferior to the RAN access link from the past session however the credit that mobile device obtained in the previous session e.g. C in the scenario in may be insufficient to pay for the current cooperation helping session as the difference in the RAN access link conditions between these two mobiles may be less than that in the previous session. It is assumed that higher cost for the session of is C which is greater than C. The opportunity cost is the difference of C and C .e.g. C C . Thus in this situation since there is an incurred opportunity cost not a gain to device this will give rise to disincentive for the user of mobile device to offer further cooperation in the helping session as there is a net cost not gain. When opportunity cost is considered it becomes evident that in order to ensure that such situations do not disincentive an operator or other party could inject credits for incentive such as to the user of device in the example of .

According to an aspect a quantitative or mathematical measure may be established such that revenue that the operator harvests in a cooperative session is sufficient to inject credit or funds to a helper device for one subsequent cooperative session when two mobile devices switch their channel condition insufficiently. According to an aspect one scheme to govern the injection of credit to ensure viability of the cooperative system that is contemplated may include allowing a helper device to set a particular profit margin that is desired from offering the cooperative assistance to a primary device this profit margin denoted herein with a variable . Additionally a portion of the extra revenue harvested by the operator arising from the first cooperation session as exemplified in i.e. the revenue from mobile since the operator may charge more for the increased service could be used to fund credits provided to the helper i.e. mobile device in session by the operator. A variable can be used to denote the percentage of the revenue that the operator needs to inject as credits funds to the helper. The credit incentive scheme then may be configured such that 1 . Stated another way the percentage of revenue credited by the operator back to mobile helper is equal to or exceeds the profit or profit margin the helper desires given a net energy expenditure over multiple cooperative sessions. However it is axiomatic that if the profit margin demanded by helper devices for their cooperation is too high then the costs become too great and the scheme becomes unworkable and unprofitable for an operator.

In a specific quantitative example the credit or fund transfer from primary device also denoted here as primary device A in to helper device also denoted here as helper device B can be defined fund transfer function for funds from device A to device B where 1 e e and where edenotes the energy in joules spent on the out of band link by the helper B edenotes the energy in joules spent on the cell link by the helper device B in the 1st cooperative session and denotes a possible profit margin for the helper desired for offering cooperation. Stated another way the fund transfer is determined based on the total energy cost of both links in band and out of band normalized in terms of energy units multiplied by the desired profit margin or markup.

In order to keep the cooperative system economically viable the helper device B i.e. device in the example of would in one example have a constraint to keep the profit margin a equal to or below a certain threshold as determined by the following equation e e e e where edenotes the energy that would be spent if the cooperation did not occur edenotes the energy spent on the cell link by the helper B in the 1st cooperation session of and edenotes the energy spent on the RAN access link by the helper in the 2nd cooperation session.

According to another aspect fund or credit transfer from the RAN operator to a helper device B e.g. mobile device in may be determined according to a fund transfer function f where f e e and where e e is the extra revenue harvested by the operator from the first cooperative session in terms of normalized units of energy e.g. joules and denotes the percentage of that revenue that the operator injects as funds or credits to the helper device for incentive. In an aspect an optimal credit percentage the operator would need to inject to the helper may be governed by the relationship 1 e e e e to ensure viability for cooperative behavior for at least one subsequent session.

In another aspect if an operator desires to fund up to K subsequent cooperative sessions where K 2 when the sessions have identical cooperation setups where two mobile devices switch their channel condition insufficiently the operator may quantitatively establish the following relationship 1 e e e e K 1 ee . In order to prevent users of primary devices from taking advantage of the available incentive percentage or credit in such a situation but refusing to offer their device as a helping device also referred to herein as free riders the operator may set the following constraints or quantitative measure 1 e e e e K 1 e e 1 e e e e K 1 e e where Kand Kare respectively the minimum and the maximum number of cooperative sessions the operator may intend to fund that have identical cooperation setups where two mobile devices switch their channel condition insufficiently. It may be inferred from this relationship qualitatively speaking that the percentage of the extra revenue that the operator transfers to the helper device e.g. may be limited between a predetermined maximum of injection of credit transfer that is capped to prevent users from taking unfair advantage of incentive credits i.e. limit free riders but that is also set equal to or above a predetermined minimum to ensure that the helper device will receive incentive credit for situations wherein a user of the helper device does not have good or other incentive for assisting in a helping session.

In another alternative it is contemplated that a RAN operator may charge a primary device to boost its data rate by providing an Application Programming Interface API or similar application to a mobile device or phone for enabling or signaling micropayment transactions i.e. payment transactions involving small sums of money or amounts of credits . These types of transactions may be used by the RAN operator to charge a user account associated with a primary device an extra fee to boost the user s data rate with consent. The data rate boost is at the expense of other users data rate since the characteristics of all active channels in the network are not changed upon this operation. In other words the extra revenue the operator obtains by charging extra fees for boosting certain users would not be granted if not for the fact that other users are not asking for compensation for their data rate drop.

Furthermore the API could be used by the operator to effect the transfers discussed above including transfers from the primary to the helper and transfers from at least one operator to the helper. The transaction may include covering the basic cost at the helper device to help with the session. The transaction or a separate transaction may also credit an incentive fund that rewards the helper device such as extra minutes or some pecuniary reward.

It is noted that in the present system when a helper device helps a primary device to access the RAN the operator does not need to divert or take away bandwidth from other users. The operator may simply replace the primary device s cell link by the helper s cell link for a rate increase. Hence after the operator charges the primary device an extra fee for a better data rate and the operator would also inject a particular percentage or portion of its extra revenue into the helper s account as discussed above. In another aspect the alternative incentivized cooperation system may further include an operator charging a primary device to boost its data rate using the micropayment transaction API. Instead of taking away other users bandwidth the operator uses a helper device s cell or RAN link to deliver the primary device s data. This may require the primary device to provide a helper list to the operator of those helpers having a better channel as well as the ability to communicate with the primary device both in band or out of band.

Additionally in the alternative system the operator may inject a fund or credit into the helper s account. The operator may also utilize the micropayment transaction API to perform this task with the helper. The fund may be configured to cover at least two different portions of a helper session. First the fund may help cover the basic cost at the helper device to help the session. Additionally the fund may be used for an incentive fund that rewards the helper device. In summary this alternative incentivized cooperation system allows the operator to boost the data rate of certain users without taking away other devices bandwidth and incentivize users to cooperate among each other so to sustain this mechanism.

Further it is noted that although it is known in peer to peer systems to configure peer nodes to cooperate among one another such systems are distinct from the present disclosure. In particular the known peer to peer systems cooperate among peer nodes primarily for storing contents more efficiently in a distributed manner collaboratively sending data to enhance the throughput sharing processing tasks to reduce the workload or collaboratively transmitting signals to obtain the capacity gain in a multipath physical channel. Different from the above objectives and schemes of peer to peer systems the present incentivized cooperative system enables cooperation among peer mobile devices to access a RAN so to increase the cell capacity as well as individual RAN access throughput which is not present or of concern in peer to peer systems.

Additionally based on one or more helping sessions involving helper B the operator may initiate a fund or credit transfer to the helper device to incentivize the user of the helper device toward future cooperative behavior. The amount of funds or credits transferred may be based on the function f extra revenue harvested in terms of energy units e.g. joules . As also discussed before the underlying relationship governing fund or credit transfer may be 1 to provide incentive or profitability to the operator to continue offering cooperative arrangements.

According to another aspect an operator such as operator may infer or determine channel condition information at geographic locations based on collected historical information of credit transfers to or from mobile users in relation to their location which indicates the frequency of collaborative behavior occurring in a particular location. In an aspect this information may be derived from the credit decrease information of mobile users. For example if the credits of mobile users often decrease at a certain geographic location which indicates use of helpers by those mobile users this may also indicate that the channel conditions are generally poor in that area. In such case the operator may deploy solutions based on the synthesized channel condition information. It is noted that this retrieval of information is different from conventional methods of retrieving physical layer information as the information can be obtained at the application layer based on credit transfers.

Moreover the operator may infer cooperative behavior information from the credit change information of mobile user. From this information mobile users behaviors may then be classified into various cooperation patterns and classifications such as highly cooperative cooperative altruistic less cooperative non cooperative and so forth. Users that are highly cooperative may then be dynamically selected by service providers or operators to be mobile content providers for traffic offloading. Additionally information concerning the cooperative behavior patterns about particular users may be transmitted to other devices to assist in the selection process

Apparatus further includes a means or module for selecting at least one helper device of the determined one or more helper wireless devices to assist the wireless device in obtaining improved service from the radio access network. In an aspect means may be implemented by processor or any equivalent thereof capable of performing the function. Additionally it is noted that in an aspect means is configured to implement the process in block of method for example.

Apparatus also includes a means or module for establishing at least one wireless link between the wireless device and the selected at least one helper device allowing the wireless device to communicate with the network via the at least one helper device wherein the wireless link is an out of band wireless link not communicating within the radio access network. Means may be implemented by processor and processing and RF chain as merely one example but could be implemented with any equivalent thereof capable of performing the function. Additionally in an aspect means may be configured to implement the process in block of method .

Apparatus also includes means for directing signaling or causing signaling a transfer of credit to the selected at least one helper device to compensate the helper device for providing the wireless device access to the radio access network. In one aspect means may be implemented by processor and at least one of processing and RF chains and . Additionally in another alternative means may utilize an application or API that receives micropayment transfers from at least an operator of the RAN. Furthermore means may be configured to effect the processes or operation of block in method .

In another optional aspect apparatus may include also includes a general processor or application specific processor in another aspect which may perform any or all of the various functions of the various means of apparatus in association with a memory device used to store instructions executable by the processor to implement one or more various functions. It is noted that any of the means in apparatus may be implemented with hardware software firmware or any combination thereof and may further be implemented separately as shown or alternatively in an integral unit such as in a processor or similar device.

Apparatus may include a means or module for receiving a request from another wireless device for improved service from a radio access network by using a radio access network connection of the wireless device. In an aspect means may be implemented by processor in for example or any other equivalent devices or structures for carrying out the determining function. Additionally it is noted that means may configured to implement the process in block of method .

Apparatus further includes a means or module for establishing at least one out of band wireless link between the wireless device and the another wireless device allowing the another wireless device to utilize the radio access network connection of the wireless device for access to the radio access network. In an aspect means may be implemented by processor as well as processing and RF chains and or any equivalent thereof capable of performing the functions. Additionally it is noted that in an aspect means is configured to implement the process in block of method for example.

Further apparatus may include means for receiving a transfer of credit from at least one of the primary device and an operator of the radio access network for providing the primary device access to the radio access network. In an aspect means may be implemented by processor as one example or any equivalent structure. Additionally in another alternative means may utilize an application or API that receives micropayment transfers from at least an operator of the RAN. Furthermore means may be configured or structured to effect the operations or processes of block in method for example.

In another optional aspect apparatus may include also includes a general processor or application specific processor in another aspect which may perform any or all of the various functions of the various means of apparatus in association with a memory device used to store instructions executable by the processor to implement one or more various functions. It is noted that any of the means in apparatus may be implemented with hardware software firmware or any combination thereof and may further be implemented separately as shown or alternatively in an integral unit such as in a processor or similarly equivalent device.

Still further apparatus may further include means for receiving a transfer of credit network based at least on energy costs associated with providing the primary device access to the radio access network and at least a desired profit margin determined by a user of the wireless device. This means may be implemented by a processor such as or equivalent processing devices.

Apparatus may include a means or module for determining when a first wireless device is initiating an upgraded connection with the radio network by using at least one second wireless device assisting the first wireless device. In an aspect means may be configured to receive communication from one of a primary device and helper device to determine the upgraded connection i.e. information concerning the existence of and details of the in band and out of band connection set up such that a primary device may utilize a helper s RAN link for upgraded or improved service with higher throughput and capacity . Additionally it is noted that means may configured to implement the process in block of method .

Apparatus further includes a means or module for determining an optimal incentive credit to transfer to the assisting second wireless device based on normalized energy costs incurred by the second wireless device for at least one cooperative session. In an aspect means is configured to implement the process in block of method for example.

In another optional aspect apparatus may include also includes a general processor or application specific processor in another aspect which may perform any or all of the various functions of the various means of apparatus in association with a memory device used to store instructions executable by the processor to implement one or more various functions. It is noted that any of the means in apparatus may be implemented with hardware software firmware or any combination and equivalent thereof and may further be implemented separately as shown or alternatively in an integral unit such as in a processor or similarly equivalent device.

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is merely an example of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

Those of skill in the art will understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Those of skill will further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Those skilled in the art may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary computer program product and or computer readable storage medium is coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

The previous descriptions of the disclosed embodiments are provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

