---

title: Dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories
abstract: Digital certificate public information is extracted using a processor from at least one digital certificate stored within at least one digital certificate storage repository. The extracted digital certificate public information is stored to at least one dynamically-created certificate public information directory. At least a portion of the digital certificate public information stored within the at least one dynamically-created certificate public information directory is provided in response to a digital certificate public information request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08656155&OS=08656155&RS=08656155
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08656155
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120210
---
The present invention relates to digital certificates. More particularly the present invention relates to dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories.

Digital certificates such as those based upon the X.509 standard used in a public key infrastructure PKI may associate an identity or distinguished name DN with a public and private key pair. The public and private key pair is used to encrypt and decrypt data communicated between two entities such as for client and server applications.

In some cases digital certificates are used to both sign and encrypt data using a public key cryptographic standard PKCS such as PKCS 7. Data that has been digitally signed in this case uses the private key of the originator or sender of the data and the data is verified by the recipient using the public key of the sender s certificate and possibly the issuer certificate the certificate used to sign the sender s certificate . Data that is encrypted utilizes the public key of the intended recipient to encrypt the data for that particular recipient and the recipient uses the private key of the recipient to decrypt the data.

A method includes extracting via a processor digital certificate public information from at least one digital certificate stored within at least one digital certificate storage repository storing the extracted digital certificate public information to at least one dynamically created certificate public information directory and providing at least a portion of the digital certificate public information stored within the at least one dynamically created certificate public information directory in response to a digital certificate public information request.

A system includes a memory and a processor programmed to extract digital certificate public information from at least one digital certificate stored within at least one digital certificate storage repository store the extracted digital certificate public information to at least one dynamically created certificate public information directory within the memory and provide at least a portion of the digital certificate public information stored within the at least one dynamically created certificate public information directory in response to a digital certificate public information request.

A computer program product includes a computer readable storage medium including computer readable program code where the computer readable program code when executed on a computer causes the computer to extract digital certificate public information from at least one digital certificate stored within at least one digital certificate storage repository store the extracted digital certificate public information to at least one dynamically created certificate public information directory and provide at least a portion of the digital certificate public information stored within the at least one dynamically created certificate public information directory in response to a digital certificate public information request.

The examples set forth below represent the necessary information to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and illustrate the best mode of practicing the invention. Upon reading the following description in light of the accompanying drawing figures those skilled in the art will understand the concepts of the invention and will recognize applications of these concepts not particularly addressed herein. It should be understood that these concepts and applications fall within the scope of the disclosure and the accompanying claims.

The subject matter described herein provides dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories. The certificate public information directories store and host public information for digital certificates that physically reside remain in digital certificate storage repositories e.g. stores that are physically distributed across a network. Certificate director modules extract digital certificate public information from digital certificates stored within the digital certificate storage repositories. The certificate director modules store the extracted digital certificate public information to a dynamically created certificate public information directory and register the stored certificate public information for access by applications and other certificate directors. The digital certificate public information stored within the dynamically created certificate public information directory is provided in response to requests for the stored digital certificate public information. The requests for the digital certificate public information are performed via a certificate query application programming interface API that is optimized specifically for digital certificate public information storage and retrieval from certificate public information directories. The certificate query API provides a common interface for access to digital certificate public information within certificate public information directories. The certificate query API is independent of the underlying variety of diversely formatted storage formats for storage of digital certificates and access protocols for access to the digital certificates within the distributed digital certificate storage repositories.

The extraction of the digital certificate public information from digital certificate storage repositories and storage to certificate public information directories may be performed in response to a variety of events such as in response to requests for digital certificate public information from applications or other certificate directors as described in more detail below. These events may be triggered via the certificate query API. Additionally extraction of the digital certificate public information from digital certificate storage repositories local to a certificate director and storage within a local certificate public information directory managed by the certificate director may be performed as part of an initial load operation event for the certificate public information directory. The initial load operation event may be managed by repository specific code that handles the initial load operation. The digital certificate public information may subsequently be distributed using the certificate query API as described above and in more detail below.

Certificate director modules operate to dynamically create the certificate public information directories in response to a variety of events. For example the certificate director modules may autonomously create certificate public information directories for provisioning or other purposes. Alternatively the certificate director modules may dynamically create a certificate public information directory in response to a request for digital certificate public information from an application or another certificate director associated with a digital certificate stored within a digital certificate storage repository managed by the certificate director. As another alternative the certificate directors may dynamically create a certificate public information directory during a migration operation of certificate public information from one or more remote certificate directors for local access by applications residing on the same device as the certificate directors. Additionally certificate directors may distribute all or a portion of digital certificate public information from a locally managed certificate public information directory to one or more remote certificate directors. Other variations on configurations and certificate public information directory processing are possible and all are considered within the scope of the present subject matter.

A cluster of one or more distributed dynamically generated certificate public information directories may be provided. Certificate public information directories may be provided locally to applications that access digital certificate public information while the digital certificate storage repositories may be located remotely from the applications. The certificate query API may be used by application programs or certificate directors to access digital certificate public information in a certificate public information directory that is located either locally or remotely relative to the application programs or certificate directors. As such local access to certificate public information may be provided without transfer and importation of the actual distributed digital certificates. When implemented locally the performance implications of cross network traffic are eliminated. Accordingly network bandwidth consumption may be reduced for application retrieval of digital certificate public information and additional local storage for digital certificates is not required. Further import and export of digital certificates is not required and the logic of data protection services that use the digital certificates may be streamlined using the certificate query API.

The certificate query API is a programmatic service callable by application programs and certificate directors. The certificate query API provides callable entry points for the extraction of certificate data managed by certificate directors. The certificate query API involves a prescribed set of requests and replies. This prescribed set of requests and replies are parameter oriented and are used by the certificate query API to determine what data is to be extracted from the certificate public information directory and how it is to be returned to the caller of the API that issued the request for certificate public information.

The certificate public information stored within the certificate public information directories is stored in a structure that is interpretable by the certificate director and is optimized for retrieval by digital certificate attribute. For example a certificate public key subject distinguished name SDN issuer distinguished name IDN certificate label or other fields may be individually accessed. The certificate public information directories may be keyed by attribute values may be ordered alphanumerically or may be configured otherwise as appropriate for a given implementation. As such access to certificate public information may be granular and tailored to the particular implementation without departure from the scope of the present subject matter.

A registry of certificate public information stored within certificate public information directories may be provided. Certificate directors may publish these registries for use by applications and other certificate directors. The registry of available certificate public information may be accessed by the certificate query API. As such applications and other certificate directors may readily determine which certificate director s have specific items of certificate public information for individual digital certificates.

Certificate public information stored within certificate public information directories may be refreshed either manually or in an automated manner on a configurable time interval or schedule. Alternatively certificate directors may be configured to update certificate public information stored within certificate public information directories as digital certificate public information changes within the digital certificate storage repositories. In such a situation digital certificates stored within the digital certificate storage repositories may be monitored to determine changes or configuration data associated with the digital certificates may be added to the entries within the certificate public information directories for the respective digital certificate public information and this configuration data may be used to determine when to refresh the stored certificate public information. As such the certificate public information directories may be maintained with current certificate public information as that information changes for the respective digital certificates.

Digital certificate public information directories may be temporarily dynamically created for use and the storage later reclaimed for other uses. Alternatively digital certificate public information directories may be dynamically created for permanent usage as appropriate for a given implementation. The present subject matter does not require pre loading of a single certificate public information directory with relevant digital certificate public information. The digital certificate public information may be dynamically retrieved and certificate public information directories may be dynamically constructed to migrate certificate public information in real time as information is requested by applications or certificate directors which reduces administrative complexity and overhead.

The technology described herein provides an environment where applications and certificate directors may retrieve digital certificate public information as needed using the certificate query API. As such the present subject matter is well suited for asynchronous e.g. non connection oriented communication environments because digital certificate public information may be retrieved from certificate public information directories in real time and without the provisioning involved for importation of digital certificates. However it should be understood that the present subject matter may also be applied to synchronous communication environments as appropriate for a given implementation. Accordingly improved digital certificate management and digital certificate public information access for a variety of system implementations may be obtained through use of the present subject matter.

It should be noted that conception of the present subject matter resulted from recognition of certain limitations associated with digital certificate management. For example it was observed that for either signing or encrypting of data under conventional systems the digital certificates involved must be available locally to the service providing the relevant data protection services. However it was recognized that when distributing protected data over a network it is often the case that the digital certificates are also distributed across the network and not necessarily available locally. Consequently it was recognized that it is necessary with conventional systems to import and export the actual digital certificates on relevant nodes devices in the network to ensure the appropriate digital certificates are available when needed by the data protection service which involves manual administrative pre loading of digital certificates to make them available to applications. It was determined that this processing may become a complex and time consuming task for administrators when the number of digital certificates involved reaches hundreds or thousands of digital certificates. It was additionally observed that nodes devices in a network may have different services for physically storing digital certificates and that each may have different access formats and protocols for accessing digital certificate data. For example it was observed that a digital certificate store repository may be a system authorization facility SAF key ring managed by a resource access control facility RACF on a z OS operating system may be a key store database on a Linux operating system may be a Java Key Store JKS file on a Windows operating system or may use other formats protocols. It was determined in conjunction with the observations above that this variation of storage and access formats adds complexity to the management of digital certificates and to the logic of data protection services that use the digital certificates. It was additionally observed that there were no available services or application programming interfaces APIs specifically optimized for the retrieval of public certificate data information e.g. extraction of a digital certificate label issuer etc. .

The present subject matter improves digital certificate management and digital certificate public information access by providing dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories. The flexibility of distribution and availability of digital certificate public information eliminates cross network request reply traffic for digital certificate public information when directories are implemented local to applications. The optimized certificate query API provides for digital certificate public information extraction from the certificate public information directories in real time and as requested by applications and certificate directors.

For purposes of the present subject matter the phrases dynamic generation and dynamic creation including variations of these phrases used in different sentence structures may be considered synonymous. Additionally it is understood that the phrase digital certificate and certificate are used interchangeably.

The dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories described herein may be performed in real time to allow prompt migration and access to digital certificate public information. For purposes of the present description real time shall include any time frame of sufficiently short duration as to provide reasonable response time for information processing acceptable to a user of the subject matter described. Additionally the term real time shall include what is commonly termed near real time generally meaning any time frame of sufficiently short duration as to provide reasonable response time for on demand information processing acceptable to a user of the subject matter described e.g. within a portion of a second or within a few seconds . These terms while difficult to precisely define are well understood by those skilled in the art.

As will be described in more detail below in association with through a computing device  through a computing device N provide automated dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories. The automated dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories is based upon dynamic creation of certificate public information directories that store and provide access to public information associated with distributed digital certificate repositories. The automated dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories may be performed for example in real time in response to requests for public information by applications that communicate asynchronously or may be performed in response to device network configuration operations and or changes to certificate public information processing demands within a group of devices. In response to such requests public information associated with digital certificates stored within distributed digital certificate repositories may be migrated to the dynamically created certificate public information directories and access to the public information associated with the digital certificates may be provided from within the dynamically created certificate public information directories.

Within the computing device  the computing device  the computing device  and the computing device N communicate via a network . The computing device  through the computing device N are provided for purposes of illustration. It is understood that the present subject matter may be applied to one or more computing devices as appropriate for a given implementation.

Regarding digital certificate stores repositories within the system of the computing device  hosts a certificate repository . The computing device  hosts two certificate repositories a certificate repository and a certificate repository . For purposes of the present example all digital certificates that are used within the example system are stored within one of these certificate repositories. The certificate repository through the certificate repository may be diverse in type. For example the certificate repository through the certificate repository may include a system authorization facility SAF key ring managed by a resource access control facility RACF on a z OS operating system a key store database on a Linux operating system a Java Key Store JKS file on a Windows operating system or may include other formats protocols as appropriate for the given implementation. As described above and in more detail below applications that execute at one of the computing device  through the computing device N may access public information associated with the stored digital certificates without migration or importation of the actual digital certificates.

As can be seen from each of the computing device  through the computing device N is configured slightly differently for purposes of the present example. However it is understood that many variations on configurations are possible based upon the present subject matter. Accordingly all such configurations are considered within the scope of the present subject matter.

Regarding configuration of the computing device  the computing device  hosts one or more applications . The applications may interface via the certificate query API with a certificate director module or with any other certificate director within the system as described in more detail below to obtain certificate public information associated with digital certificates stored within any of the certificate repository through the certificate repository . The certificate director module implements the automated dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories described herein within the computing device  . The certificate director module automatically creates within local memory a certificate public information directory . The certificate public information directory is configured by the certificate director module and may store digital certificate public information associated with digital certificates stored within one or more of the certificate repository through the certificate repository .

Regarding configuration of the computing device  the computing device  hosts one or more applications . The applications may interface via the certificate query API with a certificate director module or with any other certificate director within the system as described above and in more detail below to obtain certificate public information associated with digital certificates stored within any of the certificate repository the certificate repository and the certificate repository . The certificate director module implements the automated dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories described herein within the computing device  . The certificate director module automatically creates within local memory a certificate public information directory . The certificate public information directory is configured by the certificate director module and may store digital certificate public information associated with digital certificates stored within one or more of the certificate repository through the certificate repository .

Regarding configuration of the computing device  the computing device  hosts one or more applications . The applications may interface via the certificate query API with a certificate director module or with any other certificate director within the system as described above and in more detail below to obtain certificate public information associated with digital certificates stored within any of the certificate repository through the certificate repository . The certificate director module implements the automated dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories described herein within the computing device  . The certificate director module automatically creates within local memory a certificate public information directory . The certificate public information directory is configured by the certificate director module and stores digital certificate public information for digital certificates stored within one or more of the certificate repository through the certificate repository . As such the computing device  illustrates an example implementation of the computing device that does not host a certificate repository. In this case the certificate director module may load the certificate public information directory with certificate public information from any other certificate director in the system and may make the certificate public information available via the certificate query API to local and remote applications in the system .

Regarding configuration of the computing device N the computing device N hosts one or more applications . The applications may interface via the certificate query API with any certificate director within the system as described above and in more detail below to retrieve obtain certificate public information associated with digital certificates stored within any of the certificate repository through the certificate repository . As such the computing device N represents an example implementation of a device that does not locally implement a certificate director a certificate public information directory or a certificate repository.

It should further be noted that each of the applications and may utilize the certificate public information obtained from certificate directors within the system for asynchronous or synchronous communication purposes. As such a variety of communication possibilities may utilize the automated dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories described herein.

The distribution configuration and selection of digital certificate public information that is stored within the respective certificate public information directories by the respective certificate directors may be provisioned or may be performed in response to communications initiated by a local application with one or more other remote applications. As such certificate public information directories may be populated in real time as requests for digital certificate public information are made. Additionally distribution configuration and selection of digital certificate public information may be configured and selected in response to communications initiated by remote applications hosted by other devices within the system that are directed to one or more of the applications hosted by a particular device that hosts a certificate director.

As such each certificate director within the system optionally loads physically stored digital certificate data public information from digital certificates stored within one or more certificate repositories and stores the certificate public information in the respective certificate public information directory associated with that certificate director. Each certificate director may optionally request certificate public information from any other certificate director in the system using the certificate query API and may store that certificate public information in the respective certificate public information directory. Optionally each certificate director may leave the certificate public information in the respective certificate repository and extract the certificate public information as requested via certificate query API requests for the public information associated with the respective digital certificates. The certificate public information stored within the respective certificate public information directories alleviates application processing for certificate repositories. The certificate public information stored within the respective certificate public information directories is accessible to any application or certificate director in the system using the certificate query API via one or more certificate directors. Accordingly the certificate directors provide certificate public information to requesting applications and to other certificate directors in the system from its hosted certificate public information directory which may be created and populated from the respective managed certificate repositories as and when requested via the certificate query API. Certificate public information may be distributed and migrated between certificate public information directories managed by different certificate directors dynamically as appropriate for each given implementation.

It should be noted that the computing device  through the computing device N may be portable computing devices either by a user s ability to move the respective computing device to different locations or by the respective computing device s association with a portable platform such as a plane train automobile or other moving vehicle. It should also be noted that the computing device  through the computing device N may be any computing device capable of processing information as described above and in more detail below. For example the computing device  through the computing device N may include devices such as a personal computer e.g. desktop laptop etc. or a handheld device e.g. cellular telephone personal digital assistant PDA email device music recording or playback device etc. or any other device capable of processing information as described in more detail below.

The network may include any form of interconnection suitable for the intended purpose including a private or public network such as an intranet or the Internet respectively direct inter module interconnection dial up wireless or any other interconnection mechanism capable of interconnecting the respective devices.

As such for any of the examples above and below it is understood that any aspect of functionality described with respect to any one device that is described in conjunction with another device e.g. sends sending etc. is to be understood to concurrently describe the functionality of the other respective device e.g. receives receiving etc. .

A central processing unit CPU provides computer instruction execution computation and other capabilities within the core processing module . A display provides visual information to a user of the core processing module and an input device provides input capabilities for the user.

The display may include any display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED electronic ink displays projection touchscreen or other display element or panel. The input device may include a computer keyboard a keypad a mouse a pen a joystick or any other type of input device by which the user may interact with and respond to information on the display . It should be noted that the display and input device may be considered optional for certain implementations of certain devices as appropriate for the given implementation.

A communication module provides interconnection capabilities that allow the core processing module to communicate with other modules within the system . The communication module may include any electrical protocol and protocol conversion capabilities useable to provide the interconnection capabilities. Though the communication module is illustrated as a component level module for ease of illustration and description purposes it should be noted that the communication module may include any hardware programmed processor s and memory used to carry out the functions of the communication module as described above and in more detail below. For example the communication module may include additional controller circuitry in the form of application specific integrated circuits ASICs processors antennas and or discrete integrated circuits and components for performing communication and electrical control activities associated with the communication module . Additionally the communication module may include interrupt level stack level and application level modules as appropriate. Furthermore the communication module may include any memory components used for storage execution and data processing for performing processing activities associated with the communication module . The communication module may also form a portion of other circuitry described without departure from the scope of the present subject matter.

A memory includes an application storage area that stores applications such as the applications of the computing device  and provides execution space for applications within the core processing module . A certificate public information directory and registry storage area stores certificate public information directories such as the certificate public information directory of the computing device  and stores a published registry that identifies contents of the certificate public information directory. As described above the published registry may be accessed via the certificate query API by applications and certificate directors. A certificate repository storage area stores one or more certificate repositories such as the certificate repository of the computing device  .

It should additionally be noted as described above in association with that for example a certificate repository and certificate public information directory such as the certificate repository and the certificate public information directory of the computing device  are not illustrated within the computing device N . However it should be understood that memory for storage of certificate repositories and certificate public information directories may be deployed and activated dynamically without departure from the scope of the present subject matter.

The memory may include any combination of volatile and non volatile memory suitable for the intended purpose distributed or localized as appropriate and may include other memory segments not illustrated within the present example for ease of illustration purposes. For example the memory may include a code storage area an operating system storage area a code execution area and a data area without departure from the scope of the present subject matter.

A certificate director module is also illustrated. It is understood that the certificate director module represents any of the certificate director the certificate director and the certificate director described above in association with based upon which respective computing device the certificate director module is implemented within. As such the naming convention of the certificate director module is for ease of description purposes.

The certificate director module provides processing of certificate public information for the core processing module as described above and in more detail below. The certificate director module implements the automated dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories of the core processing module .

Though the certificate director module is illustrated as a component level module for ease of illustration and description purposes it should be noted that the certificate director module may include any hardware programmed processor s and memory used to carry out the functions of this module as described above and in more detail below. For example the certificate director module may include additional controller circuitry in the form of application specific integrated circuits ASICs processors and or discrete integrated circuits and components for performing communication and electrical control activities associated with the respective devices. Additionally the certificate director module may include interrupt level stack level and application level modules as appropriate. Furthermore the certificate director module may include any memory components used for storage execution and data processing for performing processing activities associated with the module.

It should also be noted that the certificate director module may form a portion of other circuitry described without departure from the scope of the present subject matter. Further the certificate director module may alternatively be implemented as an application stored within the application storage area of the memory . In such an implementation the certificate director module may include instructions executed by the CPU for performing the functionality described herein. The CPU may execute these instructions to provide the processing capabilities described above and in more detail below for the core processing module . The certificate director module may form a portion of an interrupt service routine ISR a portion of an operating system a portion of a browser application or a portion of a separate application without departure from the scope of the present subject matter.

It should additionally be noted as described above in association with that for example a certificate director such as the certificate director module is not illustrated within the computing device N . However it should be understood that certificate directors may be deployed and activated dynamically without departure from the scope of the present subject matter.

A timer clock module is illustrated and used to determine timing and date information such as for lifetime and certificate public information management of digital certificates for refreshing the certificate public information within certificate public information directories. As such the certificate director module may utilize information derived from the timer clock module for information processing activities such as the automated dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories and refreshing contents of the certificate public information directories described herein.

The CPU the display the input device the communication module the memory the certificate director module and the timer clock module are interconnected via an interconnection . The interconnection may include a system bus a network or any other interconnection capable of providing the respective components with suitable interconnection for the respective purpose.

While the core processing module is illustrated with and has certain components described other modules and components may be associated with the core processing module without departure from the scope of the present subject matter. Additionally it should be noted that while the core processing module is described as a single device for ease of illustration purposes the components within the core processing module may be co located or distributed and interconnected via a network without departure from the scope of the present subject matter. For a distributed arrangement the display and the input device may be located at a point of sale device kiosk or other location while the CPU and memory may be located at a local or remote server. Many other possible arrangements for components of the core processing module are possible and all are considered within the scope of the present subject matter. Accordingly the core processing module may take many forms and may be associated with many platforms.

Higher level processing associate with the process will be initially described followed by a description of processing associated with each higher level decision point. At decision point the process makes a determination as to whether to create a certificate public information directory. This determination may be request based such that creation of a certificate public information directory is performed in response to a request for digital certificate public information associated with a digital certificate stored within a digital certificate storage repository. Alternatively creation of a certificate public information directory may be performed dynamically in response to a variety of other factors including provisioning operations or other operations as appropriate for a given implementation.

In response to determining at decision point not to create a certificate public information directory the process makes a determination at decision point as to whether a digital certificate public information request has been received. A certificate public information request may be received for example from an application or from another certificate director.

In response to determining at decision point that a digital certificate public information request has not been received the process makes a determination at decision point as to whether to migrate certificate public information from another remote certificate public information directory for local storage. This processing may be performed by communicating with a remote certificate director that operates at a remote device and requesting a portion or all of the certificate public information stored and managed by the respective remote certificate director within a certificate public information directory at that remote device. As such the process may dynamically move certificate public information from remote certificate public information directories for local storage.

In response to determining at decision point not to migrate certificate public information from another remote certificate public information directory for local storage the process makes a determination at decision point as to whether to refresh certificate public information within a managed certificate public information directory. The process may refresh certificate public information in response to a configured interval or time period at scheduled times or in response to changes to the managed certificate public information within the original digital certificates stored within the separate digital certificate repositories. As such the process may autonomously update certificate public information within a managed certificate public information directory.

In response to determining at decision point not to refresh certificate public information within a managed certificate public information directory the process returns to decision point and iterates as described above.

Returning to the description of decision point in response to determining to create a certificate public information directory the process dynamically creates a certificate public information directory at block . At block the process extracts digital certificate public information from at least one digital certificate stored within one or more digital certificate storage repositories managed by the respective certificate director. At block the process stores the extracted digital certificate public information to a dynamically generated dynamically created certificate public information directory and publishes the certificate public information via a registry accessible to the certificate query API. As such applications and certificate directors may utilize the registry accessible via the certificate query API at the respective certificate directors to determine what digital certificate public information is available within certificate public information directories managed by the respective certificate directors within a system. With the registry information the applications and certificate directors may selectively retrieve all or a portion of the available digital certificate public information from any such certificate director. In the case of certificate director registry access the respective certificate director may store the retrieved digital certificate public information within a locally managed certificate public information directory and may update its registry to include the stored digital certificate public information.

At decision point the process makes a determination as to whether a request for digital certificate public information is pending from another application or another certificate director. Processing for an affirmative determination at decision point will be described below in more detail in association with the description of an affirmative decision at decision point . Within the present branch of processing and for purposes of the present portion of the description it is assumed that there is no pending request for certificate public information from another application or another certificate director. As such in response to determining at decision point that there is not a request for digital certificate public information pending from another application or another certificate director the process returns to decision point and iterates as described above.

Returning to the description of decision point in response to determining that a digital certificate public information request has been received the process makes a determination at decision point as to whether a locally managed certificate public information directory already exists. In response to determining that a locally managed certificate public information directory does not already exist the process returns to block and iterates as described above to dynamically create a local certificate public information directory subject to additional processing branching from decision point as described in more detail below in view of the pending digital certificate public information request.

In response to determining at decision point that a locally managed certificate public information directory already exists the process makes a determination at decision point as to whether the requested digital certificate public information is already stored within the locally managed certificate public information directory. In response to determining that the requested digital certificate public information is not already stored within the locally managed certificate public information directory the process returns to block to extract the requested certificate public information from the respective digital certificate within the respective digital certificate repository in which the digital certificate is stored and to store the extracted certificate public information to the certificate public information directory at block as described above.

It should be noted that the requested digital certificate public information may be stored within a remote digital certificate repository. In this situation the process may communicate at block with a remote certificate director that hosts the remote digital certificate repository and request the remote certificate director to extract and return the requested digital certificate public information for storage within a local certificate public information directory at block . This processing may include accessing a registry of hosted digital certificate public information at one or more remote certificate directors via the certificate query API hosted by each remote certificate director to determine a source for the requested digital certificate public information. This processing may be performed in real time as described above. It should additionally be noted that in cases where the requested digital certificate public information is not available from the remote certificate director the process may return an indication that the requested information is not available e.g. via a message such as No Information Available . These communications and processing are omitted from due to space limitations within the drawing but are understood to form a portion of .

As such the process may dynamically create a certificate public information directory and populate that dynamically created certificate public information directory with digital certificate public information extracted from digital certificates within locally managed certificate storage repositories in response to requests for digital certificate public information from applications or other certificate directors.

Returning to the description of decision point during this iteration of processing the process will determine that there is a pending request for certificate public information. As such in response to determining at decision point that there is a pending request for certificate public information or in response to determining that the requested certificate public information is already stored within the certificate information directory at decision point the process retrieves the requested certificate public information from the certificate public information directory at block .

At decision point the process makes a determination as to whether the current pending request for certificate public information is from a remote certificate director operating at a remote computing device. In response to determining that the current pending request for certificate public information is from a remote certificate director operating at a remote computing device the process makes a determination at decision point as to whether to distribute additional certificate public information to the respective remote certificate director. In response to determining to distribute additional certificate public information to the respective remote certificate director the process retrieves additional certificate public information to distribute from the certificate public information directory at block . It should again be noted as described above that in cases where the requested digital certificate public information is not available from the remote certificate director the process may return an indication that the requested information is not available e.g. via a message such as No Information Available . It is again noted that this processing is omitted from due to space limitations within the drawing but is understood to form a portion of .

In response to retrieving the additional certificate public information to distribute from the certificate public information directory at block or in response to determining that the current pending request for certificate public information is not from a remote certificate director operating at a remote computing device at decision point or in response to determining not to distribute additional certificate public information to the respective remote certificate director at decision point the process provides the requested certificate public information retrieved from the certificate public information directory in response to the request and alternatively any additional certificate public information to be distributed to the respective remote certificate director at block . The process returns to decision point and iterates as described above.

Returning to the description of decision point in response to determining to migrate certificate public information from another remote certificate public information directory for local storage the process transitions to the processing shown and described in association with .

Returning to the description of decision point in in response to determining to refresh certificate public information within a managed certificate public information directory the process again transitions to the processing shown and described in association with .

At block the process retrieves certificate public information for any changed digital certificate s from the separate digital certificate repository or repositories within which the respective digital certificate s are stored. At block the process refreshes the managed certificate public information directory with the updated public information. The process returns to processing described in association with at decision point and iterates as described above.

As such the process dynamically creates a certificate public information directory in response to a variety of events. For example the process may autonomously create a certificate public information directory. Alternatively the process may dynamically create a certificate public information directory in response to a request for digital certificate public information. As another alternative the process may dynamically create a certificate public information directory during a migration operation of certificate public information from one or more remote certificate directors. The process may extract certificate public information from locally managed certificate storage repositories and store the extracted certificate public information to the dynamically generated certificate public information directory. The process may also distribute digital certificate public information from a locally managed certificate public information directory to one or more remote certificate directors.

Higher level processing associated with the process will be initially described followed by a description of processing associated with each higher level decision point. At decision point the process makes a determination as to whether to send a communication to another application. In response to a determination to not send a communication to another application the process makes a determination at decision point as to whether the communication has been received from another application. In response to determining that a communication has not been received from another application the process returns to decision point and iterates as described above.

In response to determining at decision point to send the communication to another application the process requests certificate public information from a certificate director for use in communicating with the other application at block . For example for a communication that is to be encrypted the application uses the public key of the intended recipient to encrypt the data for that particular recipient. As such the application may request the respective public information e.g. public key from the respective certificate director. As described in association with above the certificate director may operate locally on the same computing device as the application that executes the process or may operate on a remote computing device without departure from the scope of the present subject matter.

At decision point the process waits for a response that includes the requested certificate public information. In response to receipt of the requested certificate public information the process uses the received certificate public information to send the communication to the other application at block . The process returns to decision point and iterates as described above.

Returning to the description of decision point in response to determining that a communication has been received from another application the process requests certificate public information from a certificate director at block . For example for a communication that has been digitally signed the application may verify the communication using the public key of the sender s certificate and possibly the issuer certificate the certificate used to sign the sender s certificate . As such the application may request the respective public information e.g. public keys from the respective certificate director. As described above and as described in association with above the certificate director may operate locally on the same computing device as the application that executes the process or may operate on a remote computing device without departure from the scope of the present subject matter.

At decision point the process waits for a response that includes the requested certificate public information. In response to receipt of the requested certificate public information the process processes the received communication using the received certificate public information at block . The process returns to decision point and iterates as described above.

As such the process provides for dynamic retrieval of certificate public information associated with communications between applications. The applications request the certificate public information to be used in association with the respective communications from a local or remote certificate director. As such the applications do not have to process any accesses to digital certificate storage repositories or manage the logic associated with different digital certificate storage repository formats to asynchronously or synchronously communicate.

As described above in association with through the example systems and processes provide dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories. Many other variations and additional activities associated with dynamic generation and processing of certificate public information directories are possible and all are considered within the scope of the present subject matter.

Those skilled in the art will recognize upon consideration of the above teachings that certain of the above examples are based upon use of a programmed processor such as the CPU . However the invention is not limited to such example embodiments since other embodiments could be implemented using hardware component equivalents such as special purpose hardware and or dedicated processors. Similarly general purpose computers microprocessor based computers micro controllers optical computers analog computers dedicated processors application specific circuits and or dedicated hard wired logic may be used to construct alternative equivalent embodiments.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as JAVA Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention have been described with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

