---

title: System and method for custom-fitting services to consumer requirements
abstract: Systems and methods for custom-fitting a service solution to consumer requirements are provided. A method for custom-fitting a service solution to consumer requirements, comprises acquiring a request for the service solution from a consumer via a conversational interface, and issuing a query to a service knowledge base to obtain a set of service knowledge representation items from the service knowledge base and analyzing each service knowledge representation item to determine whether a custom-fit service solution can be developed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09020841&OS=09020841&RS=09020841
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09020841
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121116
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 655 890 filed on Oct. 19 2012 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

The field generally relates to systems and methods for custom fitting a service solution to consumer requirements and in particular shifting the burden of discovery of and matching a service solution with business needs from the service consumer to the service marketplace.

For as long as there have been services computational or otherwise there has been a desire to have a convenient medium to expose and discover service offerings. Since the early days of distributed computing environment DCE and common object request broker architecture CORBA there have been directory servers and trading services the latter being an attempt at mimicking a sort of yellow pages for distributed objects the yellow pages being the archetypal medium for finding services by various criteria when a direct or symbolic reference to the service does not exist. More recently there have been efforts such as Java naming and directory interface JNDI for Java remote objects and universal description discovery and integration UDDI for web services aimed at defining a standard approach for the exchange of computational services. At the same time numerous commercial web services directories and registries have been created in an effort to capitalize on the potential of a services marketplace. Some web services intermediaries use relatively simplistic search and categorization algorithms despite the availability of more advanced features in specifications like UDDI.

Traditional services catalogs or registries such as UDDI are intended to store metadata for search oriented architecture SOA services retrieval. The Web Service Modeling Ontology WSMO is an effort to fill the semantic gap between different services metadata by adding semantic capabilities to the web services description which was initially based on a syntactic interchange approach only. Thus WSMO web ontology languages OWL S and other semantic web services based frameworks and languages attempt to alleviate the search and composition of services.

Other marketplace service matching approaches rely on artificial intelligence AI planning algorithms and apply backward chaining to derive suitable matching and composition from a certain goal. Often such approaches leverage formal descriptions of service functionality as proposed by the World Wide Web Consortium W3C OWL S or WSMO. Compositions that also consider information about the temporal behavior of a service and quality of service QoS based matching and composition algorithms have also been proposed.

In general exemplary embodiments of the invention include systems and methods for custom fitting a service solution to consumer requirements and in particular shifting the burden of discovery of and matching a service solution with business needs from the service consumer to the service marketplace.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention a system for custom fitting a service solution to consumer requirements comprises a service consumer module including a conversational interface interacting with a consumer to acquire a request for the service solution and a service specification mining module and a services marketplace module including a service knowledge base having a collection of service knowledge representation items wherein the service specification mining module interacts with the conversational interface and the service knowledge base and wherein the service specification mining module issues a query to the service knowledge base to obtain a set of the service knowledge representation items and analyzes each service knowledge representation item to determine whether a custom fit service solution can be developed.

The service specification mining module may maintains a conversational state on a per service consumer basis.

A service knowledge representation item may be machine processable content obtained from a service characterization and may include one or more parameters. The machine processable content may be at least one of semantic and syntactic. Each of the one or more parameters is one of a pluggable parameter fulfilled by plugging in another service knowledge representation item or a user parameter fulfilled by user input. The service characterization may be at least one of a service description a service interface service documentation and service implementation code.

The conversational interface may compute the query to be issued to the service knowledge base based on the request for the service solution and forward the query to the service specification mining module.

The service specification mining module may analyze each service knowledge representation item in its conversational state.

The service specification mining module may synthesize the custom fit service solution and transmit the custom fit service solution to the conversational interface if the service specification mining module determines that the custom fit service solution can be developed. The synthesized custom fit service solution may not exist as a service knowledge representation item in the service knowledge base. The service specification mining module may synthesize the custom fit service solution from service knowledge representation items s1 s2 s3 . . . sn by plugging s2 s3 . . . sn into s1 where n 2.

If the service specification mining module determines that the custom fit service solution cannot be developed the service specification mining module may select a subset of user parameters from the set of the service knowledge representation items and pass the subset of user parameters to the conversational interface. The conversational interface may compute a question based on the user parameters and the question may be provided to the consumer. Upon receipt of an answer to the question from the consumer the conversational interface may compute another query to be issued to the service knowledge base and forward the other query to the service specification mining module.

The service specification mining module may transmit the custom fit service solution to the conversational interface if the service specification mining module finds the custom fit service solution.

The service specification mining module may determine that a parameter in a service knowledge representation item of the set of the service knowledge representation items is unpluggable.

The service specification mining module may compute another query to be issued to the service knowledge base based on a pluggable parameter in the set of service knowledge representation items wherein the pluggable parameter has not been deemed unpluggable and the service specification mining module marks the pluggable parameter as queried.

The service specification mining module may determine that the request cannot be fulfilled automatically if every service knowledge representation item of the set of the service knowledge representation items includes only unpluggable parameters. The service specification mining module may engage a human consultant if the service specification mining module determines that the request cannot be filled automatically.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention a method for custom fitting a service solution to consumer requirements comprises acquiring a request for the service solution from a consumer via a conversational interface and issuing a query to a service knowledge base to obtain a set of service knowledge representation items from the service knowledge base and analyzing each service knowledge representation item to determine whether a custom fit service solution can be developed.

The method may further comprise computing the query to be issued to the service knowledge base based on the request for the service solution and forwarding the query to a service specification mining module.

The method may further comprise determining that the custom fit service solution cannot be developed selecting a subset of user parameters from the set of the service knowledge representation items passing the subset of user parameters to the conversational interface and computing a question based on the user parameters and providing the question to the consumer.

Upon receipt of an answer to the question from the consumer the method may further comprise computing another query to be issued to the service knowledge base and forwarding the other query to a service specification mining module.

The method may further comprise computing another query to be issued to the service knowledge base based on a pluggable parameter in the set of service knowledge representation items wherein the pluggable parameter has not been deemed unpluggable and marking the pluggable parameter as queried.

The method may further comprise determining that the request cannot be fulfilled automatically if every service knowledge representation item of the set of the service knowledge representation items includes only unpluggable parameters and engaging a human consultant if the request cannot be fulfilled automatically.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention an article of manufacture comprises a computer readable storage medium comprising program code tangibly embodied thereon which when executed by a computer performs method steps for custom fitting a service solution to consumer requirements and the method steps comprise acquiring a request for the service solution from a consumer via a conversational interface issuing a query to a service knowledge base to obtain a set of service knowledge representation items from the service knowledge base and analyzing each service knowledge representation item to determine whether a custom fit service solution can be developed computing the query to be issued to the service knowledge base based on the request for the service solution and forwarding the query to a service specification mining module wherein the service specification mining module synthesizes the custom fit service solution and transmits the custom fit service solution to the conversational interface if the service specification mining module determines that the custom fit service solution can be developed.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention an apparatus for custom fitting a service solution to consumer requirements comprises a memory and a processor coupled to the memory and configured to execute code stored in the memory for acquiring a request for the service solution from a consumer via a conversational interface and issuing a query to a service knowledge base to obtain a set of service knowledge representation items from the service knowledge base and analyzing each service knowledge representation item to determine whether a custom fit service solution can be developed.

These and other exemplary embodiments of the invention will be described or become apparent from the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments which is to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention will now be discussed in further detail with regard to systems and methods for custom fitting a service solution to consumer requirements and in particular shifting the burden of discovery of and matching a service solution with business needs from the service consumer to the service marketplace. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein.

Marketplaces can be defined as places where third parties bring their goods for consumers to find them and transact in some convenient way. Typically marketplace service matching approaches support matching and composition using service functionality criteria only and disregard other non functional e.g. business related service properties used for service differentiation e.g. quality of service or prices . These approaches do not support declarative representation for service descriptions and queries as required for service retrieval.

An approach for a compact representation of service descriptions and queries with complex pricing and preference functions may support multiple service configurations and feature a service selection algorithm but is restricted to the selection of single services and not applicable for service composition. Typically the presence of asymmetric information and rational opportunistic behavior of service providers and customers is always ignored in the body of work that deals with service composition from a purely technical perspective.

In the economics and marketing science literature prior contributions typically focus on the trade off between extra marketplace coverage and lost revenue building on the rational opportunistic behavior of service providers and customers. They differ with respect to the customer segments considered and the number of service versions.

By design cloud service products are characterized by an inherent product complexity. Hence the description of the cloud service and the cloud service customer preferences are preferably driven by a combination of functional and non functional attributes. In the economic literature typically a cloud service utility is modeled as linear multi attributive utility functions over non functional quality attributes which yield a user s willingness to select and pay for the product and can lay the basis for price negotiation.

In the cloud services space third party services providers can bring their cloud services and services that consumers expect to match the capabilities that best suit the consumer s needs with a service offering. Services as opposed to goods can vary in the way they function in the way that they get activated and vary in the way they serve the requirements they fulfill. In general according to embodiments of the present invention there is provided systems and methods for allowing the consumer to find a services solution tailored to their needs. Embodiments of the invention can be applied in the landscape of cloud services marketplaces and describe an architecture and the enablers that would help consumers engage with the marketplace in an easy to use and successful manner.

Classification schemes that reflect the vocabulary of the target customers can be used for the discovery of suitable Web services. According to embodiments of the present invention a services marketplace can fulfill the promise of an electronic emporium where third party service providers are able to offer their services in a ubiquitous ecosystem and where service consumers are able to acquire service solutions that are tailored to their requirements. Electronic commerce sites for example Amazon.com allow 1 buyers looking for a wide variety of products and the ability to compare and contrast products from a wide variety of sellers and 2 sellers to have direct access to catalogs and to use brand name one stop shopping and reputation systems to target a buyer base that they might not otherwise have access to. Similarly a services marketplace in accordance with embodiments of the present invention a provides consumers with service solutions that are custom fit to their requirements with the system implicitly selecting from a variety of service offerings and b enables providers to offer their services via an intelligent service store that has deep knowledge of services and consumers and that is able to respond to consumer requests and learn from its experience.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention requirements do not need to be stated in terms of service offering features or the a priori existence of an off the shelf solution the system will be able to compose a solution. In addition service consumers can utilize the social nature of the marketplace to rate and recommend services and providers and let the marketplace use other consumers ratings and recommendations factor into the fulfillment of a service requirement. To a service provider in accordance with embodiments of the present invention a services marketplace is not only a means to expose service offerings its existing content and features are also a means to enrich new offerings via for example custom adaptation and incorporation of such customizations back into the service store. The social nature of the marketplace can allow providers to reach an otherwise not available service consumer base and to benefit from the competition and collaboration with other providers.

Services can be classified as for example standalone services that enhance offerings and platforms that have evolved into ecosystems. Platforms may offer full life cycle processes for their data artifacts and as a result become the system of record for those key artifacts. These elements may build an ecosystem that keeps participants engaged. Platforms can be in essence marketplaces where a consumer can come and pay for the base services and then get add ons that enhance the value of those base services.

According to embodiments of the present invention a number of enablers for example from a services consumer point of view can be brought together under one or more architectures to create the services marketplaces. A subset of these enablers can be for example consumability and intelligence.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention methods for applying adapting or composing service solutions to fulfill business needs will be available even if a service consumer s needs are expressed in general or vague terms that are not directly translated into the corresponding service solution. For example under conventional system when a service consumer states a need for a payroll service solution the fact that a particular realization of for example an ADP solution may fit the consumer s needs is not necessarily apparent.

Conventional approaches to customizing a service solution can be limited by how well the marketplace can understand the consumer s requirements what it knows about the solution how well it can correlate the two and how it can adapt the solution to fit the consumer s needs. For instance understanding a need for a payroll service solution can amount to checking off a multiple choice box. However when the number of choices grows beyond the grasp of the consumer or when presenting each choice cannot be reasonably done with a few words alternatives to the familiar form based and menu based interfaces are needed. Similarly narrowing down possible solutions can amount to presenting structured query language SQL query results in a table which the consumer would try to understand and select from. Alternatively the marketplace could present the consumer with the next level of choices based on its understanding of results to service knowledge queries.

In order to improve the consumability of service use exemplary embodiments of the present invention go beyond traditional approaches. In particular in accordance with embodiments of the present invention consumers can express their needs and requirements in a flexible manner. In addition the marketplace is able to understand a consumer s request in multiple modalities including but not limited to natural language requests . As a result in accordance with embodiments of the present invention vague or ambiguous requests are transformed into service knowledge queries and their results. Further conversations with the consumer are had to further elucidate details of the consumer s requirements. As a result the burden of discovery of and matching a service solution with business needs is shifted from the service consumer to the service marketplace by using a rich enough knowledge base of service solutions and the capability to custom fit a service solution based on consumer centric requirements. As a result a service consumer can focus on its requirements instead of bearing the burden of discovery and matching.

According to embodiments of the present invention consumers may regard the marketplace as custom fitting a service solution to their needs. The marketplace is able to not only determine a candidate service solution but is also able customize such a solution to fit the consumer s needs for example by composing more than one candidate s solutions. For example after a consumer states a need for a payroll service solution the marketplace is able to determine that a plurality of candidate solutions may apply. However the solutions may vary depending on the size of the business and whether payroll data could be maintained in the cloud or the data needs to stay on the premises. According to embodiments of the present invention after engaging in a conversation with the consumer the marketplace can determine a more precise solution to fit the consumer s needs. For example if payroll data need to be maintained on premise and a third party solution could be used the marketplace could also perform an adaptation of ADP e.g. a semi automated adaptation with for example a SAP solution providing an instance of the composition and return a uniform resource locator URL for the consumer to start using the service.

A system that attempts to custom fit a service solution to a consumer s business needs is dependent on its solution repository its deep question answering DeepQA ability and its ability to internalize its previous experience. DeepQA relates to a computer system performing open domain question answering and a systems ability to deliver precise meaningful responses and synthesize integrate and rapidly reason over the breadth of human knowledge as it is most rapidly and naturally produced in natural language text. DeepQA relates to the accessibility of natural language content and the integration and advancement of Natural Language Processing NLP Information Retrieval Machine Learning Knowledge Representation and Reasoning and parallel computation that drives open domain automatic question answering technology.

A system s solution repository DeepQA ability and ability to internalize its previous experience are referred to as the intelligence of a services marketplace. These features can also be relevant to a service provider who may be interested in incorporating service knowledge from service characterizations.

Service descriptions for directories for web services that go beyond those found in conventional marketplaces allow service consumers to discover and use suitable service offerings. In particular in accordance with embodiments of the present invention such descriptions include more sophisticated classification schemes that reflect the vocabulary of the target service consumer.

Service repository products may incorporate semantic metadata into service descriptions. For example a conventional service repository product may load and parse web ontology language OWL files but does not exploit any of the richer semantics of the OWL language. Instead the taxonomy part of the OWL file e.g. the owl Class and rdfs subClassOf elements is made available to classify artifacts in service repository product which can be referred to as a classification system.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention an intelligent services marketplace includes more for example orders of magnitude more service offerings than existing web service marketplaces and has more information about those service offerings. The intelligent services marketplace includes service offerings in various domains such as for example insurance payroll health care accounting etc. and includes variations of the service offerings such as for example a payroll service customized to fit payroll data on premise and another one using an ad hoc payroll data format. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention an intelligent services marketplace includes simple service offerings such as for example a stock quote service and composite service offerings such as for example a financial services application that includes a stock quote service as well as a trading service. In connection with the information about the service offerings the intelligent services marketplace is informed about the service offerings service interfaces and for example has semantic knowledge about what the service does its application domain and its points of variability.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention an intelligent services marketplace is also able to perform DeepQA over a vast knowledge base of service offering metadata including syntactic and semantic knowledge. For example the intelligent services marketplace is able to complement classic knowledge based approaches with recent advances in NLP Information Retrieval and Machine Learning to interpret and reason over large volumes of service offering metadata to find precise results as opposed to unmanageable numbers of hits that a traditional search engine might return with reasonably accurate confidence as opposed to the logical proof of correctness that a classic QA system might attempt .

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention in a cloud services marketplace there is defined a high level architecture that brings together the enablers enumerated into functional modules that 1 support service providers and consumers and 2 embody a marketplace platform and cloud abstraction layer.

The services marketplace module serves as the main platform for the services marketplace. The services marketplace module contains various kinds of metadata in the SKB as well as a number of marketplace support services including service composition tools and a service cloud manager .

The SKB can be referred to as a service store or service knowledge network and is a main repository of knowledge that is obtained from any characterization of a service. Service knowledge comprises both features inherent to a service as well as cross service relationships. The SKB includes a collection of service knowledge representation items encoded using various types of machine processable representations semantic as well as syntactic in any format or machine language that is obtained from any service characterization and according to an embodiment each representation type having its own processing agent. A service characterization is anything that describes documents or otherwise elucidates what a service is about including but not limited to a service description a service interface service documentation and or service implementation code.

The SKB includes one or more parameters each parameter being for example a pluggable parameter that can be fulfilled by plugging in some other service knowledge representation item or a user parameter that needs to be fulfilled by user input. A pluggable parameter is not a user parameter. A pluggable parameter can be for example a variable in a program that the program itself can set to a value that it finds as opposed to asking the user for a value for that variable. For example the SKB may include service definitions that the SKB finds that become a value for a particular parameter. If a parameter is pluggable the system is able to assign the found service definition to that pluggable parameter. A user parameter is one that the system does not know how to fill in whereby the recourse is to ask the user for a value for that user parameter.

The SKB also contains background knowledge about context in which services operate and provides various levels of query and update interfaces and maintains knowledge about consumers and providers in one or more social networks.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention two functions of the service consumer module in support of service consumers are to provide a conversational interface to consumers and to perform service specification mining based on service knowledge queries.

Given a request from a consumer user in for example modalities such as natural language but not excluding generated choices the conversational interface engages in a conversation with the consumer. The conversational interface generates a service knowledge query from the initial request that it forwards downstream for processing. This processing may yield choices for the user to make in order to narrow down the customization process which the conversational interface uses to generate questions for the consumer. According to an embodiment where the conversational interface acquires a service consumer request for a service solution the consumer pushes the request to the conversational interface . Alternatively the conversational interface pulls the request from the consumer.

A task of the service specification mining module is to mine the SKB for service solutions based on input service knowledge queries . Once a result set is obtained the result set is processed with the goal of zeroing in on one or more solutions for the consumer. In order to do this the elements of the result are analyzed to determine criteria on which to continue asking questions. As this iterative process is performed the service specification mining module also maintains a conversation state as questions to a consumer are asked and answered. According to an embodiment the conversational state is maintained on a per service consumer basis.

The service specification mining module determines at decision block whether a next query is to be issued. If yes the service specification mining module computes a new query to be issued on the SKB based on any pluggable parameter in any of the service knowledge representation items in the current conversational state wherein any such parameter has not been deemed unpluggable. The service specification mining module then marks the pluggable parameter used to generate the new query as queried. If there is no next query at block the service specification mining module analyzes the conversational state to find a solution. The service specification mining module analyzes each service knowledge representation item in its conversational state in order to determine whether or not a custom fit service solution can be developed. According to an embodiment there may be one or a configurably small number of service knowledge representation items in the current conversational state each one of said items having no unbound parameters.

According to an embodiment if the service specification mining module determines that a service solution can be arrived at the service specification mining module synthesizes a custom fit service solution from its conversational state. Therefore in this case at decision block the answer is yes and the service specification mining module returns the solution to the conversational interface to respond to the consumer at block . The synthesized service solution may or may not exist as a service knowledge representation item in the SKB . According to an embodiment where the service specification mining module synthesizes a custom fit service solution from its conversational state the service specification mining module composes the solution from service knowledge representation items s s s . . . sin its conversational state by plugging s s . . . sinto s where n 2.

According to an embodiment if the service specification mining module determines that a service solution cannot be found at block then the service specification mining module queries whether the service request can be fulfilled automatically at block . If it is determined that a request cannot be fulfilled automatically the service specification mining module engages a human consultant to continue the procedure at block . For example if every service knowledge representation item in the current conversational state includes only unpluggable parameters the service specification mining module determines that the service request cannot be filled automatically and a consultant is engaged as per block .

Alternatively if the system is able to find values for the pluggable parameters so that the parameters are not deemed unpluggable it can be determined that a request can be fulfilled automatically e.g. yes at block and the service specification mining module selects a subset of user parameters from the service knowledge representation items in the current conversational state and passes them to the conversational interface . The conversational interface computes a question based on the user parameters and presents the question to the consumer at block .

On receipt of a consumer s answer the conversational interface computes a new query to be issued on the SKB at block and forwards the new query to the service specification mining module thereby restarting the process at block .

An architectural property of a cloud services marketplace according to an embodiment of the present invention is the feedback loop that allows for new service compositions to be assetized and for these assets to contribute back to the service knowledge base thus enabling the evolution of the service knowledge base and making subsequent comparable cloud solution delivery easier. Referring to for example according to an embodiment the service specification mining module provides new service compositions to the service assetization module to assetize the new service compositions which are then provided to the SKB .

According to an embodiment of the present invention another architectural property is the ease with which the marketplace enables stakeholders to change roles. As a result of embodiments of the present invention it is simpler for an average service provider or developer to be a service consumer of other services within the marketplace. In addition by virtue of the conversational interface and provided service composition tools a cloud services marketplace according to an embodiment of the present invention also enables the average service consumer to become a service provider by assetizing and contributing a custom fit composed services solution that may solve a recurring need into the marketplace.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system apparatus method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

One or more embodiments can make use of software running on a general purpose computer or workstation. With reference to in a computing node there is a computer system server which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed cloud computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer system server may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer system server may be practiced in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in computer system server in computing node is shown in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer system server may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor .

The bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

The computer system server typically includes a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer system server and it includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

The system memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory . The computer system server may further include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to the bus by one or more data media interfaces. As depicted and described herein the memory may include at least one program product having a set e.g. at least one of program modules that are configured to carry out the functions of embodiments of the invention. A program utility having a set at least one of program modules may be stored in memory by way of example and not limitation as well as an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a networking environment. Program modules generally carry out the functions and or methodologies of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

Computer system server may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system server and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system server to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via Input Output I O interfaces . Still yet computer system server can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system server via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system server . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

Embodiments of the present invention target general IT cloud services which need a more comprehensive service descriptor than the existing web services e.g. booking airline tickets work handles and cover a broader definition of API for example going beyond simple object access protocol SOAP into representational state transfer REST and distributed component object model DCOM .

Embodiments of the present invention provide custom fit service solutions for consumers add a new layer of custom fit service solutions to the integration as a service IaaS platform as a service PaaS and software as a service SaaS clouds allow providers to retail and differentiate their services and provide for warehousing and a deep understanding of large amounts of service knowledge. In addition embodiments of the present invention enable social networking of consumers and providers and provide economics and operational capabilities that allow for price negotiation and differentiation. Embodiments of the present invention can use a relatively small number of enabling technologies to realize the desired results and to provide a starting point onto which additional enabling technologies can be integrated in the future.

Although illustrative embodiments of the present invention have been described herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various other changes and modifications may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

