---

title: Controlling implied markets during a stop loss trigger
abstract: A system mitigates the effects of a market spike caused by the triggering and the election of a conditional order in an automated matching system. Conditional orders submitted to a trading engine are evaluated to compare a price of an order to a predetermined price range. Matching of the orders may be delayed when the price of the orders lies outside of the predetermined price range. An opening price to be used by the trading engine is derived and a time interval is used to delay a matching of the orders until the opening price is within a predetermined price range up to a maximum delay time set by a control center. Implied spreads are also removed until other instruments within a trading unit are verified open.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633394&OS=09633394&RS=09633394
owner: Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc.
number: 09633394
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120809
---
This application is a divisional application under 37 C.F.R. 1.53 b of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 227 729 filed Sep. 8 2011 which is a divisional application under 37 C.F.R. 1.53 b of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 900 756 filed Sep. 13 2007 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 713 126 filed Nov. 14 2003 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 490 145 filed Jul. 25 2003. The entire content of these applications are incorporated by reference in their entirety except that in the event of any inconsistent disclosure from the present disclosure the disclosure herein shall be deemed to prevail.

This invention relates to monitoring financial transactions and particularly to mediating an unbalanced market.

The speed in which trades are executed through electronic trading systems provide many benefits. Electronic trading systems can facilitate a large number of market transactions. The greater the number of market transactions the greater a market s liquidity. In liquid markets prices are driven by competition prices reflect a consensus of an investment s value and trading systems provide a free and open dissemination of information.

While speed and efficiency in electronic markets can enhance trader wealth these qualities can also increase the adverse affect of a trade that triggers an election of buy or sell stop orders. In a futures market that has few resting orders but many stop orders an order executed at a limit price can cause a cascading execution of buy or sell stop orders. The triggering and election of these stop orders can seem almost instantaneous lowering the value of a market in just a few seconds.

A problem may occur when one or more trades bring many stop orders into the market. A fast execution of these stop orders may prevent opposite side orders from entering the market preventing buyers from competing against other buyers and sellers from competing against other sellers. An onset of stop orders may enter the market in the following sequence 

The entire process may be illustrated through a hypothetical E Mini S P 500 futures market ESM3 . In Table 1 an order entered on the bid side of the market for a quantity of 1 at a price of 873.75 trades. As the order trades multiple stop orders enter the market which in turn trade and bringing other stop orders into the market. In the ESM3 market 

After the cascading triggers of stop orders trade the final resting price of the market drops to 884.75.

To mitigate the harmful effects of a cascading trigger of stop orders some exchanges have adopted policies and procedures that in the appropriate case permit the cancellation or busting of selected trades. However the cancellation or busting of trades does not occur simultaneously and is not in the best interest of market participants. An exchange must first identify the problem and then decide on a solution.

In the hypothetical E Mini S P 500 futures market first the exchange must determine what caused the market movement. Once that problem is discovered the exchange would then have to decide if the market movement lies outside of a no bust range. In a no bust range trades executed within a price range may not be subject to cancellation even if executed in error. Trades executed at prices outside of the exchange s no bust range are considered as quite possibly being beyond normal market forces. Considering the high interdependence of many markets disruptions may occur in other related markets such as the Nasdaq 100 Index or a larger S P 500 futures contract that are highly correlated to the hypothetical E Mini S P 500.

While such decisions are considered traders are exposed to serious market risk until a decision is made and until they are notified of the decision. Furthermore traders will not know if their gains or loses will be reversed. Traders that were short before the cascade of stop order triggers occurred and bought at the bottom of the market may not realize expected gains. Similarly traders that went long after the market dip could lose their expected gains. Because gains and loses may disappear the instant an exchange announces that trades will be busted some traders will not spend unrealized money on new trades. Other traders may be forced out of the market until the decision to bust trades is reached to avoid an unexpected margin call.

Another problem may occur when a stop loss trigger occurs in more than one market with a same or overlapping time period. In particular products may be linked with each other such that movement in the market for one product may affect movement in the market for one or more other products. In addition a product may form one or more legs of an implied spread market. An implied spread is a difference between two prices such as a difference between futures prices for two related products. Implied spreads may add additional contracts to the market where there would otherwise have been less activity for products. Whereas an outright order is a real order for a product an implied spread order may be generated by the electronic trading system based on the combination of outright orders or spreads that are pending in the electronic trading system. A spread may provide a market where a strategy trade can be made by leveraging liquidity in component markets. The electronic trading system may identify an implied spread order by combining outright orders for related products. Examples of implied spreads include Implied In Implied Out Calendar Spreads Butterfly Spreads Crack Spreads and other strategy types.

Because the implied spread market pricing is determined by pricing of the products that make up legs of implied spread orders a stop loss trigger in one product of an implied spread could adversely affect the implied spread market. In addition since the markets for products are often linked a stop loss trigger may occur for more than one product in the same time period. When this occurs the implied spread market based on these products may be adversely affected.

The present invention is directed to a system and method that overcome some of these potential drawbacks in the prior art.

The present invention is defined by the following claims. This description summarizes some aspects of the present embodiments and should not be used to limit the claims.

A system mitigates a spike caused by a triggering of conditional orders for products within a trading unit in an automated matching system. The system includes evaluation logic delay logic pricing logic timing logic and verification logic. The evaluation logic monitors orders submitted to an automated trading engine. The evaluation logic compares an execution price of a conditional order to a predetermined price range. The delay logic delays matching orders submitted to the automated trading engine when the execution price of the order lies outside of the predetermined price range. The pricing logic derives an opening price to be used by the automated trading engine. The timing logic measures a time interval used to delay a matching of the orders until the opening price is within a second predetermined price range or an interval of time lapses. The verification logic delays restarting a matching of implied orders until the products within the trading unit are verified as not in a stop loss condition.

A method of mitigating a spike caused by a triggering of conditional orders for products within a trading unit includes monitoring orders submitted to the automated trading engine. The method compares an execution price of a conditional order to a predetermined price range and delays the matching of orders submitted to the automated trading engine when an execution price of the order lies outside of the predetermined price range. The method derives an opening price to be used by the automated trading engine and measures the time interval that delays the matching of the orders until the opening price is within a second predetermined price range or a time interval lapses. The method verifies that products within the trading unit are not in a stop loss condition and delays the matching of the implied orders until the other products within the trading unit are not in a stop loss condition. The method may be repeated to ensure that the opening price reflects a current market movement.

An alternative or additional embodiment includes a matching engine. When a matched order changes a last traded price level a matching engine checks a stop order book to determine if any new stop orders can be introduced into the market. When a difference between an original price and a currently traded price caused by a stop order execution reaches a predetermined threshold the matching engine sends a command to reserve or temporarily suspend matching for a predetermined period of time thus allowing opposite side orders to enter the system in response to this event.

While trading is suspended an indicative opening price IOP is calculated and stop orders resting orders and newly arriving orders resolve into a single price opening. In this embodiment the single price opening may use pre opening and circuit breaker logic used in exchanges. The nature of this opening is such that stop orders once synthetically introduced during a reserved or pre opening state are filled in a limit price priority sequence instead of in the trigger price sequence used in some continuous trading systems. The implied spreads having at least one common leg with the reserved market are disabled until all markets within the associated trading unit are confirmed open or not held in reserve. This effectively breaks a stop order ladder for all the reserved products within a trading unit as well as all implied spreads based off those products. Each individual market in the trading unit that is not reserved may still trade outright orders in a non implied fashion during the window when the implied spreads are disabled.

An alternative or additional method checks the value of a single price opening and compares the price to the last traded price to verify that the price is within the previously specified threshold. If it is not within the threshold another timing window will lapse and the method check is repeated at a second predetermined threshold such as twice a predetermined threshold etc. After a predetermined or programmed number of iterations of timing windows lapses or a manual intervention occurs the product opens and the matching engine matches orders regardless of a price movement. Any implied spreads based on the product are disabled until all products within the associated trading unit are confirmed open or not held in reserve.

Further aspects and advantages of the invention are described below in conjunction with the present embodiments.

The system mitigates or prevents market spikes due to the triggering election and trading of conditional orders. The system includes an automated trading engine that performs a verification of a tradable conditional order that is triggered to ensure that a traded price will not violate a predetermined trade threshold or existing exchange matching rules. If a potential trade price lies outside of the trade threshold the instrument is placed in a reserved state allowing orders to be entered modified and or cancelled. Implied spreads that are resting on the order book based off or having a common leg with the instrument held in reserve are disabled so only non implied outright orders can match on the remaining unreserved instruments in the trading unit.

While an instrument may not trade when it is reserved an indicative opening price of that instrument may be derived and disseminated to the market. The indicative opening price may reflect the price the instrument would be trading at if the market were open. Placing an instrument in a reserved state allows additional orders to be entered into the market from market participants. The additional orders may adjust the indicative opening price to a level that reflects buyers competing with other buyers and sellers vying against other sellers. The present embodiments may suspend trading until the market is adjusted within a threshold range and or when a period of time lapses. The period of time may vary in length in relation to the time of day the product traded market volatility and or any other relevant market condition or combination of market conditions. Similarly the threshold range may vary by the product and or the time of day.

Before the implied spreading is re enabled the system may examine other instruments within the associated trading unit to verify that the other instruments are not in reserve. If the other instruments in the trading unit are in reserve the system may delay matching the implied spread orders until the other instruments are not in reserve. When the system verifies that the other instruments are not in reserve the implied spread prices are repopulated an implied opening takes place and full implied trading is re enabled.

In the clients are illustrated as interfaces and one or more networks such as a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a ring network a token ring network a bus network and etc. Other peripheral devices may be coupled to hub such as a printer a speaker and or any other device.

Preferably the hub comprises a management server. The management server receives converts and transfers data in a form compatible with protocols used by servers a communication link the interfaces and or the networks and . The interfaces may include an application programming interface an API a data interface a market data interface and or other interfaces for example. Preferably the market data interface provides quote vendors with access to selected output disseminated from the hub .

In the hub provides routing control to a trade matching system such as an automated trading engine shown as servers and . When orders are matched automatically by a matching algorithm or system within one or both of the servers and or preferably the details of the trade and information of interest to the market are disseminated to quote vendors and trade participants that include the buyers and the sellers.

Preferably the trade evaluation system shown as servers in interfaces the hub . In the embodiment of the trade evaluation system may include an order book manager an order processor a spike control processor a reserve market processor an open market processor and an open implied market processor . In the trade evaluation system may include evaluation logic delay logic pricing logic timing logic and verification logic . Preferably the evaluation logic and the order processor calculate a price threshold or a price that extends above or below a selected or a theoretical price. Such a threshold or interval may be fixed within a number of ticks above and below a last traded price. The threshold or interval may vary by product instrument contract or other relevant market considerations.

When the system is used in a futures exchange the price threshold or range may comprise a no bust range that defines a price interval within which transactions that fall within that interval are not subject to cancellation by the exchange. Preferably trades that fall within the no bust range do not have a significant adverse effect on the market and therefore the trade stands even in error. In these embodiments the trades that fall within the no bust range cannot be cancelled by agreement. In other embodiments trades that fall within the no bust range may be cancelled by an agreement between market participants.

Preferably the market data interfaces the data interfaces the networks and the APIs and the other interfaces provide market participants quote vendors and others with real and or delayed time access to trade data. The trade data can include investment prices such as futures contract prices settlement prices bids offers and other exchange related or derived information. In some embodiments inter process communication methods such as a Dynamic Data Exchange DDE and or an Object Linking and Embedding OLE are used to exchange data and commands between two or more servers or applications that run simultaneously.

As shown in the trade evaluation system includes an order book manager an order processor a spike control processor a reserve market processor an open market processor and an open implied market processor . Preferably orders flow into the order processor and are maintained by the order book manager . The order book manager may maintain the exchange s order books manage communication with an automated trading engine and allow an exchange administrator to establish order filters e.g. trading authorizations instrument access price bands trading limits etc. .

The order book manager may also retain a predetermined or a programmable parameter used by order process logic or the order processor . In this embodiment instrument parameters are stored in a table of rows and columns. In another embodiment the parameters are stored in a data structure comprising a list of entries that use a unique key to identify each entry. The data structure may include a set of related values such as a linked list that use a common indexing scheme. In these embodiments an instrument is reserved when the instrument is stored in a data table or data structure.

Preferably parameters are initialized on start up of an automated trading engine and are maintained for a predetermined period of time such as a trading week. When a conditional order is triggered in a futures market such as a stop order that enters the market at a limit or market price the order processor compares an execution price of the stop order to a predetermined price threshold such as a no bust range. Preferably this comparison determines if the transaction may be completed. If an execution price lies outside of the predetermined price threshold the order processor notifies the spike control processor .

Once notified the spike control processor reserves the instrument through a reserve market processor and activates a verification timer. The spike control processor may also reserve implied markets related to or based off the reserved instrument. Implied markets may include orders for implied spreads that include legs for related products and instruments. The verification timer may measure a time interval that varies in length in relation to a time of day a product a trader s location market volatility and or any other relevant market conditions or combination of market conditions. At the end of an initial time period the spike control processor compares an indicative opening price to the predetermined price threshold. If the indicative opening price is above below the predetermined threshold the verification timer is reactivated for an additional iteration that may vary with one or more market conditions. In this embodiment the indicative opening price is a changing price that may be based on an indicative trade a better bid or a better offer. Similarly a predetermined price threshold may comprise a dynamic price range that changes with each iteration.

The spike control processor will reserve a market unless the indicative opening price lies within the predetermined price threshold a predetermined number of iterations or time periods lapse or a manual intervention occurs. When one of those conditions occurs the spike control processor notifies the open market processor to open the market. The spike control processor will also reserve an implied market related to or based off a reserved instrument until all the products within an associated trading unit are not in reserve. Once all the products within an associated trading unit of an implied spread are not in reserve the spike control processor notifies the open implied market processor to open the implied market.

One variable utilized by the spike control processor identifies the duration that an instrument may be held in reserve. A price verification time variable is invoked and a timer activated when the order processor invokes the spike control processor . The price verification time variable comprises a programmable or a constant time value.

The spike control processor also uses a price iteration variable. The price iteration variable comprises a programmable multiplier. Preferably the product of the price iteration variable and price verification time variable calculates a maximum length of time an instrument may remain in a reserved state. If the price verification time variable is five seconds and the price iteration variable is eleven the maximum time the market may be in a reserved state is fifty five seconds. The time variables are initialized on start up and are maintained for a length of time such as a trading week. If the variables are changed before the period lapses such as in the middle of a trading week the variables may be update in a real or a delayed time.

Another embodiment of the trade evaluation system shown in couples an automated trading engine and . In this embodiment the trade evaluation system includes evaluation logic delay logic pricing logic timing logic and verification logic . Preferably the evaluation logic monitors orders submitted to an automated matching system or automated trading engine and . The evaluation logic may compare an execution price of a conditional order such as a stop order to a predetermined price range. Preferably the price ranges reflects a range of prices that extend above and below an actual or synthetic market price. The price range may differ by product may be fixed within a number of ticks above and below an actual or synthetic market price or may vary above and below an actual or synthetic market price. Additionally a synthetic no bust range may also be used including the no bust ranges disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 10 405 025 entitled System and Method for Monitoring Trades of a No Bust Range in an Electronic Trading System which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

While in some embodiments price comparisons occur in delayed or batch time preferably the comparison occurs in real time such as within a narrow time period after a potential trade would occur. If the price of the trade is within the price range the trade stands and an open continuous trading is maintained. If the price of the trade caused by the execution of conditional orders falls outside of the price range the evaluation logic places the product into a reserved state. Upon reservation of the product the delay logic determines a maximum time the market may remain in a reserved state.

Pricing logic derives an opening price at which a product would trade upon the opening of the market or an equilibrium price that falls substantially within the overlap of the pending bid and offer prices. The pricing logic calculates opening prices upon demand in delayed time or in real time as orders are received. The delay logic delays the matching of orders submitted to the automated trading engine and . The delay will reserve a product until an opening price lies within a price range a period of time lapses or an automated or a manual intervention occurs. Price ranges delay and or the measure of time are retained in an audit trail and or memory coupled to or resident to the evaluation system . The tracking and or storage of one or more of these values can preserve market integrity and allow an exchange to review an event.

An instrument of an implied spread order may also be held in reserve. Before the implied matching is re enabled the verification logic may look at the other instruments in the trading unit to verify that the other instruments within the trading unit are not held in reserve. A trading unit may include related products and instruments and the orders for these other instruments may be used to populate implied spread markets. The relationship of the products and instruments may be stored within a database within the trading system and the verification logic may access the database to determine which products and instruments may be part of an implied spread trading unit. When the verification logic determines that no other instruments within the trading unit are held in reserve the implied spread tables for the trading unit are re populated. If the verification logic identifies at least one other instrument of the trading unit held in reserve the verification logic will delay the matching of implied spread orders until the reserve for all instruments within the trading unit is removed

As shown in one or more of the components that comprise the trade evaluation system of may couple a control center and the trade matching system and . Preferably the trade matching system and uses one or more matching systems or methods such as a first in first out FIFO an allocation a hybrid price time priority such as a Lead Market Maker LMM for example or any other matching systems or methods to automatically match orders. Once the details of the orders are entered through a user interface preferably the trade matching system and executes the trade and transmits matched trade data e.g. instrument type the price the quantity the buyer the seller etc. to the trade evaluation system and the user interface . The trade matching system and also transmits matched trade data and quote data to the quote and data vendors and . Preferably the matched trade data and quote data describe recent market movements.

Through a control center preferably an exchange or a member of the exchange oversees the reservation of products in the market. The control center may manually or automatically override the trade evaluation system or perform a state change on any product instrument parameter or group. The control center may view configure and program the predetermined price thresholds and timing variables of to any market condition or combination of market conditions just as it may view configure and program the logic of to such market conditions.

To assure that market participants and the exchange are aware of the status of the market or any changes to thresholds variables or logic preferably the evaluation system may provide a notice to the user interfaces and the control center and any communication system. In some instances each of the embodiments may provide selected notices only to the control center allowing the exchange to notify the market of certain conditions if needed through a messaging system.

Because market participants may not be aware that a product or an instrument is reserved due to the large volume of messages sent over an electronic trading system or because the market participants are no longer trading the present system and method also may encompass independent communication systems that are coupled to the trade evaluation system to convey information warnings or alerts about an instrument in a reserved state. Such systems can include devices that send and or receive messages via telecommunication or wireless links such as portable phones personal digital assistants PDAs and or electronic mail devices devices that send and or receive images and can print them on a tangible media such as faxes etc. Preferably these systems make market participants aware of the state of the market in a narrow timeframe.

The present system and method mitigates or prevents market spikes caused by the triggering election and trading of conditional orders. The present system and method also mitigates or prevents market spikes and inaccurate quotes for implied spreads caused by the triggering election and trading of conditional orders on one or more related instruments of a trading unit. An embodiment of the method may be translated into a computer readable medium programming instructions e.g. code or information that can be stored and retrieved from a volatile or non volatile memory.

Any exchange such as a futures exchange that enforces a no bust range or another price range may use the method shown in . The method may be encoded in a signal bearing medium a computer readable medium such as a memory programmed within a device such as one or more integrated circuits or processed by a controller a computer a server or a server cluster. If the methods are performed by code or software the code or software may reside in a memory resident to or interfaced to the trade matching system and of a communication interface or any other type of non volatile or volatile memory interfaced or resident to the trade evaluation system of . The memory may include an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. A logical function may be implemented through digital circuitry through source code or through analog circuitry. The code or software may be embodied in any computer readable or signal bearing medium for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system apparatus or device. Such a system may include a computer based system a processor containing system or another system that may selectively fetch instructions from an instruction executable system apparatus or device that may also execute instructions.

A computer readable medium machine readable medium propagated signal medium and or signal bearing medium includes any and all systems components apparatuses and or devices that contain store communicate propagate and or transport code or software for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system component apparatus or device. The machine readable medium may selectively be but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. A non exhaustive list of examples of a machine readable medium would include an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable magnetic or optical disk a volatile memory such as a Random Access Memory RAM a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Read Only Memory ROM an Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM or Flash memory an electrical Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and an optical fiber optical . A machine readable medium may also include a tangible medium upon which code or software is printed as the code or software may be translated into a high level language that may be compiled through a scanner and or interpreted or otherwise processed. The processed medium may then be stored in a computer and or machine memory.

As shown in a stop order is triggered and enters the market at a limit price or at a market price at act . In this embodiment a stop order sometimes called a stop loss order or simply a stop is an order to buy or sell at a limit price when the market reaches a specified price. A limit price is a specified price or a price that is more favorable to the trader. A limit order to buy will be executed at or below the specified price limit A limit order to sell will be executed at or above the specified price limit.

At act the method compares an execution price to a no bust range that is calculated separately for each product or instrument. The no bust range may comprise a synthetic price range or a last traded price plus or minus a no bust range variable.

If the price of the trade lies within the no bust range the trade stands and open continuous trading is maintained at acts and . The process will then be applied each time a stop order would create a trade. A price comparison is performed at each tradable price level of the market.

If the price of the trade falls outside of the no bust range preferably the product is placed into a reserved state at acts and . Preferably any implied spreads related to the product are also placed into a reserved state or cleared at acts and . For example related products or instruments that form legs of an implied spread order may be placed in reserve at acts and . Upon its reservation a timer that is coupled to or resident to an automated trading engine is activated. A counter will also be activated to track the number of times an indicative opening price verification process is performed.

In the illustrated embodiment the counter is initialized to 1 at act . Preferably the counter cannot exceed a value that is retained in a table or a data structure. If more than one comparison to an indicative opening price occurs a varying price range e.g. an expanded no bust range will be determined for verification of an indicative opening price. The varying price range may comprise a product of the no bust range and a multiplier. Preferably the multiplier increases incrementally or in multiples each time an indicative opening price verification occurs.

Once a predetermined length of time lapses an indicative opening price and a price range are calculated and broadcast to the market through a data feed at acts and . The indicative opening price represents a price at which a product would trade upon an opening of a market. An indicative opening price may comprise an equilibrium price that falls within an overlap of bid and offer prices.

A comparison of an indicative opening price to a calculated price range occurs at act . If the indicative opening price lies within the price range the process may verify that related products and instruments within an implied trading unit are not being held in reserve at act . When all related products and instruments within an implied trading unit are verified as not being held in reserve the market may open at act and trading begins at the indicative opening price or a market price. The process resumes when another stop order is triggered at act .

If the indicative opening price lies outside of the price range process variables are incremented at acts and and the process continues until a predetermined number of iterations is reached at act . When a maximum number of iterations are reached the process may verify that related products and instruments within an implied trading unit are not being held in reserve at act . Once related products within an implied trading unit are verified as not being held in reserve a product may reopen at act and the process resumes when another stop order is triggered at act .

If a maximum number of iterations is not reached the process resumes when the time variable is read or programmed at act and another indicative opening price is calculated. At act the indicative opening price is a dynamic price that changes as orders are entered into the market and pending orders are modified and or cancelled. The present method continues until a predetermined number of iterations is reached or an external event occurs. An external event may include the closing of the market or a manual market intervention.

The above described embodiments scale well to large networks to new products or to the large volatility that occurs in the markets that trade popular contracts. The embodiments may facilitate any exchange between buyers and sellers including markets that exchange equities debt investment indices and other investments as well as any commodity or combination or series of commodity contracts such as bundles that can comprise the purchase of one of a series of consecutive contracts.

When the trade evaluation system is integrated or linked to an automated trading engine that matches spreads all related spreads are automatically reserved when the spread lies outside of a predetermined threshold. When reserved all related spread instruments are reserved and any implied spreading becomes inactive. When the market is allowed to open all spreads including implied spreads corresponding to an underlying leg may open.

As shown in the trade evaluation system may couple a control center . Through the control center an exchange administrator may take an appropriate action on a spread and manually open corresponding spreads. Under these circumstances the implied spreading will remain inactive for a remainder of a trading session. An exchange administrator may also set a group of differing contracts to a pre opening take appropriate action on the spread and reset an opening for the group of differing contracts.

The present embodiments described above provide exchanges and users with a flexible approach and structure that mitigates or prevent sharp rises or declines in market prices due to the triggering election and trading of conditional orders. To further illustrate the present embodiments exemplary markets are described and illustrated.

In a first example a price verification time is programmed to five seconds and the initial no bust range is six.

With the market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs when an Incoming Buy of 1 873.75 enters the market 

The market is placed in a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 880.75 would violate the no bust range. The no bust range for ES is currently six. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 873.75 the market will not trade past a price of 879.75. The order book will display the following in a reserved state 

After waiting a predetermined length of time if the indicative opening price is greater than twice the no bust range 12.00 from the original last price the market will remain in a reserved state for a second time iteration. In this example the market will be allowed to open at or near the end of the five second delay and the following trade will take place using normal indicative opening price logic 

In a second example an imbalance condition occurs during execution of a single conditional order. When a sell order enters the market for a quantity of 1 at 860.00 a cascade of stop orders is triggered. In this example the minimum price that can be traded for this trading session is 854.00.

With the market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs when an Incoming Sell of 1 860.00 enters the market 

The market is placed in a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 853.00 would violate the no bust range. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 860.00 the market will not trade past a price of 854.00. The order book will display the following in a reserved state 

After waiting the preset length of time if the indicative opening price is greater than twice the no bust range 12.00 from the original last price the market will remain in a reserved state for a second time iteration. In this example the market will be allowed to open at or near the end of the five second delay and the following trade will take place 

In a third example an upper no bust range violation occurs. Like the other examples the price verification time is programmed to about a five second interval and the initial no bust range is about six.

In this example a buy order enters the market for a quantity of at 873.75. The maximum price that can be traded for this trading iteration is 879.75.

With the market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs if Incoming1 Buy of 1 873.75 enters the market 

The market is placed in a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 884.75 would violate the no bust range. The no bust range for ES is currently six. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 873.75 the market will not trade past a price of 879.75. The order book will display the following in a reserved state 

After waiting a predetermined length of time if the indicative opening price is greater than twice the no bust range 12.00 from the original last price the market will remain in a reserved state for a second time iteration. In this example the market will be allowed to open at or near the end of the five second delay and the following trade will take place 

In a fourth example a lower no bust range violation occurs. Like the other examples the price verification time is programmed to about a five second interval and the initial no bust range is about six.

In this example a sell order enters the market for a quantity of 1 at 860.75. The maximum price that can be traded for this trading iteration is 854.75.

With the market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs if Incoming1 Sell of 1 860.75 enters the market 

The market is placed in a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 854.50 would violate the no bust range. The no bust range for ES is currently six. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 860.75 the market will not trade past a price of 854.75. The order book will display the following in a reserved state 

After waiting a predetermined length of time if the indicative opening price is greater than twice the no bust range 12.00 from the original last price the market will remain in a reserved state for a second time iteration. In this example the market will be allowed to open at or near the end of the five second delay and the following trade will take place 

In a fifth example a manual intervention occurs. Like the other examples the price verification time is programmed to about a five second interval.

In this example a sell order enters the market for a quantity of 1 at 874.00. The minimum price that can be traded for this trading iteration is 868.00. The ESM3 market should be reserved when violating the no bust range at 868.00. However due to a manual intervention the five second iteration variable is overridden. The instrument will re open by a manually initiating of an opening command.

With the market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs if Incoming1 Sell of 1 874.00 enters the market.

The market is placed in a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 867.50 would violate the no bust range. The no bust range for ES is currently six. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 874.00 the market will not trade past a price of 868.00. The order book will display the following in a reserved state 

Due to a manual intervention the instrument will not re open until an exchange administrator performs an alternate manual intervention to re open the market.

In a sixth example a price comparison to a multiple of the no bust range occurs. When a sell order enters the market for a quantity of 1 at 865.75 a cascade of stop orders is triggered. The minimum price that may be traded for the first trading iteration is 859.75 1 and the minimum price that may be traded for the second iteration is 853.75 2 . The ESM3 market will be reserved at 859.75 one iteration and 853.75 two iterations .

With the market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs if Incoming1 Sell of 1 865.75 enters market 

The market is placed in a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 853.00 would violate the no bust range. The no bust range for ES is currently six. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 865.75 the market will not trade past a price of 859.75 1 and 853.75 2 . The order book will display the following in a reserved state 

After waiting a predetermined length of time if the indicative opening price 853.00 is greater than twice the no bust range 12.00 from the original last price the market will remain in a reserved state for a second time iteration. In this example the market will repeat a second iteration in a reserve state. After the second iteration the market will again validate the indicative opening price and the market will re open because the indicative opening price 853.00 is within the new price range.

In a seventh example an instrument is scheduled to close before the expiration of the stop price validation variable. If the instrument is currently in a reserve state due to a no bust range violation the instrument will proceed to a closed state. The following sequence illustrates this example 

In an eighth example an imbalance condition occurs during execution of a single conditional order. The minimum price that can be traded for this trading iteration is 854.00.

With the market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs if Incoming1 Sell of 1 860.00 enters the market 

The market is placed in a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 853.00 would violate the no bust range. The no bust range for ES is currently six. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 860.00 the market will not trade past a price of 854.00. The order book will display the following in a reserved state 

After waiting a predetermined length of time if the indicative opening price is greater than twice the no bust range 12.00 from the original last price the market will remain in a reserved state for a second time iteration. In this example the market will be allowed to open at the end of the five second delay and the following trade will take place 

In a ninth example the market is in a reserved state. Additional orders are entered which alter the indicative opening price and allow the market to open. If the new limit orders were not entered the market would have remained reserved due to violation of the no bust limit.

With the market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs if Incoming1 Buy of 1 854.00 enters the market 

The market is placed in a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 860.25 would violate the no bust range. The no bust range for ES is currently six. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 854.00 the market will not trade past a price of 860.00. The order book will display the following in a reserved state 

As shown during the reserve state new orders were received. Due to the incoming orders the indicative opening price is now 866.00. After waiting a predetermined length of time if the indicative opening price 866.00 is greater than twice the no bust range 12.00 from the original last price the market will remain in a reserved state for a second iteration. In this example the market will be allowed to re open because the indicative opening price 866.00 is within the new range 866.00 .

In a tenth example the market is reserved. The indicative opening price is a better bid that violates the no bust range and the market remains reserved.

With the market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs if Incoming1 Buy of 1 854.00 enters the market 

The market is placed in a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 866.25 would violate the no bust range. The no bust range for ES is currently six. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 854.00 the market will not trade past a price of 860.00. The order book will display the following in a reserved state 

During the reserved state the remaining offer is cancelled TON 6 and a new order is entered at a price of 867.00. The indicative opening price is currently an 867.00B better bid .

After waiting a predetermined length of time the indicative opening price 867.00B is outside the no bust range of 866.00 2 6.00 and the market will remain in reserved state for a second iteration. After the second iteration is exhausted the indicative opening price lies within the no bust range and the market opens.

In an eleventh example the market is reserved. Upon validation of an indicative opening price an indicative opening price that is a better offer A the market remains reserved because the indicative opening price violates the no bust range.

With the market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs if Incoming1 Sell of 1 865.25 enters the market 

The market is placed in a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 853.00 would violate the no bust range. The no bust range for ES is currently six. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 865.25 the market will not trade past a price of 859.25. The order book will display the following in a reserved state 

During the reserved state the remaining bid is cancelled TON 5 and a better offer enters the market. The indicative opening price is currently an 852.00A better offer .

After waiting a predetermined length of time the indicative opening price 852.00 is outside the no bust range of 853.25 2 6.00 and the market will remain in reserved state for a second iteration. After the second iteration is exhausted the indicative opening price will lie inside the no bust range and the market opens.

In the twelfth example the market is reserved. Upon validation of an indicative opening price an indicative opening price that is a better bid B the market opens because the indicative opening price no longer violates the no bust range.

With the market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs if Incoming1 Buy of 1 854.00 enters the market 

The market is placed in a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 860.25 would violate the no bust range. The no bust range for ES is currently six. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 854.00 the market will not trade past a price of 860.00. The order book will display the following in a reserved state 

During the reserved state the remaining offer is cancelled TON 6 . After waiting a preset length of time the indicative opening price will be the bid price 860.25 which is no longer in violation of the no bust range 866.00 and the market opens.

In a thirteenth example the market is reserved. Upon a validation of the indicative opening price an indicative opening price that is a better offer A that no longer violates the no bust range the market opens.

With the market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs if Incoming1 Sell of 1 865.25 enters the market 

The market is placed in a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 859.00 would violate the no bust range. The no bust range for ES is currently six. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 865.25 the market will not trade past a price of 859.25. The order book will display the following in a reserved state 

During the reserved state the remaining bid is cancelled TON 5 . After waiting a preset length of time the indicative opening price is the offer price 859.00 which is no longer in violation of the no bust range 853.25 and the market opens.

When a buy order enters the market for a quantity of 1 at 861.00 a cascade of stop orders is triggered in a fourteenth example.

With the market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs if Incoming1 Buy of 1 861.00 enters the market 

The market is placed into a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 868.50 would violate the no bust range. The no bust range for ES is currently six. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 861.00 the market will not trade past a price of 867.00. The order book will display the following in a reserved state 

During the first iteration a second incoming order is entered which generates a bias on the bid side of the market. The indicative opening price generated after the second incoming order enters a 10 lot on the bid side and a 12 lot on the offer side at a price of 868.75. After waiting a predetermined length of time if the indicative opening price is greater than twice the no bust range 12.00 from the original last price the market will remain in a reserved state for a second time iteration. In this example the market opens at the end of a five second delay because the indicative opening price 868.75 is not outside the no bust range 873.00 . The following trades then take place 

When a sell order enters the market for a quantity of 1 at 861.00 a cascade of stop orders is triggered in a fifteenth example. The minimum price that can be traded in this trading iteration is 859.25.

With the market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs if Incoming1 Buy of 1 865.25 enters the market 

The market is placed into a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 859.00 would violate the no bust range. The no bust range for ES is currently six. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 865.25 the market will not trade past a price of 859.25. The order book will display the following in a reserved state 

During the first iteration a second incoming order entered generates a bias on the sell side of the market. The indicative opening price generated after the second incoming order enters a 12 lot on the bid side and 10 lot on the offer side with an indicative opening price of 858.75. After waiting a predetermined length of time if the indicative opening price is greater than twice the no bust range 12.00 from the original last price the market will remain in a reserved state for a second time iteration. In this example the market will open at the end of a five second delay because the indicative opening price 858.75 is not outside the no bust range 853.25 .

In a sixteenth example a stop order cascade occurs in the ESM3 market and there is a related product ESU3 that is in an implied trading unit with the ESM3 product. In this example the ESM3 market is allowed to re open and trade outright non implied orders but does not enable implied order trading until the related product ESU3 is no longer being held in reserve. A price verification time is programmed to five seconds and the initial no bust range is six.

With the market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs when an Incoming Buy of 1 873.75 enters the ESM3 market 

The ESM3 market is placed in a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 880.75 would violate the no bust range. The no bust range for ESM3 is currently six. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 873.75 the ESM3 market will not trade past a price of 879.75. The ESM3 order book will display the following in a reserved state 

The related ESU3 product that is in the implied trading unit with ESM3 also has disabled implied order trading due to the reservation of the ESM3 market. The ESU3 market also experiences a stop loss cascade while the ESM3 market is in a reserved state in this example. After waiting a predetermined length of time if the indicative opening price of ESM3 is greater than twice the no bust range 12.00 from the original last price the ESM3 market will remain in a reserved state for a second time iteration.

However the ESM3 market will be allowed to open at or near the end of the five second delay because the indicative opening price of ESM3 is not greater than twice the no bust range pending verification that related products in implied trading units are not being held in reserve. The related product ESU3 is being held in reserve in this example so the ESM3 market opens but only non implied trading of outright orders is allowed and the implied order trading remains disabled. After the related ESU3 market reopens the implied order market reopens for the implied trading unit including ESM3 and ESU3. In addition the following trade will take place in the ESM3 market after reopening using normal indicative opening price logic 

In a seventeenth example a price comparison to a multiple of the no bust range occurs in the ESM3 market. There is a related product ESU3 that is in an implied trading unit with the ESM3 product. In this example the ESU3 market does not reopen until after the ESM3 market is no longer in reserve. When a sell order enters the ESM3 market for a quantity of 1 at 865.75 a cascade of stop orders is triggered. The minimum price that may be traded for the first trading iteration is 859.75 1 and the minimum price that may be traded for the second iteration is 853.75 2 . The ESM3 market will be reserved at 859.75 one iteration and 853.75 two iterations .

With the ESM3 market in a continuous trading state the following sequence occurs if Incoming1 Sell of 1 865.75 enters the ESM3 market 

The ESM3 market is placed in a reserved state because the trade that would occur at a price of 853.00 would violate the no bust range. The no bust range for ESM3 is currently six. Since the stop iteration began with a trade price of 865.75 the ESM3 market will not trade past a price of 859.75 1 and 853.75 2 . The ESM3 order book will display the following in a reserved state 

The related ESU3 product that is in the same implied trading unit as ESM3 is also being held in reserve due to a stop loss cascade in the ESU3 market that occurred within the five second price verification time. After waiting a predetermined length of time if the indicative opening price 853.00 is greater than twice the no bust range 12.00 from the original last price the market will remain in a reserved state for a second time iteration.

The ESM3 market will repeat a second iteration in a reserve state because the indicative opening price is greater than twice the no bust range. In this example the related product ESU3 is being held in reserve because the ESU3 market also had a stop loss cascade but the ESU3 market reopens after a single iteration. However the ESU3 market may only re enable implied order matching if it is verified that related products in implied trading units are not being held in reserve. In this example the ESM3 product related to ESU3 in an implied trading unit is still in reserve due to its second iteration in a reserve state. Therefore the ESU3 market may reopen but only outright non implied orders may be matched until the ESM3 market is no longer being held in reserve.

After the second iteration of the ESM3 market in a reserve state the ESM3 market will again validate the indicative opening price. The ESM3 market will re open because the indicative opening price 853.00 is within the new price range. Because the related ESU3 market is no longer being held in reserve implied order trading may be ren enabled for the trading unit. The following trade may then take place in the ESM3 market 

While some embodiments of the invention have been described it should be apparent that many more embodiments and implementations are possible and are within the scope of this invention. It is intended that the foregoing detailed description be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting and that it be understood that it is the following claims including all equivalents that are intended to define the spirit and scope of this invention.

