---

title: Small data transmission techniques in a wireless communication network
abstract: Embodiments of the present disclosure describe techniques and configurations for transmitting small data payloads in a wireless communication network. An apparatus may include non-access stratum (NAS) circuitry configured to receive a trigger to send a data payload to a wireless communication network, the data payload having a size that is less than a preconfigured threshold, and generate a NAS message including the data payload and access stratum (AS) circuitry coupled with the NAS circuitry and configured to transmit the NAS message including the data payload to a node comprising a Mobility Management Entity (MME) or a Serving GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) Support Node (SGSN). Other embodiments may be described and/or claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544709&OS=09544709&RS=09544709
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09544709
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120627
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 542 726 filed Oct. 3 2011 entitled ADVANCED WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNIQUES the entire specification of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to the field of wireless communication systems and more particularly to techniques and configurations for transmitting small data payloads such as for example Machine Type Communication MTC data in a wireless communication network.

Mobile networks that facilitate transfer of information at broadband rates continue to be developed and deployed. Such networks may be colloquially referred to herein as broadband wireless access BWA networks. A variety of different device types may be used in broadband wireless technologies. Such devices may include for example personal computers smartphone laptops netbooks ultrabooks tablets handheld devices and other consumer electronics such as music players digital cameras etc. that are configured to communicate over the wireless broadband networks.

Machine to Machine M2M may refer to technologies that allow wireless and wired systems to communicate with other devices without any human intervention. M2M may use a device such as for example a sensor or meter to collect information which may be relayed through a network e.g. wireless wired or hybrid to an application that translates the information into meaningful data. The expansion of BWA networks across the world and accompanying increased speed bandwidth and reduced power of wireless communication has facilitated growth of M2M communication. Although the amount of data sent by M2M devices is very small a large number of these devices in combination may increase a load on a network. Current techniques for transmitting small data payloads such as machine type communication MTC data may be inefficient or incompatible with emerging BWA networks.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide techniques and configurations for transmitting small data payloads such as for example Machine Type Communication MTC data in a wireless communication network. In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof wherein like numerals designate like parts throughout and in which is shown by way of illustration embodiments in which the subject matter of the present disclosure may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the present disclosure the phrase A B and or C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C .

The description may use the phrases in an embodiment or in embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments of the present disclosure are synonymous.

As used herein the term module may refer to be part of or include an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC an electronic circuit a processor shared dedicated or group and or memory shared dedicated or group that execute one or more software or firmware programs a combinational logic circuit and or other suitable components that provide the described functionality.

Example embodiments may be described herein in relation to broadband wireless access BWA networks including networks operating in conformance with one or more protocols specified by the 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP and its derivatives the WiMAX Forum the Institute for Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE 802.16 standards e.g. IEEE 802.16 2005 Amendment long term evolution LTE project along with any amendments updates and or revisions e.g. advanced LTE project ultra mobile broadband UMB project also referred to as 3GPP2 etc. . IEEE 802.16 compatible BWA networks are generally referred to as WiMAX networks an acronym that stands for Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access which is a certification mark for products that pass conformity and interoperability tests for the IEEE 802.16 standards. In other embodiments communication schemes described herein may be compatible with additional alternative communication standards specifications and or protocols. For example embodiments of the present disclosure may be applied to other types of wireless networks where similar advantages may be obtained. Such networks may include but are not limited to wireless local area networks WLANs wireless personal area networks WPANs and or wireless wide area networks WWANs such as cellular networks and the like.

The following embodiments may be used in a variety of applications including transmitters and receivers of a mobile wireless radio system. Radio systems specifically included within the scope of the embodiments include but are not limited to network interface cards NICs network adaptors base stations access points APs relay nodes enhanced node Bs gateways bridges hubs and satellite radiotelephones. Further the radio systems within the scope of embodiments may include satellite systems personal communication systems PCS two way radio systems global positioning systems GPS two way pagers personal computers PCs and related peripherals personal digital assistants PDAs personal computing accessories and all existing and future arising systems which may be related in nature and to which the principles of the embodiments could be suitably applied.

User Equipment UE may access the core network via a radio link link with a base station BS such as for example one of base stations etc. in the RAN . The UE may for example be a subscriber station that is configured to communicate with the base stations in conformance with one or more protocols. The following description is provided for an example BWA network that conforms with 3GPP for ease of discussion however subject matter of the present disclosure is not limited in this regard and the described embodiments may apply to other wireless communication networks that benefit from the principles described herein. In some embodiments the base stations may include enhanced Node B eNB stations and a UE that is configured to communicate using a multiple input and multiple output MIMO communication scheme. One or more antennas of the UE may be used to concurrently utilize radio resources of multiple respective component carriers e.g. which may correspond with antennas of eNB stations of the BWA network . The UE may be configured to communicate using Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA in e.g. downlink communications and or Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access SC FDMA in e.g. uplink communications in some embodiments.

While generally depicts the UE as a cellular phone in various embodiments the UE may be a personal computer PC a notebook ultrabook netbook smartphone an ultra mobile PC UMPC a handheld mobile device an universal integrated circuit card UICC a personal digital assistant PDA a Customer Premise Equipment CPE a tablet or other consumer electronics such as MP3 players digital cameras and the like. The base stations may include one or more antennas one or more radio modules to modulate and or demodulate signals transmitted or received on an air interface and one or more digital modules to process signals transmitted and received on the air interface.

In some embodiments communication with the UE via RAN may be facilitated via one or more nodes . The one or more nodes may serve as an interface between the core network and the RAN . According to various embodiments the one or more nodes may include a Mobile Management Entity MME e.g. SGSN MME of that is configured to manage signaling exchanges e.g. authentication of the UE between the base stations and the core network e.g. one or more servers a Packet Data Network Gateway PGW e.g. GGSN PGW of to provide a gateway router to the Internet and or a Serving Gateway SGW to manage user data tunnels or paths between the base stations of the RAN and the PGW. Other types of nodes may be used in other embodiments.

The core network may include logic e.g. a module to provide authentication of the UE or other actions associated with establishment of a communication link to provide a connected state of the UE with the BWA network . For example the core network may include one or more servers that may be communicatively coupled to the base stations . In an embodiment the one or more servers may include a Home Subscriber Server HSS e.g. HLR HSS of which may be used to manage user parameters such as a user s International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI authentication information and the like. The core network may include other servers interfaces and modules some of which are further described in connection with . The one or more servers may include over the air OTA servers in some embodiments. In some embodiments logic associated with different functionalities of the one or more servers may be combined to reduce a number of servers including for example being combined in a single machine or module.

According to various embodiments the BWA network is an Internet Protocol IP based network. For example the core network may be an IP based network. Interfaces between network nodes e.g. the one or more nodes may be based on IP including a backhaul connection to the base stations . In some embodiments the BWA network includes a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM General Packet Radio Service GPRS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA Evolved HSPA E HSPA or Long Term Evolution LTE network. In some embodiments the RAN may include GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN where EDGE stands for Enhanced Data for GSM Evolution Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN or Evolved UTRAN E UTRAN . The BWA network may operate in accordance other network technologies in other embodiments.

According to various embodiments the small data payload may be sent by the UE to a Services Capability Server SCS or Application server via RAN and core network or the small data payload may be sent by the Application server or SCS to the UE via the core network and the RAN . For example an Application server may be configured e.g. by an MTC user to send or trigger sending of a small data payload to user equipment UE . The Application server may be communicatively coupled with the core network using for example an Internet connection e.g. Internet of . In another example an MTC application that is communicatively or operatively coupled with the UE may be configured to send or trigger the sending of a small data payload from the UE to the SCS and or Application server . In some embodiments the UE is an MTC device configured to send or receive small data payloads and or otherwise communicate with the MTC application . In some embodiments the UE may include the MTC application .

The system architecture includes an SCS which is configured to connect to the core network to communicate with UEs e.g. UE that are configured for small data e.g. MTC communication. The SCS may be further configured to communicate with an Interworking Function IWF such as MTC IWF to trigger a transmission of a small data payload. In some embodiments the SCS may be an MTC server.

The MTC IWF may terminate a Tsp reference point or interface hereinafter reference point between the SCS and the MTC IWF . The MTC IWF may be configured to hide internal public land mobile network PLMN topology and relay or translate signaling protocols used over the Tsp reference point to invoke specific functionality in the PLMN. In some embodiments the MTC IWF may authenticate the SCS before communication is established with the core network and or control plane requests from the SCS are authorized. According to various embodiments the dashed lines between modules e.g. represent a control plane and the solid lines between modules represent a user plane. While a particular plane may be shown between modules other embodiments may include additional or alternative planes.

In one embodiment the MTC IWF may terminate a T Treference point between a module including a Mobility Management Entity MME and or a Serving GPRS General Packet Radio Service Support Node SGSN such as for example SGSN MME . In some embodiments the Treference point may terminate on the SGSN of the SGSN MME and the Treference point may terminate on the MME of the SGSN MME . In another embodiment the MTC IWF may terminate an Sreference point between a module including a Home Location Register HLR and or Home Subscriber Server HSS such as for example HLR HSS .

According to various embodiments the T Treference point may be used to send control packet information to a network e.g. a 3GPP PLMN based on an indication from the SCS . The Sreference point may be used to derive routing information for a downlink small data payload by obtaining a network identifier e.g. 3GPP internal device identifier such as IMSI or Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN from an MTC device identifier or MTC application identifier.

The system architecture may further include Gr S Sreference points between the HLR HSS and the SGSN MME reference point Ti between the SCS and the GGSN PGW reference point Application Programming Interface API between the Application server and the SCS reference point between the SGSN MME and the RAN and reference points Um Uu LTE UU between the RAN and the UE . The reference points are not limited to the example names provided and may be referred to by other names in other embodiments. The system architecture may include other reference points in other embodiments.

The system architecture may support transmission of small data payloads with little network impact such as signaling overhead network resources or delay for reallocation. In some embodiments the UE may be attached e.g. by an established Radio Resource Control RRC connection or detached from the RAN before transmission of the small data payload e.g. when the small data payload transmission is triggered . The UE may be in connected mode or idle mode when the small data payload transmission is triggered in some embodiments. According to various embodiments the system architecture may be configured to send the small data payload over the T Tor Sreference points.

Referring to at the SCS may send a message to the MTC IWF to trigger transmission of a small data payload. The SCS may include an MTC device identification ID and or an MTC application e.g. MTC application ID in the message to indicate a target UE e.g. UE to receive the small data payload. The SCS may further include in the message or otherwise send the small data payload to the MTC IWF in some embodiments. In other embodiments an Application server may directly send the small data payload to the MTC IWF . In some embodiments a secure connection may be established between the MTC IWF and the SCS for transmissions at .

At in response to receiving the trigger at the MTC IWF may Query the HLR HSS to obtain routing information to deliver the small data payload to the UE over the T Treference point. In some embodiments the MTC IWF may send the MTC device ID to the HLR HSS which may have the MTC Device ID as part of an MTC subscription. The HLR HSS may map the MTC Device ID to an IMSI of the UE and send the IMSI along with an address for the SGSN MME back to the MTC IWF . A trust relation may be established between the MTC IWF and the HLR HSS in some embodiments e.g. when the MTC IWF is outside of a domain of an operator of the core network . In response to receiving the query at from the MTC IWF the HLR HSS may send to the MTC IWF IMSI serving node identities and or other information such as operator policy authorization information failure indication with cause value and the like.

At the MTC IWF may send the small data payload and a request e.g. Forward Small Data request to forward the small data payload to the SGSN MME over the T Treference point. The MTC IWF may use the IMSI to send the request and the small data payload to the SGSN MME .

In accordance with the first technique T of sending the small data payload from the SGSN MME to the UE the SGSN MME may determine that the UE is in a connected state and at forward the small data payload to the UE using uplink downlink UL DL Non Access Stratum NAS signaling. For example the SGSN MME may determine that the UE is in a connected state by determining that a context e.g. locally stored already exists to indicate a location for the UE . The SGSN MME may send the small data payload to the UE using for example a downlink Non Access Stratum NAS transport message. An acknowledgement that the small data payload has been sent to the UE may be received by the SGSN MME during communications at

At the SGSN MME may forward to the MTC IWF the acknowledgement that the small data payload has been sent to the UE . At the MTC IWF may send a trigger to the SCS to send an acknowledgement that the small data payload has been delivered to the UE . The SCS may for example send the acknowledgement to the Application server in response to the trigger.

In accordance with the second technique T of sending the small data payload from the SGSN MME to the UE the SGSN MME may determine that the UE is in an idle state and at may send the small data payload to the RAN e.g. base station or of in a paging message. The RAN may send at the paging message including the small data payload to the UE . For example the small data payload may be included in a paging message that is broadcasted in a tracking area of a target UE that is in idle mode. The SGSN MME may be configured to send the paging message including the small data payload over a control plane in some embodiments. In some embodiments the RAN may inform the SGSN MME that the small data payload was successfully delivered by sending at a small data acknowledgement to the SGSN MME which may be forwarded to the MTC IWF at .

In accordance with the third technique T of sending the small data payload from the SGSN MME to the UE the SGSN MME may determine that the UE is in an idle state and at may send a paging message including the small data payload to the RAN e.g. base station or of . The paging message may further include an optional small data indicator to indicate that the small data payload is at the RAN e.g. at base station or of . In some embodiments the SGSN MME may send the small data payload over the S reference point to RAN .

In some embodiments the RAN may retrieve and or store the small data payload from the paging message and send at a paging message to the UE without the small data payload. The RAN may include the small data indicator with the paging message. In some embodiments where the small data payload is at the RAN prior to the UE being attached to the RAN e.g. by RRC connection the UE may receive the paging message sent at with the small data indicator indicating that the small data payload is at the RAN .

At the UE may begin an attachment process to the RAN by e.g. establishment of an RRC connection. For example the establishment of the RRC connection may be requested by the UE in an RRC connection request message to the RAN in response to the paging message at . The RAN may deliver the small data payload to the UE via signals associated with the RRC connection setup procedure. When the UE receives the small data payload the UE may terminate the RRC connection setup procedure and may return to an idle mode if no other data is to be sent or received by the UE . In some embodiments the RAN may inform the SGSN MME that the small data payload was successfully delivered by sending at a small data acknowledgement to the SGSN MME .

In accordance with the fourth technique T of sending the small data payload from the SGSN MME to the UE the SGSN MME may determine that the UE is in an idle state and at may send a paging message that may include a small data indicator that indicates a presence of the small data payload at the SGSN MME that needs to be delivered or forwarded to the UE . At the RAN may send the paging message which may include the small data indicator to the UE to indicate that the small data payload targeted for the UE is at the SGSN MME . In some embodiments where the small data payload is at the SGSN MME prior to the UE being attached to the RAN e.g. by RRC connection the UE may receive the paging message sent at with the small data indicator indicating that the small data payload is at the SGSN MME . In response to the paging message at the UE at may begin an attachment process to the RAN by e.g. establishment of an RRC connection and at begin an attachment process with the SGSN MME by sending a Non Access Stratum NAS message such as an attach service request message to the RAN . In some embodiments the NAS message may be a routing area update request message or a tracking area update request message. In some embodiments the NAS message may be an UL or DL NAS transport message or generic NAS transport message. The RAN may forward the NAS message to the SGSN MME . During the attachment process at the SGSN MME may send the small data payload to the UE using Non Access Stratum NAS signaling e.g. attach response service request response DL NAS transport message etc.

The content of the NAS message sent by the UE to begin the attachment process at may depend on the content of the paging message received by the UE at . For example in a case where the paging message at contains only the small data indicator indicating that the small data payload is at the SGSN MME the UE may include an information element including a Key Set Identifier KSI which may be associated with cipher and integrity keys and a sequence number which may be a counter value for the UE in the NAS message. The MME of the SGSN MME may use the KSI the sequence number and a Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity TMSI value such as an S TMSI where the S refers to System Architecture Evolution SAE to encrypt the small data payload for delivery to the UE . When the UE receives the small data payload the UE may terminate the attachment process and may be configured to return to an idle mode if no other data is to be sent or received by the UE .

In some embodiments where the paging message sent at includes the small data payload e.g. at of the UE may or may not be required by network operator policy to send a response message to the small data payload from the SCS . In a case where network operator policy does not require sending of any response the UE may be configured to include an information element including an acknowledgement such as an MTC data acknowledgement in the NAS message that is sent to begin the attachment process at . In a case where network operator policy requires sending of a response the UE may include an information element including the KSI and sequence number and an encrypted response payload as a NAS Packet Data Unit PDU in a NAS container in the NAS message that is sent to begin the attachment process at . If the UE has multiple response messages or more data to fit in the NAS container at the UE may indicate in the NAS container that more data is to follow. After the attach service request message has been sent by the UE to begin the attachment process at the UE may include the additional data in a NAS PDU in an uplink information transfer message to the SGSN MME . In some embodiments if the UE has an uplink small data payload to send to the SCS the UE may activate Packet Data Protocol PDP Context and or PDP bearers and send uplink data on a user plane e.g. via GGSN PGW of .

In embodiments where the NAS message e.g. of attachment process at sent by the UE to the SGSN MME includes only the KSI and the sequence number e.g. a case where the paging message at contains only the small data indicator indicating that the small data payload is at the SGSN MME the SGSN MME may send the small data payload in an encrypted information element in a NAS message such as for example an encrypted information element in a NAS PDU in an S downlink NAS transport message to the UE . The UE may send a response message or an acknowledgement in response to the NAS message with the small data payload. The acknowledgement may include for example an acknowledgement in an encrypted information element in a NAS PDU in an uplink information transfer message. The UE may further include in the response message or acknowledgement an information element in the uplink information transfer message to request the release of the RRC connection at if the UE does not have further data to send.

In some embodiments if the NAS message e.g. attach service request message that is sent to begin the attachment process at includes the information element including an acknowledgement such as an MTC data acknowledgement e.g. a case where network operator policy does not require sending of a response to reception by the UE of the small data payload the SGSN MME may send or forward the data acknowledgement to the MTC IWF at . If the NAS message e.g. attach service request message that is sent to begin the attachment process at includes an information element including the KSI and sequence number and an encrypted response payload as a NAS Packet Data Unit PDU in a NAS container e.g. a case where network operator policy requires sending of a response to indicate reception by the UE of the small data payload the SGSN MME may decrypt the NAS PDU and forward at the response payload to the MTC IWF . The SGSN MME may also send an acknowledgement in an encrypted information element in a NAS PDU in an S downlink NAS transport message to the UE .

In some embodiments the S downlink NAS transport message may include an information element that allows the MME of the SGSN MME to request the base station of the RAN to release the RRC connection at . The MME may not use this indication if the UE previously indicated that multiple response messages are to be transferred.

Referring to at the SCS may send a message to the MTC IWF to trigger transmission of a small data payload. The action at may comport with embodiments described in connection with of . At the MTC IWF may send the small data payload and a request e.g. Forward Small Data request to forward the small data payload to the HLR HSS over the Sreference point. The MTC IWF may use MTC device identification ID and or an MTC application ID ID of MTC Application in the message to indicate a target UE e.g. UE to the HLR HSS . A trust relation may be established between the MTC IWF and the HLR HSS in some embodiments e.g. when the MTC IWF is outside of a domain of an operator of the core network .

The HLR HSS may have the MTC device ID as part of an MTC subscription. The HLR HSS may be configured to map the MTC device ID to an IMSI of the UE and derive the target SGSN MME . At the HLR HSS may send the small data payload to the SGSN MME e.g. over the reference points Gr S Sof . The small data payload may be sent for example in a notify request message.

At the SGSN MME may send the small data payload to the UE . At the SGSN MME may send or forward a response or acknowledgement as described in connection with to the HLR HSS . At the HLR HSS may forward the response or acknowledgement to the MTC IWF over the Sreference point.

At the MTC IWF may send a trigger to the SCS to send an acknowledgement that the small data payload has been delivered to the UE . The SCS may for example send the acknowledgement to the Application server . According to various embodiments techniques described in connection with and may be combined. For example the small data payload may be sent over the T Treference point and the acknowledgement may be received over the Sreference point or vice versa.

The SCS may receive a trigger to send a small data payload as described in connection with scheme of . At in response to receiving the trigger the SCS may send the small data payload at to PGW e.g. PGW of the GGSN PGW of . At the PGW may send the small data payload to a serving gateway SGW over an established default bearer.

At the SGW may send a downlink data notification message to the MME and or at the SGW may send a downlink notification message to the SGSN . At the MME may respond with a downlink data notification acknowledgement message and or at the SGSN may respond with a downlink data notification acknowledgement message.

At the MME may send a paging message to the base station if the UE is registered in the MME. At the SGSN may send a paging message to a Radio Network Controller Base Station Controller RNC BSC if the UE is registered in the SGSN . At the base station may send a paging message to the UE and or at the RNC BSC may send a paging message to the UE . The paging messages may indicate to the UE that a downlink small data payload is to be sent to the UE .

At in response to the paging message s the UE may perform an attachment process to establish an RRC connection with the base station and or RNC BSC e.g. RAN of . At the UE may perform an attachment process e.g. a service request procedure to establish a connection with the MME SGSN and or SGW . The SGW may transmit the small data payload to the UE via Radio Access Technology RAT which may be the RAT used to perform the attachment process at . According to various embodiments the RRC connection at may comport with embodiments described in connection with action of and the attachment process at may comport with embodiments described in connection with action of

Referring to the UE may be triggered by the MTC application to send a small data payload to the SCS . At in response to the trigger the UE may send a connection request message to RAN . The UE may include a NAS module and an Access Stratum AS module. In some embodiments the NAS module may be configured to request the AS module to establish for example an RRC connection including a TMSI e.g. S TMSI of the UE in the connection request message resulting in the action at . The UE may include a value that indicates to a base station of RAN that a short lived signaling procedure is in progress. For example the UE may set a cause value in the connection request message to mo Signaling. Such action may reduce a likelihood that the MME of SGSN MME will download a security context to the base station. Without the security context handover may not be performed. Radio resources can be saved if the base station does not configure the UE to perform measurement reporting.

At the base station of the RAN may send an RRC connection setup message to indicate establishment of the RRC connection. At in response to receiving the RRC connection setup message the UE may send the small data payload to the base station as part of an RRC setup complete message. The RRC setup complete message may include for example a KSI and sequence number and the small data payload in encrypted form. The small data payload may be sent as a NAS PDU in a NAS container in some embodiments.

At the base station may forward the encrypted small data payload e.g. in the NAS container to the MME of the SGSN MME in an S Application Protocol S AP initial context message. The MME may be configured to decrypt the small data payload and add identity information of the UE to a message that includes the small data payload to the MTC IWF .

The SGSN MME may be configured to forward the small data payload to the MTC IWF over the T Tor Sreference points. In one embodiment at the SGSN MME may forward the small data payload to the HLR HSS e.g. over Gr S Sreference points of and at the HLR HSS may forward the small data payload to the MTC IWF over the Sreference. In another embodiment at the SGSN MME may be configured to forward the small data payload to the MTC IWF directly over the T Treference point.

At the MTC IWF may forward the small data payload to the SCS e.g. over the Tsp reference point . The SCS may further forward the small data payload to an Application server .

At the SGSN MME may send an acknowledgement that the small data payload has been received by the SGSN MME or forwarded to the MTC IWF . The acknowledgement may be in a message that includes an MTC data acknowledgement information element in an encrypted NAS PDU to the base station in an S downlink NAS transport message. In some embodiments the message may further include an information element that allows the MME of the SGSN MME to request the base station of the RAN to release the RRC connection.

At the base station of the RAN may send the acknowledgement message to the UE and release the RRC connection in an RRC connection release message. The base station may include an MTC data acknowledgement information element as a NAS PDU within the RRC connection release message.

In some embodiments the UE may perform NAS signaling instead of actions at such as for example a tracking area update service request attach request and the like and include the uplink small data payload to the SGSN MME using NAS signaling. In some embodiments the UE may perform RRC signaling to include the uplink small data payload to the RAN which may forward the small data payload to the SGSN MME using S . S may be shared and not on a per UE basis.

According to various embodiments a small data payload may be transmitted to the wireless communication network e.g. the SGSN MME from the UE and or transmitted to the UE from the wireless communication network hereinafter network using various message types and configurations. For example the UE may be configured to transmit a small data payload using NAS signaling messages on an uplink e.g. originated by the UE according to a variety of techniques. The NAS module of the UE may include circuitry that is configured to receive a trigger to send a small data payload to the network and generate a NAS message including the small data payload. The AS module of the UE may include circuitry coupled with the NAS circuitry and configured to transmit the NAS message including the small data payload to the network. The trigger may be received for example from the MTC application or from the network according to various embodiments.

In one embodiment a small data payload may be sent by the UE to the network on the uplink by including the small data payload in a small data container information element IE in a NAS message such as for example an attach request message a routing area update request message or a tracking area update request message. The small data container IE may be an optional IE that is included with the NAS if a communication type IE e.g. attach type IE of additional update type IE of or update type IE of in the NAS message is configured to indicate that the UE is communicating e.g. connecting attaching requesting service with the network to transmit the small data payload.

In some embodiments the small data container IE may be included in the attach request message based on a determination that the attach type IE is configured to indicate that the UE is communicating with the network to transmit the small data payload. The attach type IE may include for example one or more bits for an attach type value that is configured to indicate whether the UE is communicating for a small data transmission. In some embodiments the attach type IE may include three bits of a first octet octet to indicate an evolved packet system EPS attach type value a bit of the first octet to indicate a spare feature coded as and four bits to indicate an EPS attach type IEI as can be seen in .

Table 1 depicts various example EPS attach type values. In some embodiments the EPS attach type value indicates EPS small data attach to indicate that the UE is communicating to transmit the small data payload if a first bit Bit of the three bits has a value of 0 a second bit Bit of the three bits has a value of 0 and a third bit Bit has a value of 0. Other values of the three bits may indicate EPS attach combined IMSI attach EPS emergency attach and reserved communication as indicated in Table 1. Other possible values for the three bits may be unused and may be interpreted as EPS attach if received by the network. An attach procedure initiation for EPS small data attach may be similar or the same as for EPS attach in some embodiments.

The additional update type IE may include for example one or more bits for an additional update type AUT value that is configured to indicate whether the UE is communicating for a small data transmission. In some embodiments the additional update type IE may include two bits of a first octet octet to indicate an AUT value two bits of the first octet to indicate spare features coded as and four bits to indicate an additional update type IEI as can be seen in .

Table 2 depicts various example AUT values. In some embodiments the AUT value provides small data indication to indicate that the UE is communicating to transmit the small data payload if a first bit Bit of the two bits has a value of 0 and a second bit Bit of the two bits has a value of 1. Other values of the two bits may indicate no additional information short message service SMS only indication or reserved communication as indicated in Table 2. If the AUT value indicates no additional information Bit and equal to 0 the attach request message may be interpreted as a combined attach or combined tracking area update.

The additional update type information element may provide information about a type of request for a combined attach or a combined tracking area update procedure. The combined attach procedure may be used by the UE in operation modes such as for example circuit switched packet switched CS PS modes or to respectively attach for both EPS and non EPS services or both EPS services and SMS only. The attach type IE may indicate that the UE is requesting a combined EPS IMSI attach and informs the network that the UE is capable and configured to use circuit switched CS fallback and or SMS over service gateways SGs . If the UE requests SMS service but not CS fallback the UE may include an SMS only indication in the additional update type IE . If the UE requests only small data service the UE may include a small data indication in the additional update type IE .

Table 3 depicts example content of an attach request message. The attach request message may include values for fields IEI information element type reference presence format and length as can be seen. The presence field includes values to indicate whether presence of the information element is mandatory M or optional O . The format field includes values to indicate Value only V Type only T Type and Value TV Length and Value LV Type Length and Value TLV Length and Value for Evolved Packet System EPS Mobility Management EMM and or EPS Sessions Management ESM LV E TLV for EMM and or ESM TLV E . The length field includes values to indicate a size or length in octets of the information element. The attach request message may include a small data container IE EPS attach type IE and or additional update type IE as described herein. The attach request message may include other formats or values in other embodiments.

In some embodiments the small data container IE may be included in the routing area update request message based on a determination that the update type IE is configured to indicate that the UE is communicating with the network to transmit the small data payload. The update type IE may include for example one or more bits for an update type value that is configured to indicate whether the UE is communicating for a small data transmission. In some embodiments the update type IE may include three bits of a first octet octet to indicate an update type value a bit of the first octet to indicate a follow on request FOR feature and four bits to indicate an update type IEI as can be seen in . In some embodiments the bit associated with the FOR may have a value of 0 to indicate that no follow on request is pending and a value of 1 to indicate that a follow on request is pending.

Table 4 depicts various example update type values. In some embodiments the update type value may indicate periodic updating with small data if a first bit Bit of the three bits has a value of 0 a second bit Bit of the three bits has a value of 0 and a third bit Bit of the three bits has a value of 1. The update type value may indicate routing area RA updating with small data if the first bit has a value of 1 the second bit has a value of 0 and the third bit has a value of 1. Other values of the three bits may indicate RA updating combined RA Location Area LA updating combined RA LA updating with IMSI attach and periodic updating as indicated in Table 4. Other possible values for the three bits may be reserved.

Table 5 depicts example content of a routing area update request message. The routing area update request message may include values for fields IEI information element type reference presence format and length as can be seen. The routing area update request message may include an update type IE and or small data container IE as described herein. The routing area update request message may include other formats or values in other embodiments.

In some embodiments the small data container IE may be included in the tracking area update request message based on a determination that the update type IE is configured to indicate that the UE is communicating with the network to transmit the small data payload. The update type IE may include for example one or more bits for an update type value e.g. EPS update type value that is configured to indicate whether the UE is communicating for a small data transmission. In some embodiments the update type IE may include three bits of a first octet octet to indicate the update type value a bit of the first octet to indicate an Active flag feature and four bits to indicate an update type IEI e.g. EPS update type IEI as can be seen in . In some embodiments the bit associated with the Active flag feature may have a value of 0 to indicate that no bearer establishment is requested and a value of 1 to indicate that bearer establishment is requested.

Table 6 depicts various example update type values. In some embodiments the update type value may indicate tracking area updating with small data if a first bit Bit of the three bits has a value of 0 a second bit Bit of the three bits has a value of 0 and a third bit Bit of the three bits has a value of 1. The update type value may indicate periodic updating with small data if the first bit has a value of 1 the second bit has a value of 0 and the third bit has a value of 1. Other values of the three bits may indicate TA updating combined TA LA updating combined TA LA updating with IMSI attach and periodic updating as indicated in Table 6. Other possible values for the three bits may be used in other embodiments.

In some embodiments the tracking area update request message may include an additional update type IE and may further include the small data payload in a small data container IE if the additional update type IE is set to a value indicating small data e.g. as described in connection with the additional update type IE of .

Table 7 depicts example content of a tracking area update request message. The tracking area update request message may include values for fields IEI information element type reference presence format and length as can be seen. The tracking area update request message may include an update type IE e.g. EPS update type additional update type IE and or small data container IE as described herein. The tracking area update request message may include other formats or values in other embodiments.

The routing area update accept message may include a small data container IE including a small data payload to be sent to the UE if an update result value of the update result IE is configured to indicate that the UE is communicating for a small data transmission. The update result IE may include for example one or more bits for an update result value that is configured to indicate that the routing area RA is updated with small data. In some embodiments the update result IE may include three bits of a first octet octet to indicate the update result value a bit of the first octet to indicate a follow on proceed FOP feature and four bits to indicate an update result IEI as can be seen in . In some embodiments the bit associated with the FOP feature may have a value of 0 to indicate that follow on proceed is pending and a value of 1 to indicate that no follow on proceed is pending. Other possible values for the three bits may be reserved.

Table 8 depicts various example update result values e.g. EPS update result values . In some embodiments the update result value may indicate routing area updated with small data if a first bit Bit of the three bits has a value of 0 a second bit Bit of the three bits has a value of 1 and a third bit Bit of the three bits has a value of 1. Other values of the three bits may indicate RA updated combined RA LA updated RA updated and Idle state Signaling Reduction ISR activated and combined RA LA updated and ISR activated as indicated in Table 8. Other possible values for the three bits may be used in other embodiments.

Table 9 depicts example content of a routing area update accept message. The routing area update accept message may include values for fields IEI information element type reference presence format and length as can be seen. The routing area update accept message may include an update result IE and or small data container IE as described herein. The routing area update accept message may include other formats or values in other embodiments.

The tracking area update accept message may include a small data container IE including a small data payload to be sent to the UE if an update result value e.g. EPS update result value of the update result IE is configured to indicate that the UE is communicating for a small data transmission. The update result IE may include for example one or more bits for an update result value that is configured to indicate that the tracking area TA is updated with small data. In some embodiments the update result IE may include three bits of a first octet octet to indicate the update result value a bit of the first octet to indicate a spare feature coded as and four bits to indicate an update result IEI e.g. EPS udpate result IEI as can be seen in . Other possible values for the three bits may be reserved.

Table 10 depicts various example update result values e.g. EPS update result values . In some embodiments the update result value may indicate tracking area updated with small data if a first bit Bit of the three bits has a value of 0 a second bit Bit of the three bits has a value of 1 and a third bit Bit of the three bits has a value of 1. Other values of the three bits may indicate TA updated combined TA LA updated TA updated and ISR activated and combined TA LA updated and ISR activated as indicated in Table 10. Other possible values for the three bits may be used in other embodiments.

Table 11 depicts example content of a tracking area update accept message. The tracking area update accept message may include values for fields IEI information element type reference presence format and length as can be seen. The tracking area update accept message may include an update result IE and or small data container IE as described herein. The tracking area update accept message may include other formats or values in other embodiments.

The network and or UE may use other techniques and configurations to send a small data payload. In one embodiment the network e.g. MME may send a paging message e.g. of on downlink to RAN e.g. a base station such as eNB station which may forward the paging message to the UE . The paging message may include a small data indicator IE and or a small data container IE according to various embodiments.

Table 12 depicts example content of a paging message from the network to the RAN in accordance with various embodiments. The paging message may include values for fields IE Group Name presence range IE type and reference semantics description criticality and assigned criticality as can be seen. The paging message may include small data container IE and or a small data indicator which may be optional elements included in the paging message in some embodiments. The paging message may include a list of tracking area identities TAIs and or Closed Subscriber Group CSG Id list. The term maxnoofTAIs in the range field may refer to a maximum number of TAIs and may have a value of 256 in some embodiments. The term maxnoofCSGIds in the range field may refer to a maximum number of CSG Ids within the CSG Id List and may have a value of 256 in some embodiments. The criticality field may include values such as for example YES EACH or GLOBAL. The assigned criticality field may include values such as for example ignore . The paging message may include other formats or values in other embodiments.

Table 13 depicts an example small data indicator IE. The small data indicator IE may indicate that the network has a small data payload to transmit to the UE . The small data indicator IE may include values for fields IE Group Name presence range IE type and reference and semantics description as can be seen. In some embodiments the IE type and reference field of the small data indicator may be ENUMERATED true . . . to indicate a data type.

In some embodiments the paging message sent by the network e.g. SGSN MME to the RAN may include a small data indicator IE and no small data payload e.g. no small data container IE . The RAN may send the small data indicator to the UE in a paging message. Table 14 depicts an example paging message format for a paging message sent to the UE from the RAN for a case where the paging message includes the small data indicator and does not include the small data container e.g. using techniques described in connection with . The paging message format is in Abstract Syntax Notation One ASN. 1 .

The UE may communicate with the eNB to establish a connection in response to receiving the paging message including the small data indicator IE. In some embodiments the UE may send an RRC connection request message to the RAN in response to the paging message. The RAN may send an RRC connection setup message to the UE in response to receiving the RRC connection request message. The UE may send an RRC connection setup complete message and a service request message e.g. extended service request message to the network e.g. forwarded to the MME of the SGSN MME by the RAN . The service request message may include a service type IE e.g. service type IE having a service type value to indicate a small data service request. The network may send the small data payload to the UE in a NAS message in response to the service request message.

Table 15 depicts various example service type values. In some embodiments the service type value may indicate a small data service request with no small data container if a first bit Bit of the four bits has a value of 0 a second bit Bit of the four bits has a value of 0 a third bit Bit of the four bits has a value of 1 and a fourth bit Bit of the four bits has a value of 1. The service type value may indicate a small data service request with a small data container if a first bit Bit of the four bits has a value of 1 a second bit Bit of the four bits has a value of 0 a third bit Bit of the four bits has a value of 1 and a fourth bit Bit of the four bits has a value of 1 Other values of the four bits may indicate other service type values as indicated in Table 10. Other possible values for the four bits may be used to indicate the small data service request in other embodiments.

Table 16 depicts example content of an extended service request message. The extended service request message may include values for fields IEI information element type reference presence format and length as can be seen. A value of C in the presence filed may indicate that the information element is conditionally optional. The extended service request message may include a service type IE and or small data container IE as described herein. In some embodiments the extended service request message may be sent by the UE to the network to initiate a CS fallback or 1xCS fallback call response to a mobile terminated CS fallback or 1xCS fallback request from the network or request the establishment of a NAS signaling connection of the radio and S bearers for packet services if the UE needs to provide additional information that cannot be provided via a service request message. The extended service request message may include other formats or values in other embodiments.

The network e.g. the MME of the SGSN MME may send a NAS message to the UE including a small data payload in response to receiving the extended service request message from the UE which may or may not include a small data payload from the UE to the network as described. In some embodiments the NAS message sent by the network to UE is a downlink NAS transport message including the small data payload in a NAS message container IE. The NAS message container IE e.g. NAS message container IE of may include a small data container IE in some embodiments.

The NAS message container IE may include one or more bits to indicate features of the NAS message container IE . For example in some embodiments the NAS message container IE may include a first octet octet of eight bits for a NAS message container IEI to identify the NAS message container IE a second octet octet to indicate a size or length of the NAS message container contents and a third octet octet to an nth octet octet n for NAS message container contents e.g. to carry the small data payload . The NAS message container IE may be configured with other allocations of bits to indicate features of the NAS message container IE in other embodiments.

Table 17 depicts example content of a NAS transport message. The NAS transport message may include values for fields IEI information element type reference presence format and length as can be seen. The NAS transport message may include a NAS message container IE as described herein. The NAS transport message may include other formats or values in other embodiments. For example the NAS transport message may include a small data container IE of in the NAS message container IE. In some embodiments the NAS transport message may include a small data container IE instead of or in addition to the NAS message container IE. The NAS transport message in Table 17 may represent a downlink NAS transport message. In some embodiments an uplink NAS transport message may be used to carry a small data payload from the UE to the network. In such embodiments the Downlink NAS transport message identity IE in Table 17 may be replaced with an Uplink NAS transport message identity IE.

Table 18 depicts example content of a Generic NAS Transport message. The Generic NAS Transport message may include values for fields IEI information element type reference presence format and length as can be seen. The Generic NAS transport message may include other formats or values in other embodiments. For example the NAS transport message may include a small data container IE of in the Generic message container IE or the Additional information IE. In some embodiments the NAS transport message may include a small data container IE instead of or in addition to the Generic message container IE and or additional information IE. The Generic NAS transport message in Table 18 may represent a downlink Generic NAS transport message. In some embodiments an Uplink Generic NAS transport message may be used to carry a small data payload from the UE to the network. In such embodiments the Downlink Generic NAS transport message identity IE in Table 18 may be replaced with an Uplink NAS transport message identity IE.

According to various embodiments the network e.g. MME of the SGSN MME may send a small data payload to the UE by sending a paging message that includes a small data indicator and the small data payload e.g. using techniques described in connection with . The paging message may include a small data container e.g. as depicted in Table 12 that includes the small data payload. Table 19 depicts an example paging message format for a paging message sent to the UE from the RAN for a case where the paging message includes the small data indicator and the small data container carrying the small data payload.

According to various embodiments the network e.g. MME of the SGSN MME may send a small data payload to the UE by sending a paging message that includes a small data indicator and the small data payload to the RAN e.g. using techniques described in connection with . The paging message may include a small data container e.g. as depicted in Table 12 that includes the small data payload. The RAN may store retrieve the small data payload and send a paging message to the UE that includes a small data indicator and does not include the small data payload. The UE may send an RRC connection request to the RAN in response to the paging message. In response to the RRC connection request the RAN may send an RRC connection setup message to the UE that includes the small data payload. Table 20 depicts an example RRC connection setup message format for an RRC connection setup message including the small data payload that may be sent from the RAN to the UE .

At the method includes receiving by a UE a trigger to send a small data payload to a wireless communication network e.g. BWA network of hereinafter network. The trigger can be received from an MTC application communicatively coupled with the UE or from the network. The trigger can include an express request to transmit a small data payload receipt by the UE of a notification of a small data transmission from the network e.g. small data indicator or any other suitable trigger.

At the method may further include generating by the UE a NAS message including the small data payload. According to various embodiments the NAS message may include for example an attach request message a routing area update request message or a tracking area update request message. The NAS message may include a communication type information element that may be configured to indicate whether the UE is communicating with the network for a small data purpose e.g. to transmit the small data payload .

At the method may further include transmitting by the UE the NAS message including the small data payload to the network. The NAS message may be transmitted to a network node e.g. SGSN MME via RAN .

At the method may further include receiving by the UE a NAS message from the network sent in response to the NAS message transmitted by the UE . The NAS message received by the UE may be sent for example by the SGSN MME over the RAN . In embodiments where the NAS message transmitted by the UE at includes a routing or tracking area update request message the NAS message received by the UE at may be a respective routing or tracking area update accept message that includes another small data payload from the network to the UE.

At the method includes receiving by a network node a request to send a small data payload to a UE over a RAN . The request may be received for example by the MTC IWF the SCS an MTC application e.g. via the UE or the Application server but is not limited in this regard and can be received by any suitable technique.

At the method may further include sending by the network node a paging message including a small data indicator that indicates transmission of a small data payload to the UE . The paging message may be sent to the UE via RAN . In some embodiments the paging message includes the small data payload e.g. in a small data container IE of . For example the RAN may receive the small data payload and may either send a paging message including the small data payload to the UE or send the paging message with the small data indicator and subsequently establish a connection e.g. RRC connection with the UE and send the small data payload to the UE in an RRC connection message. In other embodiments the paging message sent at does not include the small data payload.

At the method may further include receiving a service request message from the UE that is sent based on the small data indicator. The service request message may be received from the UE in embodiments where the paging message sent at does not include the small data payload e.g. small data payload is at the SGSN MME . For example the RAN may send a paging message to the UE that includes the small data indicator. The UE and the RAN may establish an RRC connection in response to the paging message and the UE may send a service request message indicating small data service. In some embodiments the service request message may include a service type IE that is configured to indicate whether the UE has a small data payload to send to the network. In some embodiments the service request message may include another small data payload e.g. uplink from the UE to the network.

At the method may further include sending by the network node a NAS message including the small data payload in response to the service request message. The NAS message may be a NAS transport message that includes a NAS message container carrying the small data payload.

At the method includes receiving by a base station from a network a paging message including a small data indicator that indicates transmission of a small data payload to the UE . In some embodiments the paging message received includes a small data payload. In other embodiments the paging message received does not include a small data payload.

At the method may further include sending by the base station to the UE a paging message including the small data indicator. In embodiments where the paging message received at includes the small data payload the paging message sent by the base station at may include the small data payload. In other embodiments where the paging message received at includes the small data payload or does not include the small data payload the paging message sent at may not include the small data payload.

At the method may further include establishing by the base station an RRC connection with the UE . For example the UE may send an RRC connection request message in response to the paging message. The base station may receive the RRC connection request message and send an RRC connection setup message in response to the RRC connection request message. In embodiments where the paging message received at by the base station from the network includes the small data payload and the paging message sent at by the base station to the UE does not include the small data payload the base station may include the small data payload in the RRC connection setup message to the UE .

At the method may further include sending by the base station to the network a service request message from the UE . The service request message may be sent by the UE in response to the paging message e.g. small data indicator sent by the base station at . For example in embodiments where the paging message received by the base station at does not include the payload from the network the base station may receive from the UE an RRC connection setup complete message and an extended service request that indicates small data service in response to the RRC connection setup message to the UE . The extended service request may be sent to the network e.g. SGSN MME by the base station.

At the method may further include sending by the base station to the UE a NAS message including the small data payload from the network. For example the network may send the NAS message to the UE via the base station in response to the extended service request.

The methods described in connection with may comport with embodiments described in connection with and vice versa. Various operations are described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the claimed subject matter. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. In particular these operations may not be performed in the order of presentation. Operations described may be performed in a different order than the described embodiment. Various additional operations may be performed and or described operations may be omitted in additional embodiments.

Embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented into a system using any suitable hardware and or software to configure as desired. schematically illustrates an example system that may be used to practice various embodiments described herein. illustrates for one embodiment an example system having one or more processor s system control module coupled to at least one of the processor s system memory coupled to system control module non volatile memory NVM storage coupled to system control module and one or more communications interface s coupled to system control module .

In some embodiments the system may be capable of functioning as the UE as described herein. In some embodiments a system control module of the UE may include a NAS module and an AS module as described herein. In other embodiments the system may be capable of functioning as the one or more servers of or otherwise provide logic module that performs functions as described for a base station one or more nodes SCS MTC IWF HLR HSS SGSN MME RAN PGW and other modules described herein. In some embodiments the system may include one or more computer readable media e.g. system memory or NVM storage having instructions and one or more processors e.g. processor s coupled with the one or more computer readable media and configured to execute the instructions to implement a module to perform actions described herein.

System control module for one embodiment may include any suitable interface controllers to provide for any suitable interface to at least one of the processor s and or to any suitable device or component in communication with system control module .

System control module may include memory controller module to provide an interface to system memory . The memory controller module may be a hardware module a software module and or a firmware module.

System memory may be used to load and store data and or instructions for example for system . System memory for one embodiment may include any suitable volatile memory such as suitable DRAM for example. In some embodiments the system memory may include double data rate type four synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR4 SDRAM .

System control module for one embodiment may include one or more input output I O controller s to provide an interface to NVM storage and communications interface s .

The NVM storage may be used to store data and or instructions for example. NVM storage may include any suitable non volatile memory such as flash memory for example and or may include any suitable non volatile storage device s such as one or more hard disk drive s HDD s one or more compact disc CD drive s and or one or more digital versatile disc DVD drive s for example.

The NVM storage may include a storage resource physically part of a device on which the system is installed or it may be accessible by but not necessarily a part of the device. For example the NVM storage may be accessed over a network via the communications interface s .

Communications interface s may provide an interface for system to communicate over one or more network s and or with any other suitable device. The system may wirelessly communicate with the one or more components of the wireless network in accordance with any of one or more wireless network standards and or protocols.

For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be packaged together with logic for one or more controller s of system control module e.g. memory controller module . For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be packaged together with logic for one or more controllers of system control module to form a System in Package SiP . For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be integrated on the same die with logic for one or more controller s of system control module . For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be integrated on the same die with logic for one or more controller s of system control module to form a System on Chip SoC .

In various embodiments the system may be but is not limited to a server a workstation a desktop computing device or a mobile computing device e.g. a laptop computing device a handheld computing device a tablet a netbook etc. . In various embodiments the system may have more or less components and or different architectures. For example in some embodiments the system includes one or more of a camera a keyboard liquid crystal display LCD screen including touch screen displays non volatile memory port multiple antennas graphics chip application specific integrated circuit ASIC and speakers.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein for purposes of description a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments described herein be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

