---

title: Intermittent/discontinuous sample introduction to an inductively coupled plasma torch
abstract: A sample introduction system providing intermittent or discontinuous supply of liquid to a nebulizer is described. In one or more implementations, the sample introduction system includes a nebulizer configured to receive a fluid sample and a nebulizer gas and aerosolize the fluid sample with the nebulizer gas. The sample introduction system also includes a sample pump configured to supply a first aliquot of a sample to the nebulizer during a first time interval, stop supplying the first aliquot of the sample at the end of the first time interval, supply at least substantially no sample to the nebulizer during a second time interval subsequent to the first time interval, and supply a second aliquot of a sample to the nebulizer during a third time interval subsequent to the second time interval.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09177772&OS=09177772&RS=09177772
owner: Elemental Scientific, Inc.
number: 09177772
owner_city: Omaha
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121022
---
The present application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 550 861 filed Oct. 24 2011 and titled VARIABLE ONLINE DILUTION U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 602 675 filed Feb. 24 2012 and titled VARIABLE ONLINE DILUTION and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 619 031 filed Apr. 2 2012 and titled INTERMITTENT DISCONTINUOUS SAMPLE INTRODUCTION TO AN ICP TORCH. U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 61 550 861 61 602 675 and 61 619 031 are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Inductively Coupled Plasma ICP spectrometry is an analysis technique commonly used for the determination of trace element concentrations and isotope ratios in liquid samples. ICP spectrometry employs electromagnetically generated partially ionized argon plasma which reaches a temperature of approximately 7 000K. When a sample is introduced to the plasma the high temperature causes sample atoms to become ionized or emit light. Since each chemical element produces a characteristic mass or emission spectrum measuring the spectra of the emitted mass or light allows the determination of the elemental composition of the original sample.

Sample introduction systems may be employed to introduce the liquid samples into the ICP spectrometry instrumentation e.g. an Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometer ICP ICP MS an Inductively Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission Spectrometer ICP AES or the like for analysis. For example a sample introduction system may withdraw an aliquot of a liquid sample from a container and thereafter transport the aliquot to a nebulizer that converts the aliquot into a polydisperse aerosol suitable for ionization in plasma by the ICP spectrometry instrumentation. The aerosol is then sorted in a spray chamber to remove the larger aerosol particles. Upon leaving the spray chamber the aerosol is introduced into the plasma by a plasma torch assembly of the ICP MS or ICP AES instruments for analysis.

A sample introduction system providing intermittent or discontinuous supply of liquid to a nebulizer is described. In one or more implementations the sample introduction system includes a nebulizer configured to receive a fluid sample and a nebulizer gas and aerosolize the fluid sample with the nebulizer gas. The sample introduction system also includes a sample pump configured to supply a first aliquot of a sample to the nebulizer during a first time interval stop supplying the first aliquot of the sample at the end of the first time interval supply at least substantially no sample to the nebulizer during a second time interval subsequent to the first time interval and supply a second aliquot of a sample to the nebulizer during a third time interval subsequent to the second time interval.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Peristaltic pumps and or rotary piston pumps can be used to dilute an internal standard spike and or a sample for analysis with spectrometry equipment. However it may be difficult for a peristaltic pump to function when backpressure is generated at the peristaltic pump. Further as successive dilutions of an internal standard are supplied e.g. to create a calibration curve in the case of an internal sample it becomes necessary to change tubing between each dilution adding to the time complexity and expense associated with calibrating equipment. For example a test sample can be divided into several test portions. Known quantities of an internal standard are then added to spike one or more of the test portions prior to analysis. Another of the test portions is analyzed without the internal standard unspiked . This technique can be used to determine the content of an analyte in a test sample while accounting for the analytical procedure compensating for matrix effects and so forth. In this type of test configuration it is generally desirable that the amount of standard analyte added to a test sample is similar to the amount of analyte already present in the test sample e.g. in some instances the amount of standard analyte added to a test sample ranges from about one to five time 1 5 the amount of analyte present in the sample . However if the concentration of analyte in the test sample is not known prior to analysis it may be necessary to spike a number of test portions with increasing quantities of analyte to create a calibration curve necessitating a change in tubing between each successive dilution.

Typically with spectrometry equipment fluid is continuously introduced to a nebulizer which is used to aerosolize the fluid e.g. using a nebulizer gas . For example a sample fluid and a carrier fluid may be continuously pumped to a nebulizer a sample fluid may be intermittently pumped to a nebulizer while a carrier fluid is continuously pumped to a nebulizer a rinse solution may be pumped to a nebulizer when the sample fluid and the carrier fluid are not being pumped to the nebulizer and so forth. Continuously pumping fluid to a nebulizer in this manner can lead to increased liquid waste greater rinse solution consumption and or an increased likelihood of flooding a spray chamber connected to a nebulizer e.g. when an instrument is not being used to analyze samples . Further this configuration can make it difficult to change over between solvent systems due to the effects of residual fluid in the nebulizer and or spray chamber from continuous pumping. Additionally in some instances sequential samples introduced one immediately after another may chemically react in the aerosol phase e.g. via acid base interaction organic solvent water interaction polymerizing chemical interaction and so forth . This interaction can lead to noise precipitation and or unwanted chemical reactions.

Accordingly systems are described that are configured to introduce liquid to a nebulizer only when a sample is introduced. The systems include a sample pump where the sample pump is configured to supply aliquots of a sample to a nebulizer during two separate time intervals where the two time intervals are separated by another time interval during which at least substantially no liquid is provided to the nebulizer. Thus the sample pump is stopped between each sample aliquot i.e. such that air e.g. air bubbles and other gasses or liquids fluids are not introduced through a sample capillary when the sample is not being introduced. However nebulizer gas may be continuously supplied to the nebulizer including during time intervals when sample fluid is not being supplied to the nebulizer. This may allow a spray chamber connected to a nebulizer to dry between successive samples when for instance a long enough waiting time is provided between samples. In implementations a sample pump can also be used to provide a pre rinse and or post rinse of the spray chamber between successive samples. Systems configured in accordance with the present disclosure can provide higher quality data than typical sample introduction systems for liquid samples. For example such systems can allow for better and or more stable calibrations at very low sample concentrations such as for single digit parts per trillion ppt concentrations.

Systems configured in accordance with the present disclosure may also include one or more dilution pumps to provide variable online dilution. The systems can be configured to supply an internal standard or a sample using a sample pump while dilution pumps are controlled to selectively adjust amounts of a carrier and or a diluent supplied with the internal standard or the sample. Thus a calibration curve can be created using a single internal standard by varying the ratio of diluent to internal standard using the dilution pumps. Further the internal standard can be pumped at a constant flow rate for each successive dilution. In implementations the one or more dilution pumps can also be stopped during time intervals when the sample pump is not pumping sample to a nebulizer.

In implementations where the internal standard or the sample and the carrier are supplied to Inductively Coupled Plasma ICP or ICP Mass Spectrometry ICP MS equipment high dilution flows and carrier flows can be mixed to achieve a steady signal output from the equipment. In example implementations an internal standard and a sample can be mixed before the addition of a diluent. Mixing the internal standard and the sample can mitigate or prevent a Venturi effect that may otherwise be present when a high diluent flow suctions some of a sample e.g. at a valve or tee creating a fluctuating sample flow that causes a temporary high signal followed by a low signal as the sample flow is recharged at a low flow rate. In one example when a sample flow rate of two and one half microliters per minute 2.5 L min is used to mix a sample with a diluent at a diluent flow rate of four hundred ninety seven and one half microliters per minute 497.5 L min a first dilution factor DF for the mixture will be two hundred 200 e.g. 497.5 2.5 2.5 . When the resulting mixture is mixed at a flow rate of five hundred microliters per minute 500 L min with an internal standard at an internal standard flow rate of one hundred fifty microliters per minute 150 L min a second dilution factor DF for the mixture will be one and three tenths 1.3 e.g. 150 500 500 . However when the sample is first mixed with the internal standard the first dilution factor DF will be sixty one 61 e.g. 150 2.5 2.5 while the second dilution factor DF will be about four and twenty six one hundredths 4.26 e.g. 497.5 152.5 152.5 . Further the internal standard or the sample may be supplied using a separate pump from the carrier or the diluent so that it is not necessary to clean the pumps connected to the internal standard the sample the carrier and or the diluent between each dilution.

The techniques described herein may be implemented in a system that includes a sample pump and one or more dilution pumps to provide variable online dilution. In one or more implementations the techniques may be implemented as one or more software modules stored in the memory of a device included with the system and executed by the processing system of the device. As described herein the processing system may execute the module s to selectively adjust amounts of a carrier and or a diluent supplied with an internal standard or a sample. The techniques described herein thus furnish the user of the system with variable online dilution. For example the system may provide autodilution of a sample and or an internal standard linear auto calibration accurate sample dilution and so forth. Thus variable amounts of an internal standard can be mixed with a sample using for example a single prepared spike solution. The spike can be diluted automatically using a diluent solution in line or on line e.g. as required by a specified dilution factor . This can result in a savings in labor provide reliable and precise dilution allow for a micro standard additions system e.g. where a required amount of sample is only microliters provide on line additions and variable dilution at the same time and so forth. Allowing for variable dilution and standard addition at the same time may be particularly useful with a viscous solution e.g. in the case of sulfuric acid HSO .

In the following discussion an example system environment is first described. Exemplary procedures are then described that may be employed with the example environment as well as with other environments and devices without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

Additionally the online dilution apparatus may comprise more than two pumps such as three pumps four pumps and so forth. For example the online dilution apparatus may comprise the internal standard syringe pump the first carrier syringe pump and other carrier pumps such as a three tenths milliliter 0.3 mL second carrier syringe pump and or a six milliliter 6 mL third carrier syringe pump for supplying the carrier . The online dilution apparatus may also include a diluent pump e.g. a three milliliter 3 mL diluent syringe pump for supplying a diluent .

In implementations the online dilution apparatus can be configured to supply liquid e.g. sample carrier diluent rinse solution and so forth to a nebulizer coupled with a cyclonic spray chamber only when sample is supplied to the nebulizer . For example the internal standard syringe pump and or the first carrier syringe pump may supply a first aliquot of sample and or carrier to the nebulizer during a first time interval stop supplying the first aliquot of sample and or carrier at the end of the first time interval supply at least substantially no liquid e.g. no sample and or carrier to the nebulizer during a second time interval subsequent to the first time interval and supply a second aliquot of sample and or carrier to the nebulizer during a third time interval subsequent to the second time interval. In this manner the online dilution apparatus can be configured to stop the pumping system between each sample to prevent liquid or sample gas from entering the nebulizer for a period of time between samples and possibly for an extended period of time after ICP or ICP MS analysis for example is completed. Further the second time interval can be selected such that the cyclonic spray chamber is cleared of nebulized aerosol between samples which can prevent unwanted chemical reactions in the aerosol phase which may otherwise cause deleterious effects. For example nebulizer gas can be supplied at least substantially continuously to the nebulizer during the first time interval the second time interval and the third time interval.

While the present disclosure describes providing liquid to a nebulizer only when sample is provided to the nebulizer it should be noted that sample within the context of the present disclosure may refer to sample fluid for analysis e.g. by spectrometry equipment carrier and or diluent to be combined with sample and or rinse solution. Thus a carrier may be used with a liquid sample during a first time interval and the supply of carrier and sample may be stopped subsequent to the first time interval such that substantially no liquid is supplied to the nebulizer during a second time interval subsequent to the first time interval. Then a rinse solution may be supplied to the nebulizer during a third time interval subsequent to the second time interval.

Referring now to the internal standard syringe pump the first carrier syringe pump the second carrier syringe pump the diluent syringe pump and or other pumps e.g. the third carrier syringe pump may be coupled with a first rotary valve and included in a single hardware module e.g. provided with a unitary housing . For example output lines of the internal standard syringe pump and the diluent syringe pump may be directly connected to the first rotary valve while output lines of the first carrier syringe pump the second carrier syringe pump and possibly the diluent syringe pump may be connected together and the resulting output may be connected to the first rotary valve . However hardware module is provided by way of example only and is not meant to be restrictive of the present disclosure. Thus it will be appreciated that other hardware modules having different configurations may be provided in accordance with the present disclosure.

The internal standard syringe pump is configured to pump the internal standard in a specified time interval and the first carrier syringe pump and or the diluent syringe pump are configured to pump volumes of the carrier and or the diluent in the specified time interval. In some implementations the second carrier syringe pump can be configured to pump another volume of the carrier in the specified time interval. Similarly the third syringe pump can be configured to pump a further volume of the carrier in the specified time interval. In this manner various dilutions of the internal standard and or a sample can be furnished online by controlling amounts of the carrier and or the diluent that are supplied by the first carrier syringe pump the second carrier syringe pump the third carrier syringe pump the diluent syringe pump and or further syringe pumps while pumping the internal standard and or a sample during a specified time interval.

The syringes of the different syringe pumps can be moved at different rates to create the desired dilutions. For example the syringe of the first carrier syringe pump and or the syringe of the second carrier syringe pump can be moved to generate flow rates ranging from between about one half milliliter per minute to one hundred milliliters per minute mL min 100 mL min . However this range is provided by way of example only and is not meant to be restrictive of the present disclosure. Thus flow rates of less than one half milliliter per minute mL min and or more than one hundred milliliters per minute 100 mL min can also be used in accordance with the present disclosure. Further the syringes can be actuated alone one at a time i.e. in a sequence of two or more and or at the same time i.e. in groups of two or more . Additionally the syringes may be actuated at the same rate or at different rates to achieve various dilutions of the internal standard. In implementations dilutions can be created that range from but are not necessarily limited to one to fifty 1 50 one to one hundred 1 100 and one to two hundred 1 200 .

In an implementation a sample flow rate of two hundred and fifty microliters per minute 250 L min is used to mix a sample with a diluent or a mixture of a spike and a spike diluent supplied at a flow rate of one hundred fifty microliters per minute 150 L min . The spike can be supplied using for example a three hundred microliter 300 L syringe while the spike diluent can be supplied using for example a three thousand microliter 3 000 L syringe. In a first instance spike diluent is supplied at a flow rate of one hundred fifty microliters per minute 150 L min . In a second instance the spike diluent is supplied at a flow rate of one hundred and forty microliters per minute 140 L min and the spike is supplied at a flow rate of ten microliters per minute 10 L min . In a third instance the spike diluent is supplied at a flow rate of one hundred thirty microliters per minute 130 L min and the spike is supplied at a flow rate of twenty microliters per minute 20 L min . In a fourth instance the spike diluent is supplied at a flow rate of one hundred microliters per minute 100 L min and the spike is supplied at a flow rate of fifty microliters per minute 50 L min . The total flow rate in each instance is four hundred microliters per minute 400 L min and the dilution factors are about one 1 one and seventy one thousandths 1.071 one and one hundred fifty four thousandths 1.154 and one and a half 1.5 respectively.

In another implementation a sample flow rate of fifteen microliters per minute 15 L min is used to mix a sample with a diluent or a mixture of a spike and a spike diluent supplied at a flow rate of two hundred and eighty five microliters per minute 285 L min . In a first instance spike diluent is supplied at a flow rate of two hundred and eighty five microliters per minute 285 L min . In a second instance the spike diluent is supplied at a flow rate of two hundred and eighty two microliters per minute 282 L min and the spike is supplied at a flow rate of three microliters per minute 3 L min . In a third instance the spike diluent is supplied at a flow rate of two hundred and seventy nine microliters per minute 279 L min and the spike is supplied at a flow rate of six microliters per minute 6 L min . In a fourth instance the spike diluent is supplied at a flow rate of two hundred and seventy microliters per minute 270 L min and the spike is supplied at a flow rate of fifteen microliters per minute 15 L min . In a fifth instance the spike diluent is supplied at a flow rate of two hundred fifty five microliters per minute 255 L min and the spike is supplied at a flow rate of thirty microliters per minute 30 L min . The total flow rate in each instance is three hundred microliters per minute 300 L min and the dilution factors are about one 1 one and eleven thousandths 1.011 one and twenty two thousandths 1.022 one and fifty six thousandths 1.056 and one and one hundred eighteen thousandths 1.118 respectively.

In some instances the flow rates of the sample and or the internal standard can be varied during an analysis period to achieve faster analysis using spectroscopy equipment. For example a sample can be mixed with a diluent at a dilution factor of 200 and optionally with an internal standard e.g. using a valve having an internal volume of five microliters 5 L a sample flow rate of two and a half microliters per minute 2.5 L min and a diluent flow rate of four hundred ninety seven and a half microliters per minute 497.5 L min . In this configuration spectroscopy instrumentation can take up to about two minutes 2 min to stabilize. However by increasing the flow rate of the mixture from five hundred microliters per minute 500 L min to two thousand microliters per minute 2 000 L min the signal can take about thirty seconds to stabilize. In implementations this can be accomplished by varying the flow rates of both the sample and the diluent rather than the flow rate of the sample alone which may result in for example high salt reaching the instrument an unstable mixture and so forth .

The online dilution apparatus may include a sampler assembly such as an autosampler for automatically collecting a sample from a number of samples contained in test tubes and so forth. The online dilution apparatus may also include a nebulizer coupled with a cyclonic spray chamber for supplying an Inductively Coupled Plasma ICP torch with sample gas samples from the autosampler the internal standard the carrier and or the diluent . A second rotary valve may be coupled with the autosampler the nebulizer and the first rotary valve of the hardware module . The second rotary valve may receive samples from the autosampler the internal standard the carrier and or the diluent and supply them to the nebulizer . The second rotary valve may also be coupled with a sample loop for holding priming fluid and so forth. A peristaltic pump may be used to evacuate waste from the nebulizer . For example the peristaltic pump may be connected to a drain chamber of the nebulizer .

In the computing device is illustrated as including a processor and a memory . The processor provides processing functionality for the computing device and may include any number of processors micro controllers or other processing systems and resident or external memory for storing data and other information accessed or generated by the computing device . The processor may execute one or more software programs that implement the techniques and modules described herein. The processor is not limited by the materials from which it is formed or the processing mechanisms employed therein and as such may be implemented via semiconductor s and or transistors e.g. electronic integrated circuits ICs and so forth.

The memory is an example of device readable storage media that provides storage functionality to store various data associated with the operation of the computing device such as the software program and code segments mentioned above or other data to instruct the processor and other elements of the computing device to perform the techniques described herein. Although a single memory is shown a wide variety of types and combinations of memory may be employed. The memory may be integral with the processor stand alone memory or a combination of both. The memory may include for example removable and non removable memory elements such as RAM ROM Flash e.g. SD Card mini SD card micro SD Card magnetic optical USB memory devices and so forth. In embodiments of the computing device the memory may include removable ICC Integrated Circuit Card memory such as provided by SIM Subscriber Identity Module cards USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module cards UICC Universal Integrated Circuit Cards and so on.

The computing device includes a display to display information to a user of the computing device . In embodiments the display may comprise a CRT Cathode Ray Tube display an LED Light Emitting Diode display an OLED Organic LED display an LCD Liquid Crystal Diode display a TFT Thin Film Transistor LCD display an LEP Light Emitting Polymer or PLED Polymer Light Emitting Diode display and so forth configured to display text and or graphical information such as a graphical user interface. The display may be backlit via a backlight such that it may be viewed in the dark or other low light environments.

The display may be provided with a touch screen to receive input e.g. data commands etc. from a user. For example a user may operate the computing device by touching the touch screen and or by performing gestures on the touch screen . In some embodiments the touch screen may be a capacitive touch screen a resistive touch screen an infrared touch screen combinations thereof and the like. The computing device may further include one or more input output I O devices e.g. a keypad buttons a wireless input device a thumbwheel input device a trackstick input device and so on . The I O devices may include one or more audio I O devices such as a microphone speakers and so on.

The computing device may also include a communication module representative of communication functionality to permit computing device to send receive data between different devices e.g. components peripherals and or over one or more networks . Communication module may be representative of a variety of communication components and functionality including but not necessarily limited to a browser a transmitter and or receiver data ports software interfaces and drivers networking interfaces data processing components and so forth.

The one or more networks are representative of a variety of different communication pathways and network connections which may be employed individually or in combinations to communicate among the components of the variable online dilution environment . Thus the one or more networks may be representative of communication pathways achieved using a single network or multiple networks. Further the one or more networks are representative of a variety of different types of networks and connections that are contemplated including but not necessarily limited to the Internet an intranet a Personal Area Network PAN a Local Area Network LAN e.g. Ethernet a Wide Area Network WAN a satellite network a cellular network a mobile data network wired and or wireless connections and so forth.

Examples of wireless networks include but are not necessarily limited to networks configured for communications according to one or more standard of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE such as 802.11 or 802.16 Wi Max standards Wi Fi standards promulgated by the Wi Fi Alliance Bluetooth standards promulgated by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group and so on. Wired communications are also contemplated such as through Universal Serial Bus USB Ethernet serial connections and so forth.

The computing device is illustrated as including a user interface which is storable in memory and executable by the processor . The user interface is representative of functionality to control the display of information and data to the user of the computing device via the display . In some implementations the display may not be integrated into the computing device and may instead be connected externally using universal serial bus USB Ethernet serial connections and so forth. The user interface may provide functionality to allow the user to interact with one or more applications of the computing device by providing inputs via the touch screen and or the I O devices . For example the user interface may cause an application programming interface API to be generated to expose functionality to an online dilution control module to configure the application for display by the display or in combination with another display. In embodiments the API may further expose functionality to configure the online dilution control module to allow the user to interact with an application by providing inputs via the touch screen and or the I O devices .

Online dilution control module may comprise software which is storable in memory and executable by the processor to perform a specific operation or group of operations to furnish functionality to the computing device . The online dilution control module provides functionality to control the dilution of the internal standard and or the samples from the autosampler . For example the online dilution control module may control amounts of the carrier and or the diluent that are supplied by the first carrier syringe pump the second carrier syringe pump the third carrier syringe pump the diluent syringe pump and or further syringe pumps while pumping the internal standard and or a sample during a specified time interval.

In implementations the user interface may include a browser e.g. for implementing functionality of the online dilution control module . The browser enables the computing device to display and interact with content such as a webpage within the World Wide Web a webpage provided by a web server in a private network and so forth. The browser may be configured in a variety of ways. For example the browser may be configured as an online dilution control module accessed by the user interface . The browser may be a web browser suitable for use by a full resource device with substantial memory and processor resources e.g. a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA etc. .

Generally any of the functions described herein can be implemented using software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or a combination of these implementations. The terms module and functionality as used herein generally represent software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. The communication between modules in the variable online dilution environment of for example can be wired wireless or some combination thereof. In the case of a software implementation for instance a module may represent executable instructions that perform specified tasks when executed on a processor such as the processor . The program code can be stored in one or more device readable storage media an example of which is the memory associated with the computing device of .

The following discussion describes procedures that may be implemented in online dilution apparatus providing variable online dilution functionality. Aspects of the procedures may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or a combination thereof. The procedures are shown as a set of blocks that specify operations performed by one or more devices and are not necessarily limited to the orders shown for performing the operations by the respective blocks. In portions of the following discussion reference may be made to the variable online dilution environment of . The features of techniques described below are platform independent meaning that the techniques may be implemented on a variety of commercial platforms having a variety of processors.

Next the pumping rates of the internal standard or the sample and the carrier may be controlled to furnish the internal standard or the sample and the calculated volume of carrier in the specified time interval Block . For example with continuing reference to the processor may execute the control programming to control the pumping rates of the autosampler the internal standard syringe pump the first carrier syringe pump the second carrier syringe pump the third carrier syringe pump and or the diluent syringe pump to furnish the specified dilution for the internal standard .

When the internal standard is pumped at a constant flow rate for example the processor may be configured to selectively adjust volumes of carrier pumped by the first carrier syringe pump the second carrier syringe pump and or the third carrier syringe pump in a specified time interval to furnish the specified dilution for the internal standard with respect to the carrier . In a specific instance the control programming may include a threshold selected to control a switchover between the syringe pumps. For instance when a flow rate of ten milliliters per min 10 mL min or less is desired the processor may use the three tenths milliliter 0.3 mL second carrier syringe pump to supply the carrier . Further when a flow rate of more than ten milliliters per minute 10 mL min is desired the processor may use the three milliliter 3 mL first carrier syringe pump to supply the carrier .

Next the pumping rates of the internal standard or the sample and the carrier can be controlled to furnish the calculated volume of carrier in the specified time interval Block . In some instances one pumping rate can be used for the carrier while priming a fluid line Block and another different pumping rate can be used for the carrier while performing sample analysis Block . For example with continuing reference to the control programming can be configured to adjust the flow rates of samples from the autosampler the internal standard the carrier and or the diluent to provide on the fly flow rate control. For example a high flow rate can be provided while priming the fluid lines while a slower flow rate can be provided when sample analysis starts e.g. with the ICP torch . Thus the syringe pumps can be used to prime the fluid lines in a priming sequence designed to maximize the sample analysis rate while preventing overflow. This may be used with for example a closed loop system with a constant evacuation rate.

In one specific implementation the syringes are filled one at a time removing the air contained in each syringe. Then the priming fluid is quickly loaded into the sample loop . Next the second rotary valve is switched and a vacuum is used to send the priming fluid to waste. Then while the analysis is performed e.g. using the ICP torch material can be supplied using the syringe pumps at a slower rate designed to prevent generating more waste then the drain chamber of the nebulizer can accommodate. In a specific instance this may reduce the amount of time required to prime the fluid lines and conduct a sample analysis from about ten minutes 10 min to for example about one and one half minutes 1 min .

The internal standard syringe pump the first carrier syringe pump the second carrier syringe pump the third carrier syringe pump and or the diluent syringe pump may each be refilled between samples. For example the various syringe pumps may be refilled during rinse washout of the cyclonic spray chamber .

In some implementations the control programming may be used to identify each particular dilution from a single vial of a sample supplied from the autosampler as one of multiple different sample vials when interfacing with for example data analysis software. Thus multiple virtual vial locations may be generated using a single physical vial location.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or process operations it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

