---

title: Passenger seat assembly
abstract: Described are passenger seat assemblies having at least one seat back support and at least one seat pan coupled to the at least one seat back support. The passenger seat assemblies may also include at least one pair of armrests coupled to the at least one seat back support, a seat support structure having at least one seat pan mounting surface and a framework, wherein the at least one seat pan is coupled to the at least one seat pan mounting surface, and/or at least one headrest pivotally coupled to the at least one seat back support with at least one pair of extensions coupled to the at least one headrest or the at least one seat back support.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08857911&OS=08857911&RS=08857911
owner: Zodiac Seats US LLC
number: 08857911
owner_city: Gainesville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120611
---
This application is related to and claims priority benefits from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 520 538 filed on Jun. 10 2011 entitled AIRPLANE SEAT CONCEPT the 538 application and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 501 885 filed on Jun. 28 2011 entitled RECLINING HEADREST the 885 application . The 538 and 885 applications are hereby incorporated herein in their entireties by this reference.

In various modes of transportation a passenger may be subjected to a passenger seat for various lengths of time. In airline travel for example it is not uncommon for a passenger to be seated in a passenger seat for multiple hours. During such time a passenger s overall comfort may suffer due to a lack of proper head and neck support arm support and or foot support.

For example traditional passenger seats may not provide sufficient adjustment to provide each passenger with an amount of head or neck support or comfort level that he or she requires or desires. As a result passengers typically bring personal items such as pillows and blankets on board to achieve such support. These items may be quite cumbersome however and typically intrude into the personal space of another passenger. In many cases armrests are also shared by passengers seated in adjoining seats. This shared use may prove awkward or uncomfortable for many passengers who may simply concede an armrest to the exclusive use of the other passenger consequently foregoing arm support. Furthermore the area below the next forward passenger seat may be utilized for stowage of personal items as well as a location for a passenger s feet.

Thus it may be desirable to provide passenger seats with easily adjustable structures to support each passenger s head and or neck while eliminating the need for personal items to achieve a similar result armrests that provide for dual usage without the need to compete for usage and or a seat support structure that provides sufficient stowage capacity while also providing some support for a passenger s feet.

Furthermore traditional passenger seats typically provide tray tables stowed in a seat back of a next forward passenger seat which may be jarred or disturbed when the seat back is reclined. In certain seats the tray table location may be positioned within an armrest. However in certain cases the additional weight and space required to stow the tray tables within the armrest may be undesirable. Thus it may be desirable to provide passenger seats with removable tray tables that are not positioned on the next forward passenger seat while also not increasing the weight and or consuming valuable space within the passenger seat.

Embodiments of the present invention include a passenger seat assembly comprising at least one seat back support and at least one seat pan coupled to the at least one seat back support. The at least one seat back support may further comprise a lumbar support.

In certain embodiments the passenger seat assembly may further comprise at least one pair of armrests coupled to the at least one seat back support. In some embodiments at least one armrest of the at least one pair of armrests may be configured to releasably couple to a tray table. Each armrest may comprise an upper portion further comprising at least two overlapping sections arranged so that a forward portion of a top section does not overlap an aft portion of a bottom section as well as a lower portion spaced apart from the upper portion by a spacer wherein the lower portion may be configured to stow in flight entertainment devices.

In some embodiments the passenger seat assembly may further comprise a seat support structure comprising at least one seat pan mounting surface and a framework wherein the at least one seat pan is coupled to the at least one seat pan mounting surface. The framework may be divided into multiple stowage compartments. The seat support structure may further comprise at least one footrest which may comprise a surface inclined at approximately a 7 degree angle.

In certain embodiments the passenger seat assembly may further comprise at least one headrest pivotally coupled to the at least one seat back support and at least one pair of extensions coupled to the at least one headrest or the at least one seat back support wherein the at least one pair of extensions are adapted to be positioned adjacent a passenger s head when the at least one headrest is in a reclined position. The at least one pair of extensions may be pivotally coupled to the at least one headrest. The at least one headrest may be slidingly coupled to the at least one seat back support via a support bar. The at least one headrest may be coupled to at least one support panel pivotally coupled to the at least one seat back support.

In some embodiments the passenger seat assembly may further comprise an in flight entertainment display which may be slidingly coupled to an aft surface of the at least one seat back support.

The described embodiments of the invention provide passenger seat assemblies. While the passenger seat assemblies are discussed for use with aircraft seats they are by no means so limited. Rather embodiments of the passenger seat assemblies may be used in passenger seats or other seats of any type or otherwise as desired.

The seat back support may provide a foundation form and shape for the passenger seat assembly and may provide support for a passenger s body. The seat back support may have any suitable seat like shape including but not limited to linear curvilinear or other suitable shapes.

In certain embodiments the seat pan may be pivotally coupled to the seat back support wherein the amount of angle between the seat back support and the seat pan may be adjustable to a particular angle by a passenger. Any suitable recline mechanism may be used to adjust the position of the seat back support including but not limited to a recline lock or other suitable mechanism that releasably locks the seat back support at any suitable position between and including fully upright and fully reclined positions.

In some embodiments a cushion may be coupled to the seat back support the seat pan and or the headrest . The internal composition of the cushion may include any suitable material that provides a comfortable resting location for a passenger while providing a durable material that will withstand repeated usage. The type of internal cushion material includes but is not limited to viscoelastic materials foam materials honeycomb shaped materials cushioning materials or other similar materials. The covering of the cushion may be formed of any suitable material including but not limited to textiles woven or nonwoven fabrics leather synthetic materials plastics or other similar materials.

In certain embodiments as illustrated in the seat back support may further comprise a lumbar support . The lumbar support may be configured to provide approximately 0.6 inches of rigid support. However one of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that the lumbar support may be configured to provide any suitable amount of rigid support as needed. In these embodiments the lumbar support may be covered with the cushion . The cushion adjacent the lumbar support may be configured to have a thickness of up to 1.3 inches or more of internal cushion material.

In certain embodiments as shown in the headrest may be coupled to the seat back support . In these embodiments as illustrated in the seat back support may comprise a projection that is configured to fit within a corresponding receptacle on the headrest . The projection and or receptacle may have any suitable shape including but not limited to semi circular parabola oval rectilinear triangular rhombus or other suitable shape. In these embodiments the sides of the receptacle may be formed by a pair of extensions . The projection may be configured to have a surface that is substantially parallel to the upper surface of the seat back support as shown in may be configured to taper aft as shown in may have a concave surface configured to contour to the sides of a passenger s head may have a convex surface configured to support a passenger s head or any other suitable shape as needed to provide the desired amount of support for a passenger s head.

An upper edge of the projection may be pivotally coupled to an upper edge of the receptacle as shown in . As a result when the headrest pivots in an aft direction an upper portion of the headrest rotates aft while the pair of extensions rotate forward so as to be positioned adjacent a passenger s head so as to provide additional support for the passenger s head and or neck.

The headrest may also be coupled to at least one support bar that extend from the seat back support . In certain embodiments the support bar may extend from an aft location adjacent the projection through the projection or any other suitable location that allows the headrest to pivot relative to the seat back support . A sliding coupling mechanism between the headrest and the support bar and or between the support bar and the seat back support may be utilized so that the height of the headrest may be adjusted as desired.

In some embodiments as shown in the extensions may be pivotally coupled to the headrest so as to provide additional support for the passenger s head and or neck. In some embodiments the extensions may be coupled to the headrest by a variety of mechanisms including but not limited to hinges fasteners rods and other pivotally coupling mechanisms. In some embodiments the extensions may be pivotally coupled to the headrest via a friction hinge which relies on a constant friction force within the hinge to hold a position until an excessive torque is applied to overcome the hinge resistance torque and move each extension to another position within its range of motion. As a result the extensions may only be adjusted by direct intentional force or manipulation by the passenger. In some embodiments the friction force between the extensions and the headrest will likewise prevent unintentional adjustment of the extensions . In other embodiments the extensions may be secured into place after adjustment by a variety of manners including but not limited to a locking mechanism.

In certain embodiments as shown in the seat back support may comprise a recess that is configured to receive the corresponding headrest . The recess and headrest may have any suitable shape including but not limited to semi circular parabola oval rectilinear triangular rhombus or other suitable shape. In these embodiments the sides of the recess may be formed by a pair of extensions .

A lower edge of the headrest may be pivotally coupled to a lower edge of the recess as shown in . As a result when the headrest pivots in an aft direction the pair of extensions remain positioned adjacent a passenger s head so as to provide additional support for the passenger s head and or neck.

The at least one headrest may also be coupled to at least one support panel that is pivotally coupled to the at least one seat back support adjacent and aft of the at least one headrest . In some embodiments the support panel may be coupled to the seat back support by a recline lock or other suitable mechanism that releasably locks the headrest at any suitable position between and including fully upright and fully reclined positions.

In certain embodiments as shown in and at least one pair of armrests may be coupled to the at least one seat back support . Each armrest may comprise an upper portion and a lower portion . The upper portion may be coupled to the lower portion via a spacer .

In certain embodiments the upper portion may comprise at least two overlapping sections A B wherein the overlapping sections A B may be spaced apart and coupled to one another via a side . In other embodiments the overlapping sections A B may be coupled to one another directly. In yet other embodiments the upper portion may comprise a single section as shown in FIGS. and . In these embodiments as shown in an aft portion of the top section A may taper toward the side wherein an aft portion of the bottom section B is then no longer covered by the top section A. Additionally the aft portion of the bottom section B may be coupled to the spacer and a forward portion of the bottom section B may be shaped so as not to extend the entire length of the top section A wherein a forward portion of the top section A is then no longer covered by the bottom section B.

As a result the overlapping arrangement of the upper portion may allow two passengers to utilize each armrest simultaneously. For example a passenger seat on a side of the armrest adjacent the side may access the forward portion of the top section A such as for support of the passenger s forearm. A passenger seated on a side of the armrest opposite the side may then access the aft portion of the bottom section B such as for support of the passenger s elbow. The upper portion may further comprise an extension that may be deployed from below the top section A as illustrated in . The extension may be configured to provide additional surface area to support a passenger s forearm that is seated on a side of the armrest opposite the side . By including dual level surfaces the armrest may be more easily shared by two passengers.

By configuring the upper portion so that the forward portion of the top section A is not covered by the bottom section B additional space is available between the upper portion and the lower portion and less material is required to form the upper portion . Further by configuring the spacer to be positioned adjacent the aft portion of the upper portion and the lower portion additional space is available to stow in flight entertainment IFE and or seat recline devices in the lower portion . For example as shown in the position of a seat recline mechanism may be positioned adjacent the lower portion . The lower portion and or upper portion may also include power and or audio receptacles sound controls a control panel with lighting switches flight attendant call buttons in flight entertainment controls recline control or any other suitable control mechanism related to operation of the passenger seat assembly or any of its amenities.

In certain embodiments as illustrated in at least one armrest may include an aperture that is configured to couple with a leg of a removable tray table . The leg may include projections adjacent an end of the leg . The projections may be configured to align with similarly positioned receptacles along the circumference of the aperture . The combination of projections and receptacles may be configured to allow the leg to pass through the aperture and also lock the tray table into position when the tray table is rotated relative to the aperture . However one of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that any suitable releasable coupling mechanism may be used to join the tray table to the armrest .

At least one IFE display may be slidingly coupled to an aft surface of the seat back support . In these embodiments a track may be included on the aft surface which is configured to mechanically mount and electrically couple to the IFE display . As a result a passenger seated in the next aft passenger seat assembly may adjust the IFE display to a suitable viewing height to increase the comfort of that passenger.

In some embodiments as illustrated in the seat pan may be coupled to the seat support structure . The seat support structure may comprise at least one seat pan mounting surface that is coupled to a framework which is in turn mounted to a floor of a vehicle cabin. The seat support structure may be configured to provide support for up to three passenger seat assemblies . However one of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that the seat support structure may be configured to provide support for additional passenger seat assemblies as needed or desired.

The framework may also be configured to provide stowage compartments below the seat pan mounting surface from an aft side while also providing a barrier to prevent luggage from escaping the framework on a forward side . A lower surface may be coupled to the framework and positioned below the stowage compartments . In some embodiments the lower surface may be configured to include approximately a 7 degree incline so that the lower surface may also serve as at least one footrest. However one of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that the lower surface may be configured to provide any suitable amount of incline as needed or desired for passenger comfort.

In certain embodiments at least one IFE control unit may be stowed within the framework . In these embodiments each IFE control unit may be configured to also divide the framework into at least two stowage compartments .

The foregoing is provided for purposes of illustrating explaining and describing embodiments of the present invention. Further modifications and adaptations to these embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art and may be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

