---

title: Data structure and method for performing mishap risk of a system
abstract: A computer-implemented method is provided for performing mishap risk assessment within a system. The method includes providing a first set of data including risk information associated with at least one hazard within the system, correlating all input first set of data with a second set of data defined as a plurality of mishaps of the system such that the hazard correlates with each mishap to assess mishap potential, storing the correlated first and second sets of data, and performing mishap risk assessment within the system based the correlated data including the first and second sets of data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08880452&OS=08880452&RS=08880452
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08880452
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120131
---
The invention described herein was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and the invention herein may be manufactured practiced used and or licensed by or for the Government of United States of America without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to a data structure for mishap risk assessment which considers all possible hazards hazardous causes and mishaps and their effects on systems. For example a data structure which assesses risk of mishaps associated with a military weapon system such as injury to personnel and damage to equipment and the environment.

Existing methods for performing mishap risk assessments associated with the development or use of military weapon systems for example is typically centered around a single worse case scenario. Because these methods use a worse case scenario approach to mishap risk assessment they fail to capture the complexity of multiple hazards causal factors and mishap relationships or multiple effects of any one mishap. Further existing methods do not allow for multiple systems and subsystem assessment to be considered in the context of a system of systems SOS such that unique complex situations may not be examined and recorded for safety program purposes.

It is therefore desirable to have a data structure that defines data items and relationships required to accurately perform mishap risk assessment by considering all hazards causal factors and mishap contributors within relevant contextual frameworks including SOSs.

The present invention obviates the above mentioned problems by providing a computer implemented data structure that provides data regarding all hazards hazard causal factors mishaps and effects thereof when performing mishap risk assessment of systems.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented method for performing mishap risk assessment within a system is provided. The method includes providing a first set of data including risk information associated with at least one hazard within the system correlating the first set of data with a second set of data defined as a plurality of mishaps of the system such that the at least one hazard correlates with each mishap to assess mishap potential storing the correlated first and second sets of data and performing mishap risk assessment within the system based the correlated data including the first and second sets of data.

A computer program product implemented the above mentioned method is also provided. Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present invention. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed invention. For a better understanding of the invention with the advantages and the features refer to the description and to the drawings.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

In accordance with a presently preferred embodiment of the present invention the components process steps and or data structures may be implemented using various types of operating systems computing platforms computer programs and or general purpose machines. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that devices of a less general purpose nature such as hardwired devices or the like may also be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the inventive concepts disclosed herewith. General purpose machines include devices that execute instruction code. A hardwired device may constitute an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a field programmable gate array FPGA or other related component.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a data structure and method for performing mishap risk assessment is provided to facilitate safety efforts for systems such as computing systems and weapon systems. There are several risks that may be associated with the use of a weapon system and these risks may be caused by multiple hazards and are recorded to account for multiple external effects such as injury to personnel damage to the equipment and the environment.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a manner in which to capture data associated with hazards and mishap situations and optionally every causal factor of the hazards. The exemplary data structure enables hazards to be correlated to one or more mishaps and causal factors to be correlated to one or more hazards. Embodiments of the present invention may also be implemented within subsystems of systems i.e. systems of systems SOS .

The plurality of external components may include a weapon subsystem s e.g. guns for providing protection against intruders warning subsystems such as a high intensity lighting subsystem e.g. a spotlight and a hailer subsystem for providing audible alarms and a sensor motion detector subsystem for detecting motions within an assessment zone of the system .

The protection system is similar to a home security system and serves as an alarm and or notification system for intrusion. Once an object enters the assessment zone of the system the system alerts an operator and initiates a tracking and identification process for example.

According to an exemplary embodiment a data structure for is provided performing mishap risk assessment of a system e.g. the protection system including the subsystems thereof . The mishap risk assessment includes determining mishap risk such as injury to personnel e.g. operator of the operator console or maintenance personnel of the subsystems through damage to equipment of the system and subsystems and and the effect on the environment. Further the present invention is not limited to being implemented within any particular system and may therefore be implemented within various types of systems as needed.

Details regarding the data structure and computer implemented method for performing mishap risk assessment of the system according to embodiments of the present invention will now be discussed. shows an overview of a data structure for mishap risk assessment of a system e.g. the protection system . The data structure includes a plurality of levels formed in a hierarchical configuration.

In according to an embodiment of the data structure is a three 3 tier data structure and the plurality of levels includes a mishap level ML a hazard level HL and an optional causal factor level CL . According to an exemplary embodiment the mishap level provides for aggregate risk assessment and record of mishap risk based upon a collection and any combinations of all open hazards and optional causal factors.

This aggregate risk assessment record may be referred to as a Mishap Risk Index MRI . The mishap level further includes all the external effects of the system that may include for example the effects on personnel equipment and the environment. The severity of effects on personnel can range from minor cuts and abrasions to severe injury leading to permanent disability or even death.

The severity of effects to equipment e.g. the weapon subsystem could be wear on components due to excessive movement or exposure to the system failing and requiring major significant maintenance work to destruction of the house household items and neighboring structures and items. The severity of effects on the environment include minor chemical spills from maintenance activity to loss of trees shrubs and wildlife from use of the weapon subsystem the hailer subsystem and light activations of the high intensity lighting subsystem . The overall scope for personnel equipment and environment exposed to potential mishap includes development of the integrated system developmental testing packaging handling shipping and transportation of the system components to the site installation and checkout maintenance operational testing training operational use and disposal.

The present invention is not limited to any particular external effects and may vary accordingly. According to an exemplary embodiment the hazard level may include analysis information including the origin thereof and multiple hazards and the external effects thereof. The hazard level further includes association information of the hazards and a plurality of mishaps at the mishap level .

According to an exemplary embodiment the causal factor level is an optional level. When all necessary analysis information is provided at the hazard level the causal factor level may be omitted. Alternatively the causal factor level may be included and provides additional information includes known issues recorded through analysis testing and inspection processes.

Detailed information concerning embodiments of the data structure and a method for performing mishap risk assessment in a system will now be discussed below with reference to .

As shown in the data structure may include a plurality of mishaps 1 to N where N may be any positive integer . According to one embodiment of the present invention a single hazard may be associated with multiple mishaps . Therefore each hazard is associated with at least one mishap . Further an optional causal factor may be associated with a hazard and a mishap . Each relationship between the mishap hazard and causal factor is maintained as applicable for each definitive baseline of the system .

According to other embodiments of the present invention as shown in there may be multiple hazards to a single mishap . The hazards may range from 1 to N. Further there may be multiple causal factors ranging from 1 to N associated with a single hazard .

According to yet another embodiment of the present invention as shown in each hazard may be associated with multiple mishaps and each causal factor may be associated with multiple hazards . The present invention is not limited to any particular number of mishaps hazards and causal factors and may vary accordingly.

Additional details regarding the data items within the data structures and the method for performing mishap risk assessment of the system will be discussed below with reference to .

Referring to the method shown in the method may be performed via a computing device e.g. the computer as depicted in or system e.g. a general purpose computer as depicted in . The process begins at operation where a user inputs or otherwise provides a first set of data associated with at least one hazard as depicted in for example of the system . According to an exemplary embodiment the first set of data associated with the hazard includes basic number and title information analysis data origin data hazard description information external effects information system information safety requirement information mishap associated data and status information.

The origin data may include user document information. The origin data may include results of system safety engineering efforts such as Preliminary Hazard Analysis PHA Safety Requirements Criteria Analysis SRCA Subsystem Hazard Analysis SSHA system Hazard Analysis SHA Operating and Support Hazard Analysis O SHA Health Hazard Analysis HHA Test Trouble Report TR safety evaluation. The system information may include system baseline information of the system and applicability of each hazard to each baseline of the system . According to an exemplary embodiment a set of data for each hazard is established for each baseline of the system . Further the hazard status information may also be included and may be determined per baseline of the system .

According to an exemplary embodiment the first set of data may further include initial current and projected risk assessment information for a given hazard. The risk definition process requires definition of a mishap e.g. mishap 1 then utilizes a projected mishap potential in terms of mishap severity i.e. the harshness of the potential personnel injury equipment damage or environmental damage and mishap probability i.e. the probability that the mishap could occur given the existence of the hazard based on the existence of the hazard . The combination of severity level and probability level dictate the mishap risk level as High Serious Medium or Low.

The risk is captured within context of the hazard and any causes i.e. causal factors that may be related to the existence of the hazard . According to an exemplary embodiment the risk assessment remains dynamic meaning those future causes conditions or discoveries or even mitigations can be factored into the assessment of severity or probability within the context of the hazard and its assessment for the defined mishap . Any changes to severity or probability could impact the final risk level of High Serious Medium or Low. The mishap risk assessment associated with each hazard is done for each of the three mishap effects personnel equipment and environment for the mishap scenario to ensure the full risk picture is captured and maintained.

The risk assessment to date is always maintained as the current risk. This enables an analyst and any decision makers to fully understand the defined risk if no additional mitigations or verifications are included or performed Initial risk is a retainer of the first documented risk assessment severity and probability as historical record. Finally projected risk is an engineering assessment of future risk associated with the hazard if recommended mitigations are funded and included within the system .

Mitigations come in the form of safer designs safety devices warning devices procedures and training. At this point the additional mishap scenarios are defined for the hazard and the risk definition process continues with the definition of a new mishap e.g. mishap 2 and the projected mishap potential in terms of mishap severity and mishap probability based on the existence of the hazard as described above. This determination is completed for every potential mishap scenario defined for a given hazard .

From operation the process continues to operation where the input first set of data associated with the hazard correlates with a second set of data defined as a plurality of mishaps such that the at least one hazard correlates with each mishap to assess mishap potential. According to an exemplary embodiment the input data may focus on at least one mishap and all associated hazards of the system . Within context the operation allows an analyst to evaluate the conditions of all hazards relating to a single mishap and to collectively assess the aggregate mishap risk severity and probability given the existence and potential from each of the collective hazards .

According to an exemplary embodiment operation may be used to assess mishap potential based on the existence of a single hazard or all related hazards . The relationships between the mishaps and the hazards are defined during the operations and . According to an exemplary embodiment the second set of data may include the same system information as mentioned above. The second set of data will also include mishap description information mishap effect information e.g. on personnel equipment or the environment mishap status information and at least one of initial current or projected mishap risk information. The mishap status information may include an opening date and last modification data of the mishap and any comments or recommendations as input by an operator.

From operation the process continues to operation where the correlated first and second sets of data are stored as records along with the relationship tables for example within a computing device e.g. the computer as depicted in or system . According to another embodiment of the present invention a third set of data including causal factor information e.g. a causal factor associated with at least one hazard of the system may also be provided.

The third set of data may include known and potential causal factors . According to an exemplary embodiment the causal factors may be related to one another as depicted by an arrow at causal factor 2 shown in . If so relational information between known and potential causal factors may also be included in the third set of data. Additional information such as causal origin information any associated hazards mishaps external effects information and system information may also be provided.

According to an exemplary embodiment the system information of the causal factors may also include information concerning any subsystem through of the system . That is system information concerning the primary system e.g. the system and any secondary system subsystems through . For system of systems SOS safety efforts the system information may be used to capture safety assessment details and may include relevant data pertaining to both the primary system and the secondary system.

When the causal factor applies to a SOS context additional information is recorded to ensure the SOS risk level is maintained along with pertinent SOS context is recorded in addition to risk. From a data architectural perspective it is likely for a causal factor to include risk at the SOS level to personnel equipment or environment that may not exist at a system level of the system or subsystem through . Therefore it is important and necessary to provide allowances for this contextual assessment and recording of risk. Next from operation the process continues to operation where mishap risk assessment within the system is performed based on the stored correlated first and second sets of data.

ROM contains the basic operating system for computer system . The operating system may alternatively reside in RAM or elsewhere as is known in the art. Examples of removable data and or program storage device include magnetic media such as floppy drives and tape drives and optical media such as CD ROM drives. Examples of mass data and or program storage device include hard disk drives and non volatile memory such as flash memory. In addition to keyboard and mouse other user input devices such as trackballs writing tablets pressure pads microphones light pens and position sensing screen displays may be connected to user interface . Examples of display devices include cathode ray tubes CRT and liquid crystal displays LCD .

A computer program with an appropriate application interface may be created by one of skill in the art and stored on the system or a data and or program storage device to simplify the practicing of this invention. In operation information for or the computer program created to run the present invention is loaded on the appropriate removable data and or program storage device fed through data port or typed in using keyboard .

In view of the above the present method embodiment may therefore take the form of computer or controller implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. The disclosure can also be embodied in the form of computer program code containing instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives flash memory or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer or controller the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention.

The disclosure may also be embodied in the form of computer program code or signal for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or controller or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits. A technical effect of the executable instructions is to implement the exemplary method described above.

Embodiments of the present invention provide computer implemented methods and data structures which eliminate existing one to one relationships and single worse case mishap risk assessments by enabling one to multiple data relationships and multiple risk assessment within context to provide accurate risk assessment based on varying conditions contributions and possible outcome.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations element components and or groups thereof.

The flow diagrams depicted herein are just examples. There are many variations to these diagrams or the operations described therein without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the operations may be performed in a differing order or some operations may be added deleted or modified. All of these variations are considered a part of the claimed invention.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

While the preferred embodiment to the invention had been described it will be understood that those skilled in the art both now and in the future may make various improvements and enhancements which fall within the scope of the claims which follow. These claims should be construed to maintain the proper protection for the invention first described.

