---

title: Methods and systems for communicating expense management information
abstract: Methods and systems for communicating expense management information between an expense management system and a mobile device are provided. The methods and systems include one or more applications for a mobile device, such as mobile phone, that enable a user, such as an expense manager for an entity such as a business entity or other organization, to use their mobile device to communicate and exchange data with an expense management system, such as a telecommunications expense management system. The methods and systems enable an expense manager to review and approve invoices, generate graphics to review usage or other data, and conduct data searches relative to the expenses being managed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09105056&OS=09105056&RS=09105056
owner: Cass Information Systems, Inc.
number: 09105056
owner_city: Bridgeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---
The embodiments described herein relate generally to methods and systems for managing payment of bills and more specifically to network based systems and methods for displaying an invoice on a mobile device and receiving approval of the invoice from the mobile device.

Corporations may rely on an expense manager to review invoices issued by a party who provides products and or services to the corporation. It may be beneficial to the corporation to contract with the expense manager to handle the large number of invoices received by the corporation. Some invoices may be received by the expense manager in an electronic format. Other invoices may be received as paper documents and require scanning or data entry to process. Typically the expense manager provides the corporation with reports that include invoice data in a format beneficial to the corporation regardless of whether the invoices were received electronically or as paper documents. Typically a manager with authority to approve invoices logs into a web based portal provided by the expense manager. Using the portal the manager is provided with invoices awaiting approval and an option to approve or deny each invoice. However the process of reviewing and approving of the invoices typically requires a computer with a full function web browser and Internet connectivity.

Use of mobile communication devices has become increasingly common. Such mobile communication devices may also include processors capable of running programs and display screens capable of displaying documents and or data to a user.

Accordingly it would be desirable to have mobile access to an expense management system for reviewing and or approving of invoices that will address the disadvantages of the known systems described above.

In one embodiment a method for communicating expense management data using a mobile device that includes a memory device and a display device coupled to a processing device is provided. The method includes transmitting at least one of a user identifier and a password to an expense management system. The method further includes displaying at least one service option on the display device wherein the at least one service option is one of a review invoice option a review wireless usage option a contacts directory search option and a geographic location search option. The method further includes transmitting a user selection of the at least one service option from the mobile device to the expense management system. The method further includes receiving data associated with the user selection at the mobile device from the expense management system. The method further includes generating at least one output using the processing device based on the received data.

In another embodiment a system for communicating expense management data using a mobile device that includes a memory device and a display device coupled to a processing device is provided. The system includes a database configured to store data associated with at least one of a user an expense resource an expense management system a database server one or more computers each computer including a processing device and a memory and at least one mobile device each mobile device including a memory device and a display device coupled to a processing device. The database database server one or more computers and at least one mobile device are configured to transmit at least one of a user identifier and a password to an expense management system. The database database server one or more computers and at least one mobile device are further configured to display at least one service option on the display device wherein the at least one service option is one of a review invoice option a review wireless usage option a contacts directory search option and a geographic location search option. The database database server one or more computers and at least one mobile device are further configured to transmit a user selection of the at least one service option from the mobile device to the expense management system. The database database server one or more computers and at least one mobile device are further configured to receive data associated with the user selection at the mobile device from the expense management system. The database database server one or more computers and at least one mobile device are further configured to generate at least one output using the processing device based on the received data.

In yet another embodiment a mobile device for communicating expense management data includes a memory device and a display device coupled to a processing device is provided. The mobile device is configured to transmit at least one of a user identifier and a password to an expense management system. The mobile device is further configured to display at least one service option on the display device wherein the at least one service option is one of a review invoice option a review wireless usage option a contacts directory search option and a geographic location search option. The mobile device is further configured to transmit a user selection of the at least one service option from the mobile device to the expense management system. The mobile device is further configured to receive data associated with the user selection at the mobile device from the expense management system. The mobile device is further configured to generate at least one output using the processing device based on the received data.

The methods and systems described herein facilitate reviewing and approving of invoices using a mobile device. More specifically a computer executable program is provided that when executed on a mobile device allows a user to review and approve invoices wherever the mobile device is able to receive data.

As described herein an employer contracts with an expense manager to manage payment of invoices for which the employer and or employees of the employer is liable. The expense manager utilizes an expense management system to perform the processes described herein. In some embodiments the expense manager is a separate entity from the employer that is a third party who provides expense management services. In other embodiments the functions of the expense manager and the expense management system are included within and performed by the employer. The expense management system provides the employer with reports of expenses paid by the employer and an inventory of devices associated with expenses paid by the employer. The methods and systems described herein allow the employer to access invoices awaiting review and to approve payment of the invoices using a mobile device. The mobile device includes a processor and may include a web browser. However the web browsers typically included within a mobile device do not include all of the capabilities included within a web browser included within a desktop computer or a laptop computer. Furthermore the wireless connection through which the mobile device receives data may be limited when compared to the high speed Internet connection utilized by desktop and laptop computers. The methods and systems described herein allow a user to access the expense management system using a mobile device and process data received from the expense management system in a manner that may be performed by the mobile device.

A technical effect of the methods and systems described herein include at least one of a transmitting at least one of a user identifier and a password to an expense management system b displaying at least one service option on the display device wherein the at least one service option is one of a review invoice option a review wireless usage option a contacts directory search option and a geographic location search option c transmitting a user selection of the at least one service option from the mobile device to the expense management system d receiving data associated with the user selection at the mobile device from the expense management system e generating at least one output using the processing device based on the received data f storing at least one mobile device application in the memory device wherein the at least one mobile device application facilitates communicating expense management data using the mobile device g executing a mobile device application on the mobile device wherein the mobile device application comprises at least one of enabling a user to alter the size of a portion of a display on the mobile device retrieving invoice data from a database remote from the mobile device displaying one or more invoice pages and displaying an invoice approval option and h displaying an invoice approval button selection of which causes transmission of a signal indicating approval of an invoice.

In one embodiment a computer program is provided and the program is embodied on a computer readable medium and utilizes a Structured Query Language SQL with a client user interface front end for administration and a web interface for standard user input and reports. In an exemplary embodiment the system is web enabled and is run on a business entity intranet. In yet another embodiment the system is fully accessed by individuals having an authorized access outside the firewall of the business entity through the Internet. In a further exemplary embodiment the system is being run in a Windows environment Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. . In yet another embodiment the system is run on a mainframe environment and a UNIX server environment UNIX is a registered trademark of X Open Company Limited located in Reading Berkshire United Kingdom . The application is flexible and designed to run in various different environments without compromising any major functionality. In some embodiments the system includes multiple components distributed among a plurality of computing devices. One or more components may be in the form of computer executable instructions embodied in a computer readable medium.

The systems and methods are not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. In addition components of each system and each method can be practiced independent and separate from other components and methods described herein. Each component and method also can be used in combination with other components and processes.

Employer may include a corporation a charitable group and or any other organization that employs a plurality of employees . Furthermore the employees may be independent contractors or in a similar relationship with employer . As part of an agreement with employees e.g. as part of an employment agreement employer may agree to provide employees with a mobile device benefit. This benefit may include but is not limited to paying for costs associated with a mobile phone voice plan a mobile phone data plan and or an internet connectivity plan with an internet service provider for employees . Employer relies on expense management system to review and pay the amounts included in invoices associated with employer and or amounts included in requests for reimbursement submitted by employees.

In the exemplary embodiment employer is responsible for expenses related to the mobile device benefit. For example a first employee and a second employee of the plurality of employees may use a mobile device associated with first service provider . In the exemplary embodiment expense management system receives an invoice from first service provider and submits funds to first service provider in exchange for the service provided to employees and . Alternatively employer may receive invoice and provide the invoice to expense management system for processing. Furthermore a third employee and a fourth employee of the plurality of employees may use a mobile device associated with second service provider . Expense management system receives an invoice from second service provider and submits funds to second service provider in exchange for the service provided to employees and . In the exemplary embodiment expense management system may submit a request for approval to employer . Request for approval may include invoices and . Employer provides expense management system with an authorization denial to request for approval .

In the exemplary embodiment multi party payment system also includes at least one mobile device . In the exemplary embodiment mobile device includes a memory device and a communications device coupled to or included within a processing device . Mobile device also includes a display device coupled to processing device for displaying information to a user of mobile device . Furthermore mobile device also includes an input device coupled to processing device for receiving an input command from a user and providing an input signal corresponding to the input command to processing device . Input device may include but is not limited to a keypad buttons a trackpad a trackball and or any other suitable type of input device that allows mobile device to function as described herein. In the exemplary embodiment display device and input device are combined for example in the form of a touch screen that displays information and also receives an input command when touched by the user. Mobile device may be referred to as a mobile phone a smart phone a table computer and or any other device that allows payment system to function as described herein.

In the exemplary embodiment mobile device is associated with employer . More specifically mobile device is assigned to a manager employed by employer . Manager uses mobile device to send and receive data. Memory device is configured to store at least one program which may be referred to herein as an application. The application when executed by processing device provides a specific functionality to mobile device . In the exemplary embodiment the application provides manager with access to and the ability to interact with expense management system .

In the exemplary embodiment expense management system provides expense management data to mobile device . More specifically manager accesses expense management system by executing the application stored on mobile device . The expense management data includes but is not limited to invoice data mobile phone number data and employee data. Invoice data may include data associated with invoices awaiting approval by manager and or data associated with payments made to service providers . The application stored within mobile device processes the expense management data to display the information requested by manager .

More specifically in the exemplary embodiment system includes a server system and a plurality of client sub systems also referred to as client systems connected to server system . In one embodiment client systems are computers including a web browser such that server system is accessible to client systems using the Internet. Client systems are interconnected to the Internet through many interfaces including a network such as a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN dial in connections cable modems and special high speed ISDN lines. Client systems could be any device capable of interconnecting to the Internet including a web based phone personal digital assistant PDA or other web based connectable equipment. A database server is connected to a database or other memory device containing information on a variety of matters as described below in greater detail. In one embodiment centralized database is stored on server system and can be accessed by potential users at one of client systems by logging onto server system through one of client systems . In an alternative embodiment database is stored remotely from server system and may be non centralized.

Each of workstations and may be any computing device that includes a web browser for example but not limited to a personal computer a laptop computer a tablet computer and or a mobile phone. Although the functions performed at the workstations typically are illustrated as being performed at respective workstations and such functions can be performed at one of many computing devices coupled to LAN . Workstations and are illustrated as being associated with separate functions only to facilitate an understanding of the different types of functions that can be performed by individuals having access to LAN .

Server system is configured to be communicatively coupled to various individuals including employees and to third parties e.g. account holders customers auditors etc. using an internet service provider ISP Internet connection . The communication in the exemplary embodiment is illustrated as being performed using the Internet however any other wide area network WAN type communication can be utilized in other embodiments i.e. the systems and processes are not limited to being practiced using the Internet. In addition and rather than WAN LAN could be used in place of WAN .

In the exemplary embodiment any authorized individual having a workstation can access system . At least one of the client systems includes a manager workstation located at a remote location. Workstations and are personal computers having a web browser. Also workstations and are configured to communicate with server system . Furthermore fax server communicates with remotely located client systems including a client system using a telephone link. Fax server is configured to communicate with other client systems and as well.

User computing device includes a processor for executing instructions. In some embodiments executable instructions are stored in a memory area . Processor may include one or more processing units e.g. in a multi core configuration . Memory area is any device allowing information such as executable instructions and or written works to be stored and retrieved. Memory area may include one or more computer readable media.

User computing device also includes at least one media output component for presenting information to user . Media output component is any component capable of conveying information to user . In some embodiments media output component includes an output adapter such as a video adapter and or an audio adapter. An output adapter is operatively coupled to processor and operatively coupleable to an output device such as a display device e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD organic light emitting diode OLED display or electronic ink display or an audio output device e.g. a speaker or headphones .

In some embodiments user computing device includes an input device for receiving input from user . Input device may include for example a keyboard a pointing device a mouse a stylus a touch sensitive panel e.g. a touch pad or a touch screen a gyroscope an accelerometer a position detector or an audio input device. A single component such as a touch screen may function as both an output device of media output component and input device .

User computing device may also include a communication interface which is communicatively coupleable to a remote device such as server system . Communication interface may include for example a wired or wireless network adapter or a wireless data transceiver for use with a mobile phone network e.g. Global System for Mobile communications GSM 3G or other mobile data network e.g. Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX .

Stored in memory area are for example computer readable instructions for providing a user interface to user via media output component and optionally receiving and processing input from input device . A user interface may include among other possibilities a web browser and client application. Web browsers enable users such as user to display and interact with media and other information typically embedded on a web page or a website from server system . A client application allows user to interact with a server application from server system .

Processor is operatively coupled to a communication interface such that server computing device is capable of communicating with a remote device such as user computing device shown in or another server computing device . For example communication interface may receive requests from user computing device via the Internet as illustrated in .

Processor may also be operatively coupled to a storage device . Storage device is any computer operated hardware suitable for storing and or retrieving data. In some embodiments storage device is integrated in server computing device . For example server computing device may include one or more hard disk drives as storage device . In other embodiments storage device is external to server computing device and may be accessed by a plurality of server computing devices . For example storage device may include multiple storage units such as hard disks or solid state disks in a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID configuration. Storage device may include a storage area network SAN and or a network attached storage NAS system.

In some embodiments processor is operatively coupled to storage device via a storage interface . Storage interface is any component capable of providing processor with access to storage device . Storage interface may include for example an Advanced Technology Attachment ATA adapter a Serial ATA SATA adapter a Small Computer System Interface SCSI adapter a RAID controller a SAN adapter a network adapter and or any component providing processor with access to storage device .

In the exemplary embodiment memory device shown in is configured to store at least one program which may be referred to herein as an application. The application when executed by processing device shown in provides a specific functionality to mobile device shown in . In the exemplary embodiment the application provides manager with access to and the ability to interact with expense management system including but not limited to communicating expense management data between mobile device and expense management system .

In the exemplary embodiment method includes transmitting at least one of a user identifier and a password to an expense management system for example expense management system . The user identifier and password correspond to an employee of employer for example manager and identify manager to expense management system . Method also includes displaying at least one service option on a display device for example display device shown in . Expense management system determines which service options to present to manager based on a security level associated with the user identifier. Service options may include but are not limited to a review invoice option a review wireless usage option a contacts directory search option and a geographic location search option.

In the exemplary embodiment method also includes receiving a user selection at mobile device . For example manager may provide a user selection to mobile device via input device shown in . Method also includes transmitting the user selection of the at least one service option from mobile device to expense management system . For example transmitting the user selection may include generating at mobile device a user selection signal and transmitting the user selection signal to expense management system .

In the exemplary embodiment method includes receiving data at mobile device from expense management system . The data may include but is not limited to expense management data associated with employer . The data transmitted by expense management system is dependent upon the security level associated with the user identifier provided when logging into expense management system . In the exemplary embodiment method also includes generating at least one graph based on the received data. For example mobile device receives data and processes the data before displaying expense management information on display device . The application also provides the user with information manipulation options for example the ability to increase the size of a section of the display i.e. zoom in on a piece of data or a portion of a graph .

Furthermore method also includes when the security level associated with the user identifier permits presenting an invoice for approval to manager . More specifically expense management information displayed on display device may include an invoice that is awaiting approval by an authorized employee of employer before expense manager submits payment to a service provider associated with the invoice. Along with the invoice the application may also display an invoice approval option for example a button on display device that if selected indicates that manager provides authorization to pay the invoice on behalf of employer . Once selected mobile device generates an invoice approval signal and transmits the invoice approval signal to expense management system . The invoice approval signal includes an identifier that identifies which invoice was approved by manager . For example each invoice transmitted by expense management system includes an invoice identifier to uniquely identify each invoice.

In the exemplary embodiment method also includes receiving a review invoice service option for example review invoice option shown in selection from manager . Upon selection of the review invoice service option mobile device displays an approve invoices view to the manager . The approve invoices view consists of three main parts an invoice list a graph view and an invoice details view.

Mobile device and more specifically the application stored and executed by processing device shown in transmits a review invoice signal to expense management system . Expense management system retrieves data associated with invoices awaiting approval associated with employer from an expense manager database shown in . The retrieved invoice data is transmitted by expense management system and received by mobile device . Mobile device generates a list of invoices awaiting approval from the invoice data and displays the invoice list on display device . Mobile device and more specifically input device receives an input signal from manager that corresponds to a selection of one of the plurality of invoices included within the list. When manager selects a specific invoice e.g. by tapping on it mobile device provides manager with the graph view and the invoice details view of data associated with the selected invoice.

In the exemplary embodiment mobile device generates a natively drawn graphic representing historical totals associated with the selected invoice. For example the graphic may include a bar chart illustrating invoice totals for a predefined number of months prior to the current month. More specifically in at least one embodiment the graph view is a representation of the wireless usage charges on the specific invoice and the graph may be able to display between for example 3 and 13 months of data. The graphic is created natively by processing device using for example an application programming interface API such as those developed under the names Core Graphics and or Core Animation by Apple Inc. An API is a specification intended to be used as an interface by software components to communicate with each other. An API may include specifications for routines data structures object classes and variables. In the exemplary embodiment mobile device requests historical data from expense management system and expense management system retrieves the requested data from expense manager database and transmits the data to mobile device .

Mobile device also requests detailed invoice data associated with the selected invoice from expense management system for display in the invoice details view. The invoice details view is a series of web pages for example HTML pages that will display detailed invoice information. Expense management system retrieves the requested data from expense manager database and transmits the data to mobile device . Mobile device and more specifically the application stored and executed by processing device generates a detailed invoice page for display on display device . More specifically in at least one embodiment the detailed invoice view will be a series of UIWebViews inside of a UIScrollView that allows the user to swipe through different pages of detail information. For closer inspection an individual page will zoom to full screen when tapped by the user. UIWebView is an application class developed and implemented by Apple Inc. that allows developers to embed web content in an iOS native application. Accordingly one can create HTML pages that are viewed from within an iPad iPod iPhone native application. The UIScrollView class also developed and implemented by Apple Inc. provides support for displaying content that is larger than the size of the application s window. It enables users to scroll within that content by making swiping gestures and to zoom in and back from portions of the content by making pinching gestures. A primary difference between a normal web interface and an iOS interface on an iPhone or iPad is that the latter must operate within a smaller screen footprint than a web interface and incorporate less screen geography accordingly economy in presentation of information is relevant.

In the exemplary embodiment mobile device also displays an invoice approval option for example a button on display device that if selected indicates that manager provides authorization to pay the selected invoice on behalf of employer . In the exemplary embodiment method also includes determining if manager approves of the selected invoice. For example if mobile device receives an invoice approval selection from manager via input device mobile device generates an invoice approval signal and transmits the invoice approval signal to expense management system . Alternatively upon selection of the invoice approval selection mobile device may transmit the approved invoice to expense management system . Once the selected invoice is approved method includes updating the list of invoices awaiting approval. Moreover method may also include confirming the invoice approval selection for example by displaying an additional approval selection e.g. a popup alert box asking manager if the selected invoice is approved. This confirmation prevents submission of an invoice as approved after an inadvertent or accidental selection of the invoice approval selection.

If mobile device determines that the selected invoice has not been approved by manager for example based on an input from manager requesting to return to the list of invoices awaiting approval e.g. pressing a back selection mobile device again generates a list of invoices awaiting approval from the invoice data and displays the list on display device .

In the exemplary embodiment method includes retrieving wireless usage data to be displayed in a usage view by display device . The usage view may include but is not limited to a graph view and a usage details view. In the exemplary embodiment mobile device generates a natively drawn graphic representing historical totals associated with wireless usage associated with employer . For example the graphic may include a bar chart illustrating total wireless usage by employees of employer for a predefined number of months prior to the current month. More specifically in at least one embodiment the graph view is a representation of the wireless usage for example over the past 3 to 13 months. The graphic is created natively by processing device using for example Core Graphics and or Core Animation APIs. In the exemplary embodiment mobile device requests historical data from expense management system and expense management system retrieves the requested data from expense manager database and transmits the data to mobile device .

Mobile device also requests detailed usage data associated with employer from expense management system for display in the usage details view. The usage details view is a series of web pages for example HTML pages that will display detailed usage information. Expense management system retrieves the requested data from expense manager database and transmits the data to mobile device . Mobile device and more specifically the application stored and executed by processing device generates a detailed usage page for display on display device . More specifically in at least one embodiment the detailed usage view will be a series of UIWebViews inside of a UIScrollView that allows the user to swipe through different pages of detail information. For closer inspection an individual page will zoom to full screen when tapped by the user.

In the exemplary embodiment method includes providing a wireless device search option. For example mobile device may display the wireless device search option for example as a button on display device that if selected indicates that manager desires to perform a search of wireless device data stored within expense management system . For example mobile device may display a field that allows manager to input search criteria. The search criteria may include at least a portion of a wireless identification number. The wireless identification number may include but is not limited to a mobile phone number a device identifier such as a mobile identification number MIN an electronic serial number ESN an internet protocol IP address and or any other number that uniquely identifies one wireless device. The search criteria may also include at least a portion of a user name or identifier. The user name or identifier may include but is not limited to a user name an employee number and or any other identifier that uniquely identifies an employee of employer . Mobile device generates a wireless search request signal that includes the search criteria and transmits the signal to expense management system . Expense management system performs a search of usage data stored within expense manager database and transmits search result data associated with the results of the search back to mobile device .

In the exemplary embodiment method includes determining if the search result data received from expense management system is wireless number data or user name data. If the search result data is wireless number data mobile device displays a list of search results that includes but is not limited to wireless identification numbers device names and or service providers that provide service associated with the wireless identification numbers returned after applying the search criteria. If the data is user name data mobile device displays a list of search results that includes but is not limited to user names and or e mail addresses that were returned after applying the search criteria.

In the exemplary embodiment method also includes receiving a usage details selection from manager . For example mobile device and more specifically input device receives an input signal from manager that corresponds to a selection of one of the plurality of search results included within the list. When manager selects a specific search result e.g. by tapping on it mobile device provides manager with the graph view and the usage details view of data associated with the selected search result.

In the exemplary embodiment method includes logging into expense management system using mobile device . In the exemplary embodiment method includes receiving an input corresponding to a geographic location search option for example geographic location search option shown in selection from manager . In the exemplary embodiment method includes receiving a geographic location search criteria via input device from manager . For example mobile device may display a field that allows manager to input search criteria. The geographic location search criteria may include but is not limited to a city name a state name a zip code and or any other geographical descriptor that allows the application executed by mobile device to function as described herein. Mobile device generates a geographic location search request signal that includes the search criteria and transmits the signal to expense management system . Expense management system performs a search of usage data stored within expense manager database and transmits search result data associated with the results of the search back to mobile device .

In the exemplary embodiment method includes displaying a list of locations returned as part of the search results from expense management system . For example mobile device may display the list of locations on display device . Mobile device and more specifically input device receives an input signal from manager that corresponds to a selection of one of the locations included within the list. When manager selects a specific location e.g. by tapping on it mobile device provides manager with a map view and a location details view of data associated with the selected location.

In the exemplary embodiment method includes retrieving usage data associated with the selected location to be displayed in a location usage view by display device . The location usage view may include but is not limited to a map view and a location usage details view. In the exemplary embodiment mobile device generates a natively drawn map for display by display device . For example the map may be created natively by processing device using for example a native API developed under the name MapKit by DeLorme Publishing Company Inc.

Mobile device also requests detailed usage data associated with the selected location from expense management system for display in the location details view. The location may be selected by manager by touching a location on the displayed map. The location details view is a series of web pages for example HTML pages that will display detailed usage information associated with the selected location. Expense management system retrieves the requested data from expense manager database and transmits the data to mobile device . Mobile device and more specifically the application stored and executed by processing device generates the detailed location usage page for display on display device . More specifically in at least one embodiment the detailed location usage view will be a series of UIWebViews inside of a UIScrollView that allows the user to swipe through different pages of detail information. For closer inspection an individual page will zoom to full screen when tapped by the user.

In the exemplary embodiment method includes logging into expense management system using mobile device . In the exemplary embodiment method includes receiving an input corresponding to a contacts directory search option for example contacts directory search option shown in selection from manager . In the exemplary embodiment method includes receiving a contacts directory search criteria via input device from manager . For example mobile device may display a field that allows manager to input search criteria. The contact directory search criteria may include but is not limited to a first name a last name and or any portion thereof. Mobile device generates a contacts directory search request signal that includes the search criteria and transmits the signal to expense management system . Expense management system performs a search of contacts directory data stored within expense manager database and transmits search result data associated with the results of the search back to mobile device .

In the exemplary embodiment method includes displaying a list of contacts e.g. employee names returned as part of the search results from expense management system . For example mobile device may display the list of contacts on display device . Mobile device and more specifically input device receives an input signal from manager that corresponds to a selection of one of the contacts included within the list. When manager selects a specific contact e.g. by tapping on it mobile device provides manager with a details view of data associated with the selected contact.

Mobile device also requests contact directory data associated with the selected contact from expense management system for display in contact details view. The contact details view may include a single web page or a series of web pages for example HTML pages that will display detailed contact information associated with the selected contact. Expense management system retrieves the requested data from expense manager database and transmits the data to mobile device . Mobile device and more specifically the application stored and executed by processing device generates the contact details page for display by display device . More specifically in at least one embodiment the contacts detail view will be a series of UIWebViews inside of a UIScrollView that allows the user to swipe through different pages of detail information. For closer inspection an individual page will zoom to full screen when tapped by the user.

In the exemplary embodiment within the contact details view mobile device also provides a compose message option. For example mobile device may display a compose message button that when selected addresses a message to the selected contact. The message may include but is not limited to an electronic mail e mail message or an SMS text message. Alternatively manager may select the compose message option by touching the e mail address displayed within the contact details view.

In the exemplary embodiment within the contact details view mobile device may also provide a dial phone option. For example mobile device may display a dial phone button that when selected dials the phone number associated with the selected contact to initiate a phone call to the contact. Alternatively manager may select the dial phone option by touching the phone number displayed within the contact details view.

In the exemplary embodiment within the contact details view mobile device may also provide a map view option. For example mobile device may display a map view button that when selected causes mobile phone to generate a map showing the location associated with the selected contact. More specifically the contact details view may include a residential address for the selected contact. When the map view button is selected a map is displayed on display device showing the residential address and a predefined area around the residential address. Alternatively manager may select the map view option by touching the address displayed within the contact details view.

In an exemplary embodiment mobile device may also provide a contacts edit option in which the user will be able to enter edit or remove specific information regarding a contact or remove the contact entirely.

Described herein are exemplary methods and systems for reviewing and approving of invoices using a mobile device. More specifically a computer executable program is provided that when executed on the mobile device allows a user to review and approve invoices wherever the mobile device is able to receive data. The program executed on the mobile device is configured to facilitate performing the methods described herein without use of a full function web browser. The limited functionality of the program reduces the size of the program when compared to a full function web browser. The limited functionality of the program also minimizes the data transferred between the mobile device and a central system which allows for suitable operation of the mobile device and system when data transfer rates are lower than for example a high speed Internet connection.

The methods and systems described herein facilitate efficient and economical payment of expenses. Exemplary embodiments of methods and systems are described and or illustrated herein in detail. The methods and systems are not limited to the specific embodiments described herein but rather components of each system as well as steps of each method may be utilized independently and separately from other components and steps described herein. Each component and each method step can also be used in combination with other components and or method steps.

When introducing elements components etc. of the methods and systems described and or illustrated herein the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the element s component s etc. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional element s component s etc. other than the listed element s component s etc.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal language of the claims.

