---

title: Method and system for distribution of user generated content
abstract: Systems and methods for distributing user-generated content are disclosed. Specifically, embodiments of the present invention may allow content to be generated by a user at a manufacturer's site with respect to a corresponding product and this content distributed to one or more retailers who sell that product such that the user-generated content may be incorporated into the retailer's site or brick and mortar location in conjunction with that product to allow consumers shopping at that retailer to access or view such user-generated content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08666853&OS=08666853&RS=08666853
owner: Bazaarvoice, Inc.
number: 08666853
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121012
---
This application is a continuation of and claims a benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 of the filing date of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 243 679 by inventors Chad Bockius et al. entitled Method and System for Distribution of User Generated Content filed on Oct. 1 2008 which in turn claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 076 852 filed Jun. 30 2008 entitled Method and System for Distribution of Generated Content by Chad Bockius et al. both of which are hereby fully incorporated by reference herein.

This invention relates generally to the distribution of content. More particularly embodiments of this invention relate to the distribution of user generated content. Even more specifically certain embodiments of this invention relate to the distribution of user generated content gathered by a manufacturer which may include manufacturers or distributors of goods providers of services etc. .

Today s consumer is inundated with advertising. In fact advertising is so ubiquitous it is often times ignored. What is more many people lack the belief that companies tell the truth in advertisements. As a result word of mouth marketing and advertising has become increasingly important with respect to the sales of certain products. Word of mouth refers to the passing of information especially recommendations but also general information. In the context of advertising and marketing the use of word of mouth may mean passing information between consumers or other entities including manufacturers experts retailers etc. to convey aspects or merits of a product or service or the experience one person has related to that product or service or related products or services.

The emergence of the importance of word of mouth marketing and advertising has coincided with the use of the Internet for researching shopping and purchasing of products. Thus online marketing and advertising has also become increasingly important. The use of word of mouth marketing in an online setting may therefore be an effective method for such online advertising as consumer recommendations allow word of mouth advertising to be disseminated either online or offline.

In fact according to a 2007 global Nielsen survey consumer recommendations are the most credible form of advertising as cited by 78 of the study s respondents. When businesses enable customers or other types of users to write reviews ask or answer questions from the community or share experiences they create content that become powerful forms of marketing and in particular as discussed above word of mouth marketing.

This view has been widely reinforced by many retailers retailers will be used herein to refer to any type of seller of product or service for example both online and brick and mortar who report that products with relatively more reviews sell better and are returned less often. Thus user generated content comprising any information such as text audio video or other information carrying medium generated by a user who is a consumer of goods a product website service purchaser of the product etc. may be extremely important to manufacturers retailers or other sellers of a product or service collectively referred to herein as a product as user generated content may allow products to be differentiated and sales of products increased.

As this user generated content may include such things as user reviews user stories ratings comments problems issues question answers or other type of content which for example a user is allowed to compose or submit through any medium there may be many methods and locations for example online or offline where a user may be allowed to generate content and the user content generated may be provided in a wide variety of mediums or formats the distribution of this user generated content may be difficult. In fact in many cases user generated content may be more effectively generated or gathered at one location and more effectively utilized at a different location. Thus the effective collection and distribution of user generated content may be important to both manufacturers and retailers of products as utilization of such user generated content may increase sales of these products.

Accordingly improved systems and methods for the collection and distribution of user generated content are desired.

Systems and methods for distributing user generated content are disclosed. Specifically embodiments of the present invention may allow content to be generated by a user at a manufacturer s site with respect to a corresponding product and this content distributed to one or more retailers who sell that product such that the user generated content may be incorporated into the retailer s site or brick and mortar location in conjunction with that product to allow consumers shopping at that retailer to access or view such user generated content.

More particularly users may generate and submit content on a manufacturer s site using one or more content generation tools incorporated in the manufacturer s site. User generated content may be received at a content distribution system and vetted using a moderation process by which undesired user generated content may be filtered out either before it is distributed to retailers or before the undesired user generated content is incorporated into a retailer s site or brick and mortar location. User generated content associated with a particular product may then be distributed to one or more retailers who sell this product such that this content may be incorporated into the retailer s site or brick and mortar location in association with that product. In certain embodiments a matching process may be utilized to match a product of a manufacturer with a product at a retailer s site such that user generated content may be easily disseminated to a retailer and incorporated at the retailer with respect to the correct product.

In one embodiment user generated content may be received from a manufacturer of a first product at a content distribution system wherein the user generated content corresponds to the first product or the manufacturer. The user generated content may be associated with one or more second products sold by a retailer and the user generated content corresponding to the first product may be distributed from the content distribution system to the retailer and incorporated into a portion of a site of the retailer corresponding to the one or more second products. The manufacturer can then be charged a fee based on the distribution of this user generated content.

Aspects and embodiments of the invention may provide the advantage of improving retailer sales by increasing online and in store awareness of the manufacturer s products driving sales which may cost the retailer nothing . Manufacturers are able to differentiate their products and create a link to consumers at the same time.

Furthermore manufacturers that provide user generated content may be able to generate more shelf space on online retailer sites allowing customers to differentiate products in the midst of competitive products. This allows manufacturers to increase overall product information without generating themselves. Additionally by distributing such user generated content manufacturers can increase overall content volume such as number of reviews or other types of content therefore increasing the chances that its products will be chosen by shoppers who are interested in hearing the opinions and experiences or obtaining assistance from other users familiar with the product.

This user generated content may be seamlessly integrated with that generated or found on retailers sites so the consumer cannot tell whether the reviews came from the retailer or the manufacturer. Alternatively this integrated content may be identifiable by the consumer as being sourced from the manufacturer or the content may be segregated and clearly denoted as being sourced from the manufacturer. Consumers can find a wider variety of reviews and content at their favorite retailer site enabling them to research and buy in one place. As a result consumers may not have to rely on a salesperson at a store to provide information. They can read about tests conducted by expert reviewers get product specifics from the manufacturer ask experts or product owners questions and get reviews and real world experiences from consumers like them.

Retailers or manufacturers may also make the content sourced from the manufacturer available within the retailer s brick and mortar store in the form of shelf tags in store signage kiosks mobile web sites mobile SMS messages in store video marketing available to in store shoppers to the same effect as online shoppers.

Retailers can instrument or tag their sites and brick and mortar stores using internet web analytics methods to measure how user generated content from manufacturers affects sales conversions repeat store visits time spent onsite shopping cart abandonment average order size website traffic or in store foot traffic volume. This analysis can fuel further merchandising efforts such as allowing top rated products to be included in special navigation paths or highlighted in customer communications.

Thus user generated content helps increase the overall attention and content a manufacturer s product can get online and offline. Instead a manufacturer may pay a fee to a content distributor for distributing content generated at the manufacturer s site to one or more retailers which sell the product. In conjunction with the payment from manufacturers to the content distributor the content distributor may provide a variety of services including the collection and moderation of such user generated content the association of products offered by the manufacturer to products sold at the retailer and formatting and hosting of user generated content.

Thus instead of being paid based upon lead generation for example referring or directing a person to a retailer content distributor may leverage its position as a centralized location for the collection and distribution of user generated content to implement a number of payment schemes to charge a manufacturer based upon the distribution of user generated content obtained from the manufacturer. These pricing schemes may be tiered schemes based the amount of user generated content associated with a product brand manufacturer etc the number of retailers to which the content is distributed the number of times user generated content is distributed to each retailer for example number of views of pages in which user generated content from that manufacturer incorporated some other criteria or some combination of criteria. The information to calculate such fees may be readily determined as user generated content may be both received at and distributed from the content distributor.

These and other aspects of the invention will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. The following description while indicating various embodiments of the invention and numerous specific details thereof is given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many substitutions modifications additions or rearrangements may be made within the scope of the invention and the invention includes all such substitutions modifications additions or rearrangements.

The invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the nonlimiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known starting materials processing techniques components and equipment are omitted so as not to unnecessarily obscure the invention in detail. It should be understood however that the detailed description and the specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention are given by way of illustration only and not by way of limitation. Various substitutions modifications additions and or rearrangements within the spirit and or scope of the underlying inventive concept will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this disclosure. Embodiments discussed herein can be implemented in suitable computer executable instructions that may reside on a computer readable medium e.g. a HD hardware circuitry or the like or any combination.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process process article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

Additionally any examples or illustrations given herein are not to be regarded in any way as restrictions on limits to or express definitions of any term or terms with which they are utilized. Instead these examples or illustrations are to be regarded as being described with respect to one particular embodiment and as illustrative only. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any term or terms with which these examples or illustrations are utilized will encompass other embodiments which may or may not be given therewith or elsewhere in the specification and all such embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of that term or terms. Language designating such nonlimiting examples and illustrations includes but is not limited to for example for instance e.g. in one embodiment .

Embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in a computer communicatively coupled to a network for example the Internet another computer or in a standalone computer. As is known to those skilled in the art the computer can include a central processing unit CPU at least one read only memory ROM at least one random access memory RAM at least one hard drive HD and one or more input output I O device s . The I O devices can include a keyboard monitor printer electronic pointing device for example mouse trackball stylist etc. or the like. In embodiments of the invention the computer has access to at least one database over the network.

ROM RAM and HD are computer memories for storing computer executable instructions executable by the CPU or capable of being complied or interpreted to be executable by the CPU. Within this disclosure the term computer readable medium or is not limited to ROM RAM and HD and can include any type of data storage medium that can be read by a processor. For example a computer readable medium may refer to a data cartridge a data backup magnetic tape a floppy diskette a flash memory drive an optical data storage drive a CD ROM ROM RAM HD or the like. The processes described herein may be implemented in suitable computer executable instructions that may reside on a computer readable medium for example a disk CD ROM a memory etc. . Alternatively the computer executable instructions may be stored as software code components on a DASD array magnetic tape floppy diskette optical storage device or other appropriate computer readable medium or storage device.

In one exemplary embodiment of the invention the computer executable instructions may be lines of C Java HTML or any other programming or scripting code. Other software hardware network architectures may be used. For example the functions of the present invention may be implemented on one computer or shared among two or more computers. In one embodiment the functions of the present invention may be distributed in the network. Communications between computers implementing embodiments of the invention can be accomplished using any electronic optical ratio frequency signals or other suitable methods and tools of communication in compliance with known network protocols.

Additionally the functions of the disclosed embodiments may be implemented on one computer or shared distributed among two or more computers in or across a network. Communications between computers implementing embodiments can be accomplished using any electronic optical radio frequency signals or other suitable methods and tools of communication in compliance with known network protocols.

Before discussing specific embodiments a brief overview of the context of the disclosure may be helpful. As discussed above the generation distribution and use of user generated content is increasingly important in the modern marketplace. As such in many cases retailers may provide customers the ability to produce such user generated content. These retailers may however sell a wide variety of products from a wide variety of manufacturers. As a consequence it may be difficult to build up a critical mass of user generated content enough to effect purchasing or other consumer decisions with respect to any particular one product.

It is therefore in the best interest of manufacturers including other wholesalers sellers etc. to provide methods that enable a user to generate content regarding one of their products and many manufacturers have done just that. In many instances however these manufacturers may not be the main outlets for the sales of these products thus it may be desired to provide this user generated content created at the manufacturer s site to the actual sellers of the manufacturer s products. The dissemination of this content has however proved problematic for a variety of reasons. For example retailers i.e. any seller of a manufacturer s product may desire to have user generated content vetted before it is included on their sites the same product may be differently identified with respect to the manufacturer s site and the retailer site it may be time consuming to manually incorporate such user generated content into a retailer s website etc. Thus what is desired are systems and methods which allow generation of content by a user at a manufacturer s site and the simple distribution and incorporation of this user generated content at appropriate retailers sites.

To that end attention is now directed to embodiments of the systems and methods for distributing user generated content. Specifically embodiments of the present invention may allow content to be generated by a user at a manufacturer s site with respect to a corresponding product and this content distributed to one or more retailers who sell that product such that the user generated content may be incorporated into the retailer s site or brick and mortar location in conjunction with that product to allow consumers shopping at that retailer to access or view such user generated content.

More particularly user s may generate and submit content on a manufacturers site using one or more content generation tools incorporated in the manufacturer s site. User generated content may be received at a content distribution system and vetted using a moderation process by which undesired user generated content may be filtered out either before it is distributed to retailers or before the undesired user generated content is incorporated into a retailer s site or brick and mortar location. User generated content associated with a particular product may then be distributed to one or more retailers who sell this product such that this content may be incorporated into the retailer s site or brick and mortar location in association with that product. In certain embodiments a matching process may be utilized to match a product of a manufacturer with the a product at a retailer s site such that user generated content may be easily disseminated to a retailer and incorporated at the retailer with respect to the correct product.

Retailers may be provided with an interface to monitor aspects of this process including the generation of content at their site by users or the incorporation of user generated content created at a manufacturer s site. This interface may for example allow a retailer to run a report by categories of products for sale brands user generated content for example user generated content accepted or rejected for publishing etc.

Turning now to one embodiment of an architecture including one embodiment of a content distribution system is depicted. Manufacturers shown individually as manufacturers . . . may produce wholesale distribute or otherwise be affiliated with the manufacturer or distribution of one or more products. Retailers shown individually as retailers . . . may be sales outlets for products made by one or more of manufacturers . In fact in most cases each retailer will sell products from multiple manufacturers . These products may be provided for sale in conjunction with one or more websites referred to as sites shown for the individual retailers as sites . . . or brick and mortar stores provided by each of retailers such that users at computing devices may access the retailer s site over network for example the Internet in order to purchase these products or perform other actions.

In addition to offering the ability to purchase these products retailer s site may offer the ability for a user to access user generated content associated with the products offered for sale on the retailer s site . By accessing such user generated content at the retailer s site a user may be better able to make a purchasing decision with respect to the various products offered for sale on that retailer s site or may be more inclined to buy a product as the user feels that the product has received positive user generated content reviews ratings etc. from a critical mass of other users etc. A user may thus purchase manufacturer s product from a retailer using retailer s site .

Retailer site may also offer the ability for a user to generate content with respect to products offered for sale by retailer or other products . In other words a user may utilize the retailer s site to generate user reviews ratings comments problems issues question answers or almost any other type of content regarding a product or experience with the product brand manufacturer or retailer where this user generated content may be displayed to other users accessing retailer s site .

It will be apparent however that there may be many other ways to purchase or obtain such a product. The product may be offered for sale at many physical stores which may or may not have an online presence for example a site at other retailer s sites the product may be purchased second hand received as a gift etc. At some point then the person who obtained this product may desire to provide some sort of feedback on this product and for a variety of reasons such a purchaser may not have access to or may not desire to utilize retailer s site to generate content in association with the obtained product.

To allow these types of people among other types to provide user generated content with respect to a particular product manufacturers may provide manufacturer s sites where these sites or other means of collecting information from the user manufacturer s site shown for the individual manufacturers as sites . . . can provide the ability for a user to generate content with respect to the manufacturer s products. In other words a user may use the manufacturer s site or these other means to generate user reviews ratings comments problems issues question answers or almost any other type of content regarding a product brand or manufacturer usually regardless of where the user purchased the manufacturer s product.

In one embodiment such user generated content may include reviews stories ask answer content or any other type of content in any format which the user wishes to add regarding a product brand or service collectively referred to as a product herein . Reviews may correspond to a user evaluation of a product and include ratings of product for example a number of stars pros and cons of the product a descriptive title and a description of a user s experience with a product attributes of the user generating the review for example demographic information other product which compliment or may be used with the product being reviewed or any other type of evaluation of a product or aspects of a user s experience with the product. Ask Answer content may comprise questions or answers submitted by a user retailer or manufacturer concerning a potential purchase decision for example regarding the capabilities or use of a product demographic information on a user generating a question or answer. Stories may be user generated content which may pertain to open ended experiences with a product which may be more tangentially related to the product than for example reviews.

In fact a reader contemplating these types of scenarios may realize that a manufacturer s site may receive much more user generated content pertaining to a particular product of that manufacturer than a retailer site on which the same product is sold. This discrepancy results in no small part from the myriad number of ways of obtaining a particular product and that the association that a consumer makes between a manufacturer and a product may be much greater than the association perceived by a consumer between the product and a retailer who sold that product.

As the amount of user generated content associated with a product at a retailer s site may greatly affect the sale of that product both at that site and off line purchases as well it may be desirable to both manufacturers of a product and retailers who sell that product that any user generated content created in association with that product be displayed in conjunction with that product on a retailer s site which may increase revenue for both a retailer and a manufacturer of the product .

Content distribution system may therefore be coupled to network and serve to distribute content generated at manufacturer s site with respect to a particular product to each of retailers sites which offers that product for sale such that the content generated by a user with respect to that product at the manufacturer s site is incorporated into one or more of the retailer s sites where the product is offered. Thus content distribution system allows content from one manufacturer for example the manufacturer of a product to be distributed to many retailers who offer the product for sale. By centralizing the distribution and incorporation of such user generated content a number of technical advantages may be achieved especially with regards to the processing and storage of such user generated content including the moderation of such user generated content and the formatting of such user generated for incorporation in the sites of retailers .

Furthermore such a centralized distribution system may have a number of business advantages. For example as the sale of their products is important to manufacturers these manufacturers may pay operators of content distribution system for formatting or distributing the content generated at the manufacturer s sites to the retailer s sites . This is in contrast to the usual payment flows where the retailer gets paid for displaying advertising or content aggregators getting paid by portals who display the data and who in turn charge manufacturers for lead generation. Similarly since the incorporation of user generated content may also drive off line purchases after reading reviews at a site a potential purchaser may drive to a physical store to make a purchase of that good payment may be made by a manufacturer or retailer irrespective of where the product was purchased for example on line versus off line purchases .

Content distribution system will now be discussed in more detail. Content distributing system may include one or more computers communicatively coupled to a network and a data store . Data store may comprise set of user content which may be associated with one or more products of manufacturers where this user generated content may have been generated at manufacturer s site retailer s site or another location. A set of mappings store associations between products of manufacturers and products offered by retailers .

Content distribution system may also include a content distribution application which comprises an interface a moderation module and a matching module . The interface may be one or more web pages or other type of GUI which may accessed over network allowing a user such as a marketing director affiliated with a manufacturer or retailer to monitor or affect the distribution of user generated content including observing the generation of content at their site by users or the incorporation of user generated content created at a manufacturer s site . This interface may for example allow a retailer to run a report by categories of products for sale brands user generated content for example accepted or rejected user generated content etc. One embodiment of such an interface is depicted in . Moderation module may moderate for example filter or otherwise select content which is or is not to be excluded or included. Matching module may serve to match user generated content received from a manufacturer associated with a particular product with the same product on a retailer site .

A user may generate content regarding a product at manufacture s site using a content generation tool for example a GUI webpage etc. shown for the individual manufacturers as . . . offered on the manufacturer s site . This tool may be implemented or developed by operators of content distribution system and provided to manufacturers for use with their sites to facilitate the generation of content by user s or the subsequent processing and distribution of such content by content distribution system . These tools may be hosted by either the manufacturer for example operators of manufacturer s site or by content distribution system . Thus for example on a page of manufacturer s site a reference to content generation tool may be included such that the tool hosted at content distribution system may be included in the site .

In any event the content generated by the user with respect to a product may be received by content distribution system. The received content may be moderated by moderation module to determine if such content should be utilized for display on a site or may be edited for suitability. This content can then be associated with one or more products offered for sale by retailer or offered by the manufacturer by in one embodiment associating the user generated content with a product identifier for a product and stored in data store .

A user shopping at for example retailer s site may access a web page or other portion of the site corresponding to a particular product. User generated content associated with that product may be displayed in an area shown for individual retailer websites as areas . . . such that a user viewing a portion of the retailer s site associated with a particular product may have user generated content associated with that product displayed to him. The display of this user generated content to the user while he is shopping may in turn motivate the user to make a purchase through retailer s site .

Manufacturers may pay therefore pay operators of content distribution system for distributing this user generated content to the retailer s sites . The payment may be based on a flat fee structure the amount size or number of pieces of user generated content for example number of reviews the number of times user generated content is viewed for example as determined by number of page views some other payment metric or some combination of payment metrics wherein the cost structured may be tiered or otherwise segmented. After reviewing this disclosure it will be noted that the position of content distribution system within the content distribution may facilitate the implementation of many types of payment methodologies as it may be relatively easy for content distribution system to accumulate the number of times particular user generated content is provided to a retailer s site or how much user content associated with a manufacturer s products is distributed etc. It will also be noted that the manufacturer may be paying the operators of a centralized content distribution system for the distribution of content created at the manufacturer s site to retailers who sell those products regardless of whether a product is purchased from retailer .

Moving to a flow diagram for one embodiment of a method of distributing and incorporating user generated content is depicted. At step users may generate content with respect to one or more products produced or provided by the manufacturer at the manufacturer s site . As discussed above in one embodiment this content may be generated using a content generation tool for example a GUI webpage etc. offered on the manufacturer s site . At certain intervals then at step a set of user generated content may be received at content distribution system where each piece of user generated content received may correspond to a product associated with manufacturer . The reception of this user generated content by content distribution system may occur in almost any number of ways including through a call into a web service provided by content distribution system using an Application Programming Interface API such that user generated content may be provided through this API the user generated content may be generated using a tool hosted by content distribution system so user generated content generated at manufacturer s site is hosted at content distribution system user generated content may be sent or gathered from a third party not a retailer or manufacturer such as a web site which allows users to review a wide variety of products or received using a wide variety of other methods.

This content may be moderated at step to filter the user generated content in some way. This moderation process may include screening the received set of user generated content for profanity discriminatory speech personal information competitor references spam vacuous content or almost any other screening or filtering desired. Content may be discarded based upon this filtering or appropriately edited either automatically or with human involvement.

This moderation may be accomplished through the use of one or more rules which may be selected altered implemented modified etc. by users associated with manufacturers etc. through interface . In one embodiment these rules may be agreed upon by manufacturers and retailers so user generated content may be filtered according to both the manufacturers and retailers desires. It will be noted that each combination of manufacturer and retailers selling products from that manufacturer may agree upon a different set of rules and content associated with that manufacturer s products may be filtered according to those rules such that content from manufacturer that is desirable to retailer may not be desirable to retailer based on moderation rules agreed to by retailers and manufacture

At step the set of user generated content may be matched. This matching process includes identifying one or products at a retailer corresponding to a piece of user generated content such that each piece of content may be associated with a product offered for sale by a retailer if such a product exists. Specifically in many cases retailers and manufacturers may refer to products differently for example different UPCs different SKUs etc. . Thus in one embodiment mappings may be established between products for sale at retailers and products offered by manufacturers . These mappings may comprise association between one or more product identifiers for products offered by manufacturers and one or more product identifiers for products for sale at retailers . Additionally a piece of user generated content may be associated with a product identifier for example used by manufacturer such that using a product identifier used by either a manufacturer or a retailer corresponding user generated content can be identified.

By utilizing mappings of product identifiers used by a manufacturer to those used by a retailer a number of advantages may be achieved. Of significant note is that almost any type of desired matching may be accomplished including one product offered by a manufacturer to a corresponding product sold by a retailer multiple products offered by a manufacturer to one product sold by a retailer or one product offered by a manufacturer to multiple products sold by a retailer . This ability may be extremely advantageous as in many cases the same product may be offered in many configurations for example computers with different amounts of memory digital music players with of different memory sizes or colors etc. . Manufacturers and retailers may however identify these products differently for example use different product identifiers and may group these products differently. In other words a particular product in multiple configurations may be identified by different product identifiers at a manufacturer but may be identified by a single product number at a retailer or vice versa. By establishing mappings between product identifiers used by manufacturers and retailers appropriate user generated content may be associated with a product or group of products no matter the difference in product identifiers or groupings of products utilized by manufactures or retailers .

User generated content associated with a product offered for a sale at the site of a retailer may then be incorporated in conjunction with that product on the retailer s site at step . In one embodiment a web page or portion of the site or a retailer corresponding to the product for sale may have an area where user generated content associated with that product is to be displayed. The source code associated with that area may comprise a reference or call for example an HTTP request associated with that retailer s product identifier for that product. The HTTP request may be directed to content distribution system which may receive the request and using the retailer s product identifier determine user generated content associated with that retailer s product identifier for example using mappings and return the user generated content associated with that product to the retailer for display in the area of the portion of the retailer s site corresponding to that product.

Additionally before distributing the user generated content to the retailer s site the content distribution system may format the user generated content according to a particular format where the format may be a format used by the retailer the manufacturer the content distribution system or some other format entirely. In one embodiment the display of the user generated content in the retailer site can be varied to include or exclude a reference to a source for example the manufacturer including the branding logo of that source and a hyperlink back to the website of that source client. The display of user generated content may also be sorted such that user generated content may be segregated or ordered by source or intermixed with one other summarized or condensed with accessed to the full version on demand and be accessible or inaccessible to web search engines such as Google etc. It should be noted that appropriate user generated content may be formatted sorted or otherwise configured for display on a web site in almost any manner desired. For example a hyperlink may be provided on a portion of a site corresponding to a product such that when a user clicks on the hyperlink a pop up window comprising the user generated content may appear. Embodiments of the incorporation of user generated content into a web page for a product at a retailer site are depicted in B C D and E.

In many cases it may also be desirable to display content generated at a manufacturer s site in conjunction with that product at the manufacturer s site itself. Thus in many cases user generated content generated at a manufacturer and associated with a particular product may also be distributed to the manufacturer offering that product at step so user content generated at that manufacturer for that product may at step be incorporated into that manufacturer s site in conjunction with a portion of that site corresponding to that product.

As can be imagined from a review of the above discussion there may be a large number of both manufacturers and retailers a large number of products a wide variety of different product identifiers and product configurations. Thus the number of permutations of mappings between product identifiers may be commensurately huge and the matching of products offered by each retailer to those offered by each manufacturer may be difficult or time consuming. Thus efficient method for matching products associated with two sources such that a piece of user generated content may be associated with the proper product is desired. It may be desired that embodiments of such methods avoid using any type of data to match that is ambiguous such as a customer specific identifier or natural text such as a name or description that might yield false positive matches.

Referring to a flow diagram of one embodiment of a method for matching products is depicted. Matching such as this may be important for a variety of reasons including the fact that while most retailers wish to include such user generated content on their sites they do not wish to perform additional integration with respect to those sites . Additionally different identifiers may be utilized for the same product by manufacturers and each of retailers . Specifically in many cases retailers and manufacturers may refer to products differently for example different UPCs different SKUs etc. . Thus in one embodiment mappings may be established between products for sale at retailers and products offered by manufacturers . These mappings may comprise association between one or more product identifiers for products offered by manufacturers and one or more product identifiers for products for sale at retailers .

Thus one embodiment of a matching method may use a tiered set of matching criteria where if any of the matching criteria matches the match is considered successful. If the match is successful a mapping between product identifiers i.e. any data which may be used to identify a product for the product used by the manufacturer and the retailer may be established. As identifiers may change or new products added this matching process may occur at certain regular time intervals. Thus such identifier changes or product additions may be accounted for in a relatively seamless manner.

First at step product data corresponding to a product offered by a manufacturer along with product data corresponding to products offered by a retailer where it is desired to match the product offered by the manufacturer to a particular product offered by the retailer . At step if provided a product dictionary is consulted in order to determine if there is a match. This method is useful when it is possible to perform the matching work offline via automated or manual methods. At step if provided a specified cooperative matching key will be utilized. This key is mutually agreed upon by both operators of retailer and manufacturer as referring to the same item in data associated with the user generated content or product offered by the retailer . At step the product UPC will be used for matching if both operators of retailer and manufacturer provide a valid UPC to operators of content distribution system . At step the product EAN will be used for matching if both operators of retailer and manufacturer provide a valid EAN to operators of content distribution system . The product ISBN may also be used for matching if both operators of retailer and manufacturer provide a valid ISBN to operators of content distribution system . At step the product brand and manufacturer part number will be used for matching if both syndication partners provide a valid brand and manufacturer part number. In this case both brand and manufacturer part number may have to match to establish a mapping.

If there are no matches using these criteria manual matching may be performed at step where a human may evaluate each of the respective products to determine if two products should be associated with one another through a mapping. This manual matching may result in a determination that there is no match between two candidate products at step or a successful match.

It should be noted that the matching criteria listed above are exemplary only and that any desired criteria for matching user generated content to a product may be utilized. For example additional criteria may include other alpha numeric product identifiers the comparison of which may or may not be case sensitive or manual matching between the user generated content and a product. Additionally any combination of matching criteria may be utilized along with weighting functions confidence levels etc. and that such matching may encompass one manufacture product to many retailer products many manufacturer products to one retailer product one manufacturer product to one retailer product etc.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of invention.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any component s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential feature or component of any or all the claims.

