---

title: Power management control of remote servers
abstract: Servers, storage medium and methods associated with control of power management services of remote servers of a remote computing service are disclosed herein. In embodiments, a storage medium may have instructions to enable a local server to query a remote computing service having one or more remote servers. The instructions may enable the local server to receive a record from the remote computing service in response to the query. The record may include information related to power management services available from the one or more remote servers. The instructions may enable the local server to transmit power management commands, based on the information, to the remote computing service to at least partially control power consumption by the one or more remote servers. Other embodiments may be disclosed or claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454199&OS=09454199&RS=09454199
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09454199
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120628
---
This application relates to the technical field of data processing more specifically to methods and apparatuses associated with remote control of power management of remote computing servers.

The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally presenting the context of the disclosure. Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Large information technology IT applications may encompass hundreds of servers in data centers with an annual electricity bill in the order of hundreds of thousands of dollars. Because it is difficult to know server power consumption in advance servers at data centers are usually deployed with an over commitment of power and customers of the data centers often pay the power bill of the over commitment. The Uptime Institute calculates that the starting data center capital cost for each installed kilowatt is about 10 thousand dollars and without special measures that s just enough to power two servers.

Various aspects of the illustrative embodiments will be described using terms commonly employed by those skilled in the art to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that alternate embodiments may be practiced with only some of the described aspects. For purposes of explanation specific numbers materials and configurations are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the illustrative embodiments. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that alternate embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. In other instances well known features are omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the illustrative embodiments.

Various operations will be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the illustrative embodiments however the order of description should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. In particular these operations need not be performed in the order of presentation. Further descriptions of operations as separate operations should not be construed as requiring that the operations be necessarily performed independently and or by separate entities. Descriptions of entities and or modules as separate modules should likewise not be construed as requiring that the modules be separate and or perform separate operations. In various embodiments illustrated and or described operations entities data and or modules may be merged broken into further sub parts and or omitted.

The phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment is used repeatedly. The phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. The terms comprising having and including are synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise. The phrase A B means A or B . The phrase A and or B means A B or A and B . The phrase at least one of A B and C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C .

Processor may be configured to execute one or more instructions stored on storage . For example processor may be configured to execute instructions that enable cloud customer server to determine and or change a power management policy of other servers . Processor may be any one of a number of single or multi core processors known in the art e.g. those available from Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif.

Storage may be volatile memory non volatile memory or include both volatile and non volatile memory. For example storage may include random access memory RAM flash memory optical disk memory magnetic field based memory hard disk drives or the like. As discussed above storage may be configured to store a plurality of instructions which in response to execution by processor may enable cloud customer server to detect determine request and or adjust one or more power management policies.

Peripheral interface may include but is not limited to universal serial bus USB ports PS 2 ports interfaces to interact with display devices wireless devices and or other types of potential user and or electronics interfaces.

Network interface may be configured to selectively connect cloud customer server to other servers and to network s . Network interface may include but is not limited to a wireless local area network interface. An example of a wireless local area network interface may be a WiFi interface in compliance with one of the IEEE 802.11 standards. IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers. In alternate embodiments network interface may include a wireless personal network interface. An example of a wireless personal network interface may be a Bluetooth interface. In still other embodiments network interface may include a wireless wide area network. An example of a wireless wide area network interface may be a 3G or 4G telecommunication interface. 3G and 4G refer to the 3and 4Generation of Mobile Telecommunication Standards as defined by International Telecommunication Union. 

Cloud data center may be a data center arranged to store and or operate a plurality of servers configured to provide cloud services to customers such as to cloud customer data center . Cloud data center may include cloud management server cloud servers and a variety of facility services to provide power heating and cooling services to the cloud management server and cloud servers . In a typical cloud data center arrangement a customer of the services provided by cloud data center may be charged for services based in part on the amount of power consumed by each cloud server based on the amount of power used to climate control cloud data center as well as based on the number of cloud servers for which technical support is provided through the cloud data center . Cloud data centers may for various security reasons block customers and or other users from accessing certain types of information from cloud servers and may block computer systems that are remote to cloud data center from manipulating cloud servers . As a result cloud data center may operate cloud servers so that cloud servers provide as much bandwidth as cloud servers may provide without concerns for energy efficient usage or operation of cloud servers . Thus clients of services provided by cloud data center may be paying for energy costs that may be may be decreased by selective modification to the power policies of cloud servers .

Cloud management server may be configured to query cloud servers to determine whether each of cloud servers provide or may provide power management services. With reference to cloud customer server cloud management server may be a remote server configured to provide support for or to provide one or more remote computing services e.g. cloud services. Cloud management server may be configured to query each of cloud servers and compile a list or a record based on the responses from cloud servers . The record created by cloud management server may include a variety of data. For example the record may include a list of ones of the cloud servers enabled to provide power management services or capabilities. The record may also include handle identifiers such as Internet protocol IP addresses and may provide application programming interface API calls which may be used to manipulate power management policies of those of cloud servers that are enabled to provide power management services. Service metadata may be information about the capabilities of a service. The record may provide information about the power management services of the cloud servers and may therefore be a service metadata record or a metadata record.

Cloud management server may include a processor or processor core s storage peripheral interface and or network interface .

Processor may be configured to retrieve information from cloud servers and compile create a record based on the retrieved information by executing one or more instructions stored on storage . Similar to processor processor may be any one of a number of single or multi core processors.

Storage may be volatile memory non volatile memory and or a combination of volatile memory and non volatile memory. Storage may store a plurality of instructions which when executed may cause processor to gather information from cloud servers and communicate the gathered information to cloud customer server through network s . The instructions will be discussed further in connection with according to various embodiments.

Peripheral interface may enable a variety of user interfaces such as mice keyboards monitors and or audio commands. For example peripheral interface may enable USB ports PS 2 ports Firewire ports Bluetooth and a like according to various embodiments.

Network interface may be coupled to cloud servers and to network s through a network connection . Network interface may be a wireless local area network interface such as a WiFi interface in compliance with one of the IEEE 802.11 standards. In alternate embodiments network interface may include but is not limited to a wireless personal network interface such as a Bluetooth interface. Network interface may include a wireless wide area network interface such as 3G or 4G telecommunication interface.

Cloud servers may be configured to provide a variety of cloud based services. According to embodiments from the perspective of cloud customer server cloud servers may be one or more remote servers configured to support or provide one or more remote computing services e.g. cloud based services. Cloud servers may provide cloud based services to users outside of cloud data center based on instructions commands and or security policies received from cloud management server according to embodiments of the disclosure. According to embodiments cloud servers may represent servers associated with a broad range of search engine social networking and or e commerce websites. Example of such websites may include but are not limited to Google Facebook and Amazon . While cloud customer data center may be the headquarters or the owner of the cloud based websites actual operation of servers that host the websites may have been outsourced to an owner and or operator of cloud data center . According to various embodiments cloud servers may be configured to receive power management commands from cloud customer server to reduce overall power consumption of cloud servers in order to reduce operating costs.

Cloud servers may include a network interface . Network interface may be similar to network interface and network interface . Network interface may enable cloud servers to receive instructions and or commands from cloud management server and may enable cloud servers to provide power management based information or capabilities to cloud management server . Network interface may also enable cloud servers to respond to queries and or commands received from cloud customer server . Cloud servers may also include storage processor power supply and a power management controller .

Power management controller may be configured to monitor power consumption of one or more of storage processor and or power supply . Power management controller may determine power consumption based on voltage sensors current sensors temperature sensors and or other sensors of the like located proximate to each of storage processor and or power supply . Power management controller may be configured to be responsive to instructions received from network interface . For example power management controller may provide network interface with data that may be indicative of power management services available through power management controller . According to other embodiments power management controller may be enabled to cause one or more of cloud servers to enter a low power mode to hibernate and or to power down. According to embodiments even while cloud server is powered down external computing devices such as cloud management server and or cloud customer server may be enabled to access power management controller through network interface .

Storage may include but is not limited to non volatile memory and or volatile memory. Storage may include a variety of instructions which when executed by processor may cause and or enable processor to provide cloud services to one or more users of network s .

Power supply may provide power to each of the variety of components included in each of cloud servers .

Network s are intended to represent a broad range of wired or wireless local or wide area networks private or public including e.g. the Internet.

At block cloud management server may create a record that includes power management services that are available from each of cloud servers . Cloud management server may include additional information in the record. For example cloud management server may include IP addresses associated with each of cloud servers . More particularly the IP addresses may provide access to power management controllers that may be included in the cloud servers . Cloud management server may create the record to include other information such as passwords other handles to access cloud servers and or API calls to enable cloud customer server to manipulate power management services of cloud servers .

At block cloud management server may provide the record to cloud customer server in response to the query of block . Cloud management server may encrypt the record prior to transmission to cloud customer server for example by using public key infrastructure PKI certificates. Alternatively or additionally cloud management server may create a message authentication code MAC based on a hash function to be transmitted with the record to enable cloud customer server to authenticate that the record has not been altered during transmission through network .

At block cloud customer server may parse the record to discover which if any power management services are available on cloud servers which may be hosting the cloud service that the customer may be subscribed to. From the record cloud customer server may also determine or retrieve handle identifiers e.g. IP addresses of the power management enabled cloud servers . Before parsing cloud customer server may authenticate at least part of the information included in the record. At block cloud customer server may query cloud servers to determine power consumption status of components such as processors memory and power supplies. Cloud customer server may initiate the query based on handle identifiers IP addresses and or other information included in the record. At block power management controllers and or processors of cloud servers may reply to the query with power consumption data or status. Power consumption data may include indication of the load of each of the processors of cloud servers to enable cloud customer server to determine if one or more cloud servers may be powered down without loss of quality of service. At block cloud customer server may transmit power management commands to cloud servers based on the power consumption status es received. For example cloud customer server may transmit power management commands to cause cloud servers to hibernate enter standby enter another low power mode power down or issue power limitation commands. In addition to power management commands cloud customer server may also reconfigure one or more cloud servers to include cloud servers within the same subnetwork subnet as servers . By including cloud servers within the same subnet as servers cloud customer server may include the outsourced servers as part of a single trusted pool and may extend the enterprise perimeter to increase the size of the trusted compute base of cloud customer server .

Alternatively at block cloud customer server may be configured to query cloud management server and cloud management server may directly query cloud servers . Additionally at block cloud customer server may transmit power management commands to cloud servers through cloud management server . According to various embodiments cloud servers may be configured to reply directly to cloud customer server via network s or cloud servers may be configured to reply to cloud customer server through cloud management server .

Upon receipt of the record from cloud management server cloud customer server may be enabled to further manipulate cloud servers . For example by using information from the record cloud customer server may transplant or install code onto cloud servers . According to various embodiments the code may enable cloud customer server cloud management server and or other computing devices to determine which power management services are available from cloud servers . Similar to transmission of the record transplanted or installed code may be encrypted or be subject to an attestation scheme to ensure that the code has not been tampered with in transit.

According to various embodiments cloud customer server may receive power management policies from an administrative management computing device that is remote to both cloud customer data center and cloud data center .

While cloud servers may provide power management service information at lower levels of the open systems interconnect OSI stack e.g. network or physical layers to enable searchability of the service various programs of cloud servers may suppress or hide the availability of power management services for security purposes according to various embodiments.

Various embodiments may include at least one computer readable medium having a number of instructions stored therein and configured to enable a local server in response to execution by one or more processors of the local server to query a remote computing service having one or more remote servers and receive a record from the remote computing service in response to the query. The record may include information related to power management services available from the one or more remote servers. The instructions may enable the one or more processors to transmit power management commands based on the information to the remote computing service to at least partially control power consumption by the one or more remote servers. The information related to the record may include handle identifiers of the power management services or application programming interface API calls for the power management services.

According to embodiments the instructions may be further configured to enable the local server in response to execution by the one or more processors of the local server to transmit the power management commands using the API calls for the power management services and the handle identifiers to reduce central processing unit CPU power consumption of the one or more remote servers.

According to embodiments the instructions may be further configured to enable the local server in response to execution by the one or more processors of the local server to transmit the power management commands using the API calls for the power management services to the remote computing service to receive power consumption data of the one or more remote servers. The power consumption data may indicate a quantity of power consumed by each of the one or more remote servers.

According to embodiments the instructions may be further configured to enable the local server in response to execution by the one or more processors of the local server to transmit the power management commands to the remote computing service to cause selected ones of the one or more remote servers to enter into at least one of a low power mode or a power down mode based on the power consumption data of the one or more remote servers. The power consumption data may include power supply data memory data and processor data.

According to embodiments the instructions may be further configured to enable the local server in response to execution by the one or more processors of the local server to determine from the record which ones of the one or more remote servers are enabled to be remotely power managed and configure the remote power manage enabled ones of the one or more remote servers to a subnet shared by the local server to enable power management of the remote power manage enabled ones of the one or more remote servers by the local server.

The instructions may be further configured to enable the local server in response to execution by the one or more processors of the local server to authenticate at least part of the information included in the record.

According to various embodiments a method may include querying a remote computing service by a customer server having one or more remote servers. The method may include receiving a record by the customer server from the remote computing service in response to the query. The record may include information related to power management services available from the one or more remote servers. The method may include transmitting power management commands based on the information to the remote computing service to at least partially control power consumption by the one or more remote servers.

According to various embodiments a method may include receiving a request by a remote computing management server from a customer server for a record of power management services available by a number of remote computing servers that are networked to provide remote computing services and that are managed by the remote computing management server. The method may include determining by the remote computing management server ones of the number of remote computing servers that provide the power management services and creating by the remote computing management server the record of the power management services based on said determining. The method may include transmitting the record of the power management services to the customer server in response the request for the record to enable the customer server to access the power management services provided by the ones of the number of remote computing servers. The record may include internet protocol IP addresses of power management controllers of each of the ones of the one or more remote computing servers that provide the power management services. The record may include power management service application programming interface API calls to enable manipulation of the power management controllers.

According to embodiments the method may also include receiving by the remote computing management server instructions from the customer server to transmit data related to power consumed by each of the ones of the one or more remote computing servers that provide the power management services and transmitting to the customer server the data related to the power consumed by each of the one or more remote computing servers.

According to embodiments the method may further include in response to instructions from the customer server transferring tasks from first partially loaded ones of the one or more remote computing servers that provide the power management services to second partially loaded ones of the one or more remote computing servers that provide power management service and causing the first partially loaded ones of the one or more remote computing servers to power down or to enter a low power mode.

According to embodiments the method may further include receiving by the one or more remote computing servers one or more programs from the customer server installing the one or more programs onto the one or more remote computing servers and enabling control of the one or more remote computing servers by the customer server through the one or more programs.

According to embodiments the method may further include generating a message authentication code from the record and transmitting the message authentication code with the record to the remote server in response to the request to enable the remote server to verify the authenticity of the record.

According to various embodiments one or more computer readable media may include a number of instructions which if executed by a processor of a customer server may enable a customer server to operate according to the above described method.

According to various embodiments a server may include a network interface configured to communicate with a remote computing service through a remote computing management server memory coupled to the network interface and configured to store a number of instructions and a processor coupled to the memory and the network interface. The processor may be configured to execute the number of instructions to send a request via the network interface to the remote computing management server to receive a record of remote computing servers that are managed by the remote computing management server to provide remote computing service for the server and that include power management controllers. The record may include handles that identify respective ones of the power management controllers. The processor may be further configured to execute the number of instructions to monitor power consumption of the remote computing servers and to selectively cause some of the remote computing servers by using the handles to enter a low power mode based on the monitored power consumption. The processor may be configured to execute the number of instructions to authenticate that the record is unchanged upon receipt by the server.

According to various embodiments a remote computing server may include a power supply memory coupled to the power supply to receive power and to store a number of instructions and one or more processors coupled to the power supply to receive power and coupled to the memory to execute the number of instructions stored by the memory. The remote computing server may include a number of power consumption meters configured to measure power consumption of the power supply the memory and the one or more processors. The remote computing server may include a power management controller configured to collect data corresponding to the measured power consumption and configured to reduce the power consumption of the one or more processors in response to instructions received by a customer server subscribed to receive remote computing services from the remote computing server. The instructions may be based on power management application programming interface API calls made with a handle for the remote computing server. The handle may be managed by a remote computing management server. The remote computing server may include a network interface configured to transfer data between the processor the power management controller and a network. The power management controller may be configured to be responsive to the instructions while the remote computing server is powered down or in a low power mode. The power management controller may be configured to provide a list of power management services available by the remote computing server in response to a power management service query from the remote computing management server to enable the remote computing management server to create a record that includes the list of power management services.

According to various embodiments a remote computing management server may include a network interface configured to communicatively couple the remote computing management server to one or more remote computing servers and memory configured to store a number of instructions for transferring information to and from the one or more remote computing servers. The remote computing management server may include one or more processors configured to execute the number of instructions to support or provide remote computing services. The one or more processors may be configured to execute the number of instructions to create a record that includes power management services provided by the one or more remote computing servers in response to a query from a customer server that receives the remote computing services. The one or more processors may be configured to create the record to include one or more network identifiers of the one or more remote computing servers that provide power management services. The one or more processors may be configured to execute the number of instructions to generate a security code based on the record and to transmit the security code with the record to the customer server to enable the customer server to authenticate the record.

According to various embodiments at least one computer readable medium may have a number of instructions stored therein and configured to enable a remote computing server in response to execution by one or more processors of the remote computing server to provide remote computing services to one or more customer servers and to determine whether the remote computing server is configured to provide remote power management services. The number of instructions may enable the remote computer server to reply to a query from a managing server that is configured manage the remote computer server and other remote computing server. Replying to the query may include indicating which if any power management services the remote computing server is configured to provide. The number of instructions may enable the remote computer server to in response to power management commands received from at least one of the one or more customer servers decrease power consumption by the remote computing server.

In embodiments the instructions may be further configured to enable the one or more processors of the remote computing server to monitor a power consumption of a power supply of the remote computer server monitor a power consumption of the one or more processors and transmit the power consumption of the power supply and the power consumption of the one or more processors to the at least one of the one or more customer servers. In embodiments decreasing power consumption may include causing the remote computing server to enter a shut down sequence.

According to various embodiments a method may include providing remote computing services to one or more customer servers and determining whether the remote computing server is configured to provide remote power management services. The method may include replying to a query from a managing server that is configured manage the remote computer server and other remote computing server wherein replying to the query includes indicating which if any power management services the remote computing server is configured to provide and in response to power management commands received from at least one of the one or more customer servers decrease power consumption by the remote computing server.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent implementations may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope of the embodiments of the present disclosure. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that the embodiments of the present disclosure be limited only by the claims.

