---

title: Distribution of electronic game elements
abstract: A system, method, and computer-readable storage medium for using electronic advertising resources as mechanisms to enable individuals to participate in electronic games alone or in conjunction with other players.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09186587&OS=09186587&RS=09186587
owner: 
number: 09186587
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20121004
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 764 906 filed Apr. 21 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 61 172 222 filed Apr. 24 2009 and provisional application No. 61 257 837 filed Nov. 3 2009 this application also claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 543 314 filed Oct. 5 2011. Each of these applications is incorporated by reference herein in their entireties for all purposes.

The present invention generally pertains to distributing electronic game elements throughout an electronic network such as the Internet.

Videos games are a popular form of entertainment and players of all ages are intrigued and entertained by the challenges they present. There are various kinds of video game systems often referred to as platforms. Videos games may be played upon a specific video game device referred to as a game console that is connected to a television or other monitor to enable game play. The Microsoft Xbox 360 the Sony PlayStation 3 and the Nintendo Wii are popular game consoles. Additionally portable video game systems such as the Nintendo DS and the Sony PSP enable mobile play. These small all in one devices allow an individuals to play wherever they choose. Video games may also be played on more general purpose devices such as personal computers including desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers etc. A video game may be software installed onto the personal computer i.e. either from a disk or from a downloaded file or may be played via a web browser accessing the Internet. For example a user may play a game installed on his computer play one on a game Web site such as PopCap.com or play a game offered through a social networking site such as Farmville on Facebook. Additionally videos games may be played on mobile devices such as cell phones and smartphones. Such games may be played via a the mobile device s web browser or more typically via a mobile software application i.e. an app . As a mobile devices have become ubiquitous mobile app games reach a broad audience of players and are some of the most popular video games e.g. Angry Birds by Rovio Entertainment .

All of the aforementioned video game systems involve the user setting aside time to play. An individual must either activate the game on his game console or other device or must access a particular Web site perhaps needing to login as well . None of these systems allow a user to play an electronic game as a quick interruption to another task. For example although a person may view an electronic ad for a video game as he browses the Internet he must stop his current browsing to play the video game if he so desires. Although this may be tempting the user may not wish to be overly diverted from the task at hand.

Advertising on the Internet involves placing an electronic advertisement herein referred to as an electronic ad on a Web page or along with other digital content in the hope that a consumer will see it. Advertising on the Internet involves an enormous market that has been growing steadily since 1995. Massive sums of money have been spent on advertising on the Internet including tracking the performance of electronic ads and targeting advertisements to particular audiences using technologies referred to as targeting technologies. Yet of all electronic ads distributed on Web sites only a very small fraction is clicked. Ad space providers and advertisers have perpetually grappled with the problem of low response rates.

An electronic ad includes electronic advertising content and this content is distinct from other forms of electronic content distributed via the Internet. Electronic advertising content is created by a commercial entity in order to drive usage and or sales of a good or service herein collectively referred to as product. It is not merely content associated with a product but rather is distributed specifically to generate a benefit typically a monetary one for the producer or supplier of the product. For example an independent review of a product is not electronic advertising content whereas advertising text distributed by the product manufacturer is electronic advertising content. Additionally electronic advertising content is subject to advertising laws and regulations such as truth in advertising laws.

An electronic ad may be created so that its distribution may be tracked and evaluated. For example an electronic ad may include computer code that enables an advertiser to ascertain how many times it has been viewed e.g. how many impressions or clicks . Electronic ad tracking may be conducted for financial purposes. For example an ad provider may charge for ad distribution on a per viewing basis. An advertiser may be responsible for paying the ad provider each time the ad is viewed or fee for a particular amount of viewings.

Generally electronic advertising works in the following way a Web site publisher designates space on its Web site as available for advertising. An ad provider provides the publisher with a computer code to be implanted in this ad space. An ad provider is an entity that distributes electronic ads via a network e.g. the Internet on behalf of an advertiser usually for a fee such as Google AdSense Yahoo etc. An advertiser is an entity wishing to promote a good service etc. When an individual visits a particular page of that publisher s Web site via his web browser the page is generated per the publisher s source code while the electronic ad is generated in the ad space per the ad provider s code. The electronic advertising content is retrieved from the ad provider s ad server system and fills the ad space on the Web page. The ad server system maintains electronic advertising content typically configured by the ad provider on behalf of an advertiser. Each time a visitor visits a Web page a new set of electronic ads may be displayed because the site publisher may have business relationships with more than one ad provider or because the same ad provider may choose a different set of electronic ads to show on the Web page. Furthermore the electronic ad code itself may specify various ads to be shown in the ad space and the ad displayed may vary per the user s particular visit to the Web page. A user may select an electronic ad such as by clicking it and his web browser typically is directed to present a landing page associated with the advertiser. The landing page is typically the advertiser s main Web page. For example a user selecting an electronic ad for a dating service will be presented with the dating service s home page. When a user clicks on an electronic ad his attention to his previous task is interrupted. With the browser navigating to the ad s landing page the user s attention is diverted.

Because selecting electronic ads interrupts the user s current activity users tend to ignore them. Advertisers try to counteract this tendency by employing various targeting methods. An advertiser may place electronic ads on Web pages that are related to the product advertised. More sophisticated electronic advertising methods such as Google AdSense involve embedding a code that may interpret the content of the Web page and retrieve associated electronic advertising content from the ad server system. For example if the Web page content includes gaming related terms e.g. game player etc. the code may cause the presentation of an electronic ad for a video game system. Even though the electronic ad displayed may be relevant to a user s interests the user is still required to stop what he is currently doing to interact with it. The fact that the electronic ad is related to his interests may not be sufficient enticement for him to do so.

Because most users ignore electronic ads a tremendous amount of assets such as bandwidth screen space e.g. Web page real estate are in effect wasted. Significant electronic and human resources are involved in the distribution and tracking of electronic ads but for marginal gain.

What is needed is a mechanism to employ the resources of an electronic network such as the Internet in a more effective manner. In particular what is needed is system and method for using resources generally employed for electronic advertising as a convenient and effective medium by which to enable electronic game play. Furthermore such a medium may improve advertising response rates by providing a user with motivation to interact with an electronic ad.

The present invention addresses the aforementioned needs by providing a system method and computer readable storage medium for using electronic advertising resources as mechanisms to enable individuals to participate in electronic games with themselves or in conjunction with other players.

Various embodiments of the invention are discussed in detail below. While specific implementations are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person with ordinary skill in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The present invention is described herein mainly in terms of an individual accessing the Internet such as via a personal computer e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a mobile phone a multipurpose mobile device e.g. a smartphone a personal electronic assistant an iPod etc. . This is not to be construed as limiting as the present invention may be applicable to any electronic network accessible to a user via a network appropriate device. For example the present invention may be applied to broadcast networks e.g. cable satellite etc. mobile networks interactive television systems kiosk systems and any technologies that enable the electronic distribution of content.

As illustrated by the present invention pertains to advertisement game network AGN . Although only a single instance of each component is depicted this is for illustrative purposes only and is not to be construed as limiting. Furthermore although each component is depicted and described herein as separate this is not to be construed as limiting and components may be combined per implementation. For example ad server system and game server system may be combined into one component and or be maintained by the same entity or affiliated entities. For example AGN may interact with several disparate ad server systems such as servers run by Google Yahoo Microsoft and AOL. The components of the system may interact with one another via network which may be an applicable electronic network such as the Internet or a mobile network.

Access mechanism be a device that may access network . For example access mechanism may be a personal computer e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a mobile phone a multipurpose mobile device e.g. a smartphone a personal electronic assistant an iPod etc. a television a kiosk an electronic sign or digital billboard etc. Access mechanism may include software hardware or a combination thereof configured to enable the viewing and the inputting of information by the user. For example access mechanism may include a web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox or a mobile app such as a specialized app or browsing app. AGN may be accessible via various embodiments of access mechanism such as those specific to particular types of devices and a user may employ any combination of these devices. For example a user may begin participating in an ad game via a mobile phone and later continue via a television. In one scenario a software application may ease use of AGS . A web browser add on a Web service a mobile app installed software etc. may enable functionality that eases authentication and game play. The software application may enable cloud based computing. For example the software application may synchronize with data stored in a user account. The software application may store a user s credentials and preference information thereby enabling automatic user authentication and seamless interaction with game server system . For example the software application may provide user credentials to game server system authentication service system or social networking service system .

Ad server system may be maintained by an ad entity which may be an organization or individual that distributes electronic ads. An ad entity may be an ad provider e.g. Google AdSense an advertising agency an individual advertiser a newspaper e.g. with classified ads etc. Ad server system may maintain ad data which may include any data relevant to an electronic ad such as electronic advertising content. Ad manager may enable the transmission and retrieval of data within ad server system and may also enable ad server system to interact with external mechanisms. The term electronic ad is not to be construed as limiting and may pertain to electronic data associated with an advertisement in various forms as would be appropriate to the related system component. For example in relation to a server or a Web service an electronic ad may pertain to a data record and or computer code. In relation to access mechanism an electronic ad may pertain to a visual representation of an advertisement along with other data such as a link. An electronic ad may include a video an image textual data and or any other advertising medium. An electronic ad may include data indicative of a particular item for sale such as an item offered at eBay.com Amazon.com etc.

Game server system may enable an individual to participate in an ad game via network . Game server system may store game data necessary for game play. For example game data may include graphical data such as Flash files image files game code etc. Game server system may store user data . User data may include user account information including a user s status in a particular game a history of a user s play user identification data including a user identifier as described below access mechanism identifiers etc. Game manager may manage the transmission and retrieval of data within game server system and may also enable game server system to interact with external mechanisms. Additionally game server system may include a game creation mechanism to enable game designers to create games to be played via game server system . Game creation mechanism may produce an AGN code that may be included in an application such as a Web page to enable the application for game play as described in further detail below. The term application as used hereon may include any electronic medium capable of displaying electronic data such as an electronic ad or game element. For example an application may be a Web page a video game a mobile app a digital sign an electronic billboard etc. Although the present invention is described primarily herein in terms of the distribution of game elements via an ad space included in a Web page this is not to be construed as limiting. It is to be understood that the concepts described herein may be applicable to any mechanisms or mediums involving the distribution of electronic content.

Digital provider system may maintain any data necessary for the display of an application. In one example embodiment digital provider system may be a publisher Web server system maintaining any data necessary for the display of a Web page. In another example embodiment digital provider system may be a mobile app server system maintaining any data necessary for display and use of a mobile app. For example as a user browses the Internet via access mechanism access mechanism may interact with digital provider system to obtain Web content to display to the user. Digital provider system may be maintained by a digital provider which may be any entity that employs electronic channels e.g. Web sites electronic games mobile apps etc . to distribute content. For example a digital provider may be a newspaper a blogger a retailer an ad entity a Web publisher a mobile app service provider etc. Social networking service system may include a server configured to enable social networking such as Facebook Twitter Google MySpace etc. Social networking service system may be considered a particular embodiment of digital provider system and any instance of digital provider system may be also be considered applicable to social networking service system . 

Authentication service system may be a service employed by one or more of the mechanisms of AGN to enable the authentication of a user. Authentication service system may authenticate users on behalf of game server system rather than game server system itself. As mentioned game server system may interact with social networking service system . Social networking service system may handle user authentication instead of or in addition to game server system or authentication service system . In one embodiment game server system interfaces with Facebook Google and or other similar services such that for the majority of users for the majority of the time no prompting of user credentials is necessary when the user is already logged into one of those other services using access mechanism . For example authentication service system may enable a user to login to an account maintained by game server system or digital provider system . In some scenarios authentication service system may be incorporated in other system mechanisms. For example authentication service system may include a service such as oAuth and OpenID.

An AGN code may be a computer code such as JavaScript code HTML including HTML5 or similar medium that causes communication of an instruction to retrieve game element data. The AGN code may cause communication of the instruction directly to game server system or may cause the game server to be accessed by way of an ad server. The AGN code optionally also enables a user to participate in an ad game via access mechanism . When an application e.g. Web page is enabled with an AGN code the AGN code may direct digital provider system to interact with game server system either directly or via ad server system to retrieve and distribute one or more game elements to the user thereby enabling ad game play. To participate in AGN a digital provider such as a Web publisher may embed an AGN code within a designated area of an application such as an ad space. For example a Web publisher may place an AGN code in an ad space. The digital provider may embed the AGN code with an ad code received from an ad entity. On its own the ad code may direct digital provider system to retrieve an electronic ad from ad server system for distribution to a user via access mechanism . In one scenario an ad entity may provide the digital provider with an ad code that already includes an AGN code. In an alternate embodiment a digital provider may include an AGN code in an application independent of an ad code. For example a Web publisher may include an AGN code in an ad space by itself rather than include the AGN code with an ad code. In one embodiment an AGN code may interact with the associated application to determine its content and the game element retrieved and distributed may be associated with the application content. When included in an application an AGN code may cause communication of an instruction to game server system either directly or via ad server system to retrieve game element data for distribution at via the application. The instruction may include a user identifier identifying a user account.

User data may include user accounts for each user. A user account may include various data associated with the user such as contact information e.g. name email address phone number mailing address etc. a user s status in one or more games a history of a user s game play access mechanism identifiers etc. The user account may also include user identification data such as authentication credentials e.g. login name and password a user identifier etc. A user identifier may be assigned to an individual upon user registration and may be used as a reference to the appropriate user account. The user identifier may be included in an identification token transmitted from game server system to access mechanism . An identification token may be a tracking cookie or another identification medium and may be employed to identify the user or access mechanism as the user navigates the Internet. Access mechanism may store the identification token and or a user identifier thereby enabling the user to be identified by AGN code enabled applications.

Game server system may include a social network mechanism such as an application programming interface API that enables interaction with social networking service system such as Facebook Twitter Google etc. One or more elements of relationship information and user data may be stored in association with a user s social network account in addition to or instead of being associated with a user account at game server system .

As a user interacts via access mechanism with an application provided via digital provider system the user may be presented with one or more ad spaces. If an AGN code is not present in an ad space digital provider system may communicate an instruction to ad server system to retrieve an electronic ad step and distribute it via the ad space step . An ad space identifier may be communicated that indicates an appropriate format for the electronic ad such as the appropriate dimensions colors text size etc. If the ad space has been enabled with an AGN code the digital provider system may determine if access mechanism has an identification token indicating that the user is participating in an ad game step . If access mechanism does not have such an identification token digital provider system may retrieve an electronic ad from ad server system step and distribute it via the ad space step . If an identification token has been stored digital provider system via the AGN code may communicate an instruction to retrieve game element data to game server system and the instruction may include the user identifier included in the identification token step . The instruction may include an ad space identifier that indicates an appropriate format for the game element data such as the appropriate dimensions colors text size etc. The ad space identifier may be necessary to ensure that the retrieved game element data can be displayed properly within the application. Game server system may receive the user identifier step and employ it to identify an appropriate user account step . Game server system may evaluate the user account in regard to which games if any the user is participating in the user s status in a game etc. step . Game server system may determine if there is appropriate game element data to be served based upon this evaluation step . For example a user may be participating in a blackjack game and game server system may determine how many virtual cards have been distributed to the user. Game element data may be determined at random either within the confines of a particular game a user is playing or at random in general. In the aforementioned blackjack game example the game may be designed to distribute a random card corresponding to one of the fifty two cards included in a standard deck of playing cards accounting for previously distributed cards. Alternatively the game element distributed may be completely random. For example game server system may enable users to participate in ten games and may randomly select a game element from any of these ten games to distribute to the user.

If there is no appropriate game element to be served game server system may communicate an indication of this to digital provider system step which may retrieve an electronic ad from ad server system step and distribute it via in the ad space step . If there is appropriate game element data game server system may retrieve any data necessary to distribute the game element such as graphical elements e.g. a flash file image files etc. step and communicate the game element data to the digital provider system step . Game element data may be retrieved from game server system itself e.g. game data or from an external source indicated by the game s designer upon game creation. For example one or more elements of game data may be retrieved from ad server system or another external storage location. Per the received game element data digital provider system may distribute a game element to the user in the AGN enabled ad space step .

The game element distributed enables a user to participate in a game. Although it need not a game element may include one or more piece of electronic advertising content. For example a game element may be sponsored by an ad entity and may include associated advertising. Although the game element may contain advertising content it may also involve enjoyable game play and therefore may entice the user to direct his attention to it rather than the core content of the application. This may provide the associated ad entity with greater results than a typical electronic ad. A complete game may be sponsored by an ad entity and may be part of an advertising campaign. Participating in and or completing a game may enable a user to receive a discount coupon a free sample or another incentive. Games may be aimed at various demographic groups. For example a game may be designed to appeal to book lovers and the object of the game may be to collect classic books for a virtual library. When the library is full the user may receive an reward such as a discount at Amazon or Barnes and Noble.

In another embodiment an AGN code may instruct digital provider system to query ad server system rather than game server system regarding game participation. If access mechanism has an identification token digital provider system may transmit a user identifier included with the identification token to ad server system . Ad server system may maintain a registry of games it offers. If ad server system determines that the received user identifier indicates the user is participating in a game ad server system may transmit the user identifier to game server system . Game server system may attempt to identify the appropriate user record and proceed as previously described. Alternatively as aforementioned ad server system and game server system may be the same system or may be components of the same system and ad server system may be equipped to function as gamer server system . By relaying such data through ad sever ad server system may log which game elements have been viewed via at game server system in addition to recording whether an electronic ad has been viewed. In one embodiment game server system is maintained by an ad entity and or game server system may be a component of ad server system .

In one embodiment game server system need not identify a user in order to enable game participation. This may enable a user whose access mechanism does not have an identification token to play such as a user who has not played before has opted not to install an identification token or has removed e.g. purposely or accidentally deleted the identification token. If an ad space has been enabled with an AGN code digital provider system may contact game server system either directly or via ad server system regardless of whether access mechanism has an identification token. If a user identifier has been obtained game server system may react accordingly. If a user identifier has not been obtained game server system may retrieve a non specific game element and relay the non specific game element to digital provider system for distribution. For example a non specific game element may be a bonus reward applicable to multiple games a playing card a die roll etc.

If the user responds to the distributed game element game server system may initiate an identification procedure such as by prompting the user to create a user account distributing an identification token to be stored by access mechanism etc. In one embodiment a user may be identified solely by an identification token so there may be no need to store personal data in a user account. Once access mechanism has an identification token game server system may identify the user by an anonymous user identifier. An anonymous user identifier may be a unique code or data element that identifies the user but is not be associated with any identifying information. Therefore game server system may recognize that user 452356 is playing a game but there may be no further data indicating who user 452356 is where he is located etc. Game server system may for example track an anonymous user identifier in order to monitor games played game status etc.

Game participants may interact with one another via game server system and or an eternal service such as social networking service system . Users may share virtual game pieces request assistance from other players help another player share scores or game results share rewards etc. A player may be enabled to assist another player with a particular section of a game or obstacle within a game. For example a game element may include a riddle or problem and a player may be enabled to request and receive help i.e. via game server system and or social networking service system from other users participating in the game via AGN . Alternatively or additionally a user may be enabled to prompt unknown users to provide assistance. For example game server system may communicate a post to social networking service system encouraging other social network users to join the game e.g. Dave needs your help Join in on the fun .

Traditionally video games are restricted by the platform on which they are played. For example video games played on game consoles such as the Xbox 360 Nintendo DS Nintendo Wii and PlayStation3 require that the game console or the game cartridge disk contain all the necessary game elements. Conversely AGN may employ the Internet as the game platform enabling the game to be played across multiple virtual locations e.g. Web pages significantly broadening the gaming experience.

AGN may enable games of various kinds An AGN game may involve a user collecting various game pieces with the user winning when he has collected a sufficient amount or appropriate type of game pieces. As another example an AGN game may simulate a board game and a retrieved game element may request a user roll virtual dice to determine how many places his game piece may move. An AGN game may be a puzzle or a challenge to solve such as a virtual jigsaw puzzle or an interactive game level. As another example a user may navigate from one Web page to the next attempting to collect food for a virtual pet. An AGN game may involve fantasy elements and a user may control a hero battling monsters in order to obtain treasure and magical weapons.

AGN may enable games that require instant actions that include interactive elements etc. For example AGN may enable game play akin to Pac Man Tetris a downhill skiing simulator a car racing simulator etc. Conversely AGN may enable games that are slower paced and that involve a user making calculated steps. For example AGN may enable game akin a virtual pet game a board game a role playing game a farming game a card game etc.

A game may be designed to direct the user from one Web page to another. For example a game may be modeled after blackjack and when a user selects a game element distributed via an ad space the game element may direct him to another Web page to receive his card. The process may repeat until the user finishes the game e.g. holds his hand hits twenty one or exceeds twenty one . As another example a user may move a virtual playing piece from one Web page to another collecting items or solving problems as each new game element is distributed. As aforementioned a game element may be distributed at random. For example a game may involve a user collecting points items or other rewards as the user navigates the Web and the amount and frequency that such items are distributed may be randomly determined.

It is to be understood that the aforementioned examples are provided for illustrative purposes solely and are not to be construed as limiting. Any type of game may be designed to be played via AGN .

In addition to interfacing with the components and entities previously described AGN may be configured to interact with an advertisement storage system such as the one described in application Ser. No. 12 764 906 filed Apr. 21 2010 entitled System and Method for Improving E Commerce. This application and any application claiming priority to it is incorporated by reference herein in entirety for all purposes. For example game server system may interact with the personal advertisement storage system server disclosed in the aforementioned application and thereby enable a user to store and share game elements. In one embodiment the game server system and the advertisement storage server may be components of the same system and may be managed by the same service provider.

According to example embodiments of the present invention components of AGN including digital provider system ad server system game server system access mechanism social networking service system and authentication service system may be implemented by various means. Means for implementing the systems mechanisms and modules may include hardware alone or under direction of one or more computer program code instructions program instructions or executable computer readable program code instructions from a computer readable storage medium.

In one example one or more apparatuses may be provided that are configured to function as or otherwise implement the systems mechanisms and modules shown and described herein. Generally an apparatus of exemplary embodiments of the present invention may comprise include or be embodied in one or more fixed or portable computing devices a number of examples of which are provided above. The apparatus may include one or more of each of a number of components such as for example a processor connected to memory.

The processor is generally any piece of hardware that is capable of processing information such as for example data computer readable program code instructions etc. generally computer programs e.g. software firmware etc. and or other suitable electronic information. More particularly for example the processor may be configured to execute computer programs which may be stored onboard the processor or otherwise stored in the memory. The processor may be a number of processors a multi processor core or some other type of processor depending on the particular implementation. In another example the processor may be embodied as or otherwise include one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs etc. Thus although the processor may be capable of executing a computer program to perform one or more functions the processor of various examples may be capable of performing one or more functions without the aid of a computer program.

The memory is generally any piece of hardware that is capable of storing information such as for example data computer programs and or other suitable information. The memory may include volatile memory and or non volatile memory and may be fixed or removable. Examples of suitable memory include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard drive a flash memory a thumb drive an optical disk a magnetic tape or some combination of the above. In various instances the memory may be referred to as a computer readable storage medium which as a non transitory device capable of storing information may be distinguishable from computer readable transmission media such as electronic transitory signals capable of carrying information from one location to another. Computer readable medium as described herein may generally refer to a computer readable storage medium or computer readable transmission medium.

In addition to the memory the processor may also be connected to one or more interfaces for displaying transmitting and or receiving information. The interfaces may include a communications interface and or one or more user interfaces. The communications interface may be configured to transmit and or receive information such as to and or from other apparatus es network s etc. The communications interface may be configured to transmit and or receive information by physical wireline and or wireless communications links.

The user interfaces may include a display and or one or more user input interfaces. The display may be configured to present or otherwise display information to a user suitable examples of which include a liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode display LED plasma display panel PDP etc. The user input interfaces may be wireline or wireless and may be configured to receive information from a user into the apparatus such as for processing storage and or display. Suitable examples of user input interfaces include a microphone image or video capture device keyboard or keypad joystick touch sensitive surface separate from or integrated into a touchscreen etc. The user interfaces may further include one or more interfaces for communicating with peripherals such as printers scanners etc.

As indicated above program code instructions may be stored in memory and executed by a processor to implement functions of the systems mechanisms and modules described herein. As will be appreciated any suitable program code instructions may be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus from a computer readable storage medium to produce a particular machine such that the particular machine becomes a means for implementing the functions specified herein. These program code instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a processor or other programmable apparatus to function in a particular manner to thereby generate a particular machine or particular article of manufacture. The instructions stored in the computer readable storage medium may produce an article of manufacture where the article of manufacture becomes a means for implementing functions described herein. The program code instructions may be retrieved from a computer readable storage medium and loaded into a computer processor or other programmable apparatus to configure the computer processor or other programmable apparatus to execute operations to be performed on or by the computer processor or other programmable apparatus.

Execution of the program code instructions may produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions executed by the computer processor or other programmable apparatus provide operations for implementing functions described herein. Execution of instructions by a processor or storage of instructions in a computer readable storage medium supports combinations of operations for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that one or more functions and combinations of functions may be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems and or processors which perform the specified functions or combinations of special purpose hardware and program code instructions.

These and other aspects of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art by a review of the preceding detailed description. Although a number of salient features of the present invention have been described above the invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced and carried out in various ways that would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art after reading the disclosed invention. Therefore the description should not be considered to be exclusive of these other embodiments. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein are for the purposes of description and should not be regarded as limiting.

