---

title: Chaining connection requests
abstract: In one embodiment, a social networking system, in response to receiving an action request from a user, expands the portion of a social networking web site with which the user interacted to initiate the action request, and populates the expanded portion with object suggestions of the same type as the target object of the action request. In particular embodiments, the object suggestions are based at least in part on the characteristics of the target object of the action request. Such embodiments capitalize on the transitory mood of the user and facilitate and promote the chaining of subsequent action requests.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09177291&OS=09177291&RS=09177291
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09177291
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120111
---
Computer users are able to access and share vast amounts of information through various local and wide area computer networks including proprietary networks as well as public networks such as the Internet. Typically a web browser installed on a user s computing device facilitates access to and interaction with information located at various network servers identified by for example associated uniform resource locators URLs . Conventional approaches to enable sharing of user generated content include various information sharing technologies or platforms such as social networking websites. Such websites may include be linked with or provide a platform for applications enabling users to view profile pages created or customized by other users where visibility and interaction with such profiles by other users is governed by some characteristic set of rules. By way of example a user profile may include such user declared information as contact information background information job career information as well as interests.

A traditional social network is a social structure made of individuals groups entities or organizations generally referred to as nodes which are tied connected by one or more specific types of interdependency. Social network graph analysis views social relationships in terms of network theory consisting of nodes and edges. Nodes are the individual actors within the networks and edges are the relationships between the actors. The resulting graph based structures are often very complex. There can be many kinds of edges between nodes. In its simplest form a social network or social graph is a map of all of the relevant edges between all the nodes being studied.

Particular embodiments relate to a social network environment that includes an infrastructure or platform hereinafter infrastructure and platform may be used interchangeably enabling an integrated social network environment. In the present disclosure the social network environment may be described in terms of a social graph including social graph information. In particular embodiments one or more computing systems of the social network environment implementing the social network environment include store or have access to a data structure that includes social graph information for use in implementing the social network environment described herein. The social network utilizes a social graph that includes nodes representing users and concepts in the social network environment as well as edges that define or represent connections between such nodes. In particular embodiments any object within the social networking system or node within the social graph may be ranked or scored via a recommendation engine that predicts the expected value of the object or node to the user. Particular embodiments relate to presenting objects or nodes to a particular user that maximize the expected value of the entire system.

In particular embodiments the social graph information includes a first set of user nodes that each correspond to a respective user and a second set of concept nodes that each correspond to a respective concept. As used herein a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over such a social network environment. As used herein a concept may refer to virtually anything that a user may declare or otherwise demonstrate an interest in a like towards or a relationship with such as by way of example a sport a sports team a genre of music a musical composer a hobby a business enterprise an entity a group a third party application a celebrity a person who is not a registered user etc. In particular embodiments each node has represents or is represented by a corresponding web page profile page hosted or accessible in the social network environment. In particular embodiments the social graph information further includes a plurality of edges that each define or represent a connection between a corresponding pair of nodes in the social graph.

By way of example a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user can add content make declarations and otherwise express him or herself while a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page hub in which a plurality of users can add content make declarations and express themselves particularly in relation to the concept. For example a place business or brand may be represented on the social graph by a concept node and its corresponding hub page and users may make connections to the concept node via an expression of affinity such as a like commenting on the hub page an expression that the user was physically at the location by checking in and the like. Such connections may be represented in particular embodiments by edges connecting the user node to the concept node. As another example events may be represented by a node on a social graph and users may broadcast their intent to attend the event through an RSVP edge.

In particular embodiments any piece of content on the social networking system may be considered an object or a node in the social graph. For example the individual status updates a member writes or the photos in his or her albums may each be an object in the social graph. In particular embodiments objects in the social graph may be open meaning third party developers may utilize an application programming interface to generate custom object types as well as custom actions that users may perform on the objects in the social graph.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may make object recommendations to users browsing the social networking web site. The social networking system may utilize a real time online learning object recommendation engine to rank particular content objects based on their expected interest level to a particular user and render the most interesting objects to users. The recommendation engine may possess an online learning component that logs whether a user converts or acts upon a particular content object after the initial display or impression and updates the recommendation engine substantially in real time with the conversion or lack thereof.

Various portions of such a social networking platform may be implemented via a hardware architecture or software framework that enables various software components or processes to implement particular embodiments as is described in more detail by way of example and not by way of limitation below. The platform may include one or more hardware or software components one or more of which may be located or embodied in one or more consolidated or distributed computing systems. Additionally as used herein or may imply and as well as or that is or does not necessarily preclude and unless explicitly stated or implicitly implied. As just described in various example embodiments one or more described web pages or web applications are associated with a social network environment or social networking service.

Particular embodiments may operate in or in conjunction with a wide area network environment such as the Internet including multiple network addressable systems. illustrates an example network environment in which various example embodiments may operate. Internet generally represents one or more interconnected networks over which various systems and hosts described herein may communicate. Internet may include packet based wide area networks such as the Internet private networks wireless networks satellite networks cellular networks paging networks and the like. As illustrates particular embodiments may operate in conjunction with a network environment comprising social network system and client devices as well as in some embodiments one or more third party web application servers . Client devices web servers and third party websites may be operably connected to the network environment and Internet via a network service provider a wireless carrier a set of routers or networking switches or any other suitable means.

Each client device may generally be a computer computing system or computing device including functionality for communicating e.g. remotely over a computer network. Client device in particular may be a desktop computer laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA tablet PC in or out of car navigation system smart phone or other cellular or mobile device or mobile gaming device among other suitable computing devices. Client device may execute one or more client applications such as a web browser e.g. Microsoft Windows Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari Google Chrome and Opera etc. to access and view content over a Internet . In particular implementations the client applications allow a user of client device to enter addresses of specific network resources to be retrieved such as resources hosted by social networking system . These addresses can be Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In addition once a page or other resource has been retrieved the client applications may provide access to other pages or records when the user clicks on hyperlinks to other resources. By way of example such hyperlinks may be located within the web pages and provide an automated way for the user to enter the URL of another page and to retrieve that page.

More particularly when a user at a client device desires to view a particular web page hereinafter also referred to as a target structured document hosted by social networking system and made available in conjunction with social networking system the user s web browser or other client side structured document rendering engine or suitable client application formulates and transmits a request to web servers of social networking system . The request generally includes a URL or other document identifier as well as metadata or other information. By way of example the request may include information identifying the user such as a user ID as well as information identifying or characterizing the web browser or operating system running on the user s client computing device . The request may also include location information identifying a geographic location of the user s client device or a logical network location of the user s client device as well as timestamp identifying when the request was transmitted.

In an example implementation when a request for a web page or structured document hosted by social networking system is received by web servers of social networking system one or more page generating processes executing within the social networking system typically generates a base web page in the form of a Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other web browser supported structured document. The generated structured document is then transmitted in a response which may comprise one or more portions or partial responses to the requesting client via a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or other suitable connection for rendering by the web browser at the client device . The structured document may include one or more resources e.g. JavaScript scripts code segments or resources Cascading Style Sheet CSS code segments or resources image data or resources video data or resources etc. or references to such resources embedded within the transmitted document. By way of example a resource embedded in an HTML document may generally be included or specified within a script element image element or object element among others depending on the type of resource. The element referencing or specifying the resource may include a source attribute e.g. src identifying a location of the resource which may be within a server or data store within social networking system or at one or more external locations to the client device requesting the web page. Typically upon receipt of the response the web browser or other client document rendering application running at the client device then constructs a document object model DOM representation of the received structured document and requests the resource s which may be at one or more other external locations embedded in the document.

In an example implementation when a registered user of social networking system first requests a web page from social networking system in a given user session the response transmitted to the user s client device from web servers of social networking system may include a structured document generated by the page generating process for rendering a login page at the client device. The user may then enter his or her user login credentials e.g. user ID and password which are then transmitted from the user s client device to social networking system . Upon successful authentication of the user social networking system may then transmit a response to the user s web browser at the user s client device that includes a structured document generated by the page generating process for rendering a user homepage or user profile page at the user s client device.

In one example embodiment social networking system comprises computing systems that allow users at client devices to communicate or otherwise interact with each other and access content such as user profiles as described herein. Social networking system is a network addressable system that in various example embodiments comprises one or more physical servers as well as one or more data stores. The one or more physical servers are operably connected to Internet via by way of example a set of routers or networking switches. In an example embodiment the functionality hosted by the one or more physical servers may include web or HTTP servers FTP servers as well as without limitation web pages and applications implemented using Common Gateway Interface CGI script PHP Hyper text Preprocessor PHP Active Server Pages ASP Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML Java JavaScript Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX and the like.

The physical servers may host functionality directed to the operations of social networking system . By way of example social networking system may host a website that allows one or more users at one or more client devices to view and post information as well as communicate with one another via the website. Hereinafter the physical servers may be referred to as web server although as just described the servers may include numerous servers hosting for example social networking system as well as other content distribution servers data stores or databases.

The data store may comprise object store which may store content and data relating to and enabling operation of the social network environment as digital data objects including content objects. A data object in a particular implementation is an item of digital information typically stored or embodied in a data file database or record. Content objects may take many forms including text e.g. ASCII SGML HTML images e.g. jpeg tif and gif graphics vector based or bitmap audio video e.g. mpeg or other multimedia and combinations thereof. Content object data may also include executable code objects e.g. games executable within a browser window or frame podcasts etc. Logically object store corresponds to one or more of a variety of separate or integrated databases such as relational databases and object oriented databases that maintain information as an integrated collection of logically related records or files stored on one or more physical systems.

In particular embodiments object store may include a number of databases. For example object store may include user database containing information pertaining to every single user of social networking system . In particular embodiments object store may include places database containing information pertaining to physical locations or businesses represented by concept nodes in social networking system . In particular embodiments users or other node administrators may create event pages for particular real world events users may attend. Information regarding these events may be stored in events database . In particular embodiments media objects such as photos albums videos and the like may be stored in media database . In particular embodiments users may share links to other content hosted on third party websites or external application servers. In particular embodiments each link may be represented by a node on the social graph. In particular embodiments shared links may be stored as objects within share db or alternatively story database . In particular embodiments each concept node may be represented by a hub page and both the nodes and pages may be stored in pages database . In particular embodiments individual advertisements may be treated as objects within social networking system and advertisements may be stored in ad db . In particular embodiments individual newsfeed stories status updates check ins and the like may be stored in story database . Finally custom objects defined by third parties may be stored in other object store . Individual databases may be located on one or more physical servers. In particular embodiments individual databases may be located in a single server. This disclosure contemplates any suitable means of storing objects of social networking system in any physical configuration.

Structurally object store may generally include one or more of a large class of data storage and management systems. In particular embodiments object store may be implemented by any suitable physical system s including components such as one or more database servers mass storage media media library systems storage area networks data storage clouds and the like. In one example embodiment object store includes one or more servers databases e.g. MySQL and or data warehouses.

Object store may include data associated with different social networking system users client devices web servers as well as in particular embodiments data associated with various concepts. As described above particular embodiments relate to a social networking system that includes a platform enabling an integrated social network environment. In the following example embodiments the social network environment may be described or implemented in terms of a social graph including social graph information. In particular embodiments object store includes a the social graph database in which the social graph information for use in implementing the social network environment described herein is stored. In particular embodiments the social graph information stored by social networking system in object store and particularly in the social graph database includes a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges that define connections between corresponding nodes. In particular embodiments the nodes or edges themselves are data objects that include the identifiers attributes and information including the information for their corresponding profile pages for their corresponding users or concepts as described below some of which is actually rendered on corresponding profile or other pages. The nodes may also include pointers or references to other objects data structures or resources for use in rendering content in conjunction with the rendering of the profile pages corresponding to the respective nodes.

Social networking system may include object recommendation engine . Object recommendation engine may determine for any given user and any given object in object store the expected probability that the particular user may find the object engaging. In particular embodiments object recommendation engine utilizes a probabilistic model to calculate an expected value for the user. For further detail on object recommendation engine see commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 313 984 filed on 7 Dec. 2011 and entitled Real Time Online Learning Object Recommendation Engine the contents of which are fully incorporated by reference herein.

As disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 313 984 in particular embodiments object recommendation engine may factor the user s historical engagement with particular object types based on a probabilistic model. However while a logistic regression may accurately model a particular user s predilection for engaging certain social networking objects over the duration of the model it may fail to capture short term trends or bursty behavior. For example a user may be in the mood to perform a particular action or engage with a particular object type for a short period of time but not very frequently over the life of the model. As an example a user may be in the friending mood where he or she is actively searching for other users to add as first degree connections.

As another example a user may be in a mood to subscribe to or follow the public posts of celebrities writers and other public figures. Although adding friends and following public figures comprises an insignificant portion of the user s total actions on social networking system it is advantageous and beneficial to the user for social networking system via object recommendation engine or another application to infer the type of mood the user is in based on his or her actions and provide additional suggestions to the user that further facilitate the mood. Additionally because the user s focus is directed to a particular portion of a website when the user performs a particular action it is advantageous for social networking system to display suggestions to the same area of focus to promote sequential or chaining of actions. Thus in particular embodiments object recommendation engine may expand portions of a social networking web page in response to a particular action associated with the portion and present additional object recommendations to the user based on the nature and type of the previous action to promote successive chaining of actions.

In response to receiving the action request to add a friend from the user social networking system may infer that the user is in a friending mood that the user is actively searching for other users to add as friends or first degree connections. Thus to accommodate the user s inferred friending mood social networking system may present other users to the user that he or she is likely to add as a connection. In particular embodiments this is achieved by expanding the portion associated with the action request or the particular focus area of the web page that the user clicked on or otherwise interacted with to transmit the request. In the example of the user clicked on the add friend link from recommended object in the people you may know section of the right hand column and social networking system transmits an expanded people you may know section to the user containing one or more additional user object suggestions and

In particular embodiments object recommendation engine suggests additional users and based on a number of social factors. In particular embodiments object recommendation engine calculates a social coefficient between the user and each user that may be suggested to the user and presents only those users with the highest social coefficient. The social coefficient may be based on any number of possible demographic factors gleaned from profiles of the user and potential suggestion such as number of mutual friends age geographic area hometown occupation school employer interests gender political views the number of photos or videos the users are tagged in together the number of events the two users have RSVP d to together the number of common check in locations etc. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of calculating a social coefficient between a user and a user to be suggested to the user.

In particular embodiments object recommendation system factors properties of the object which was interacted with by the user to initiate the expansion or chaining operation. For example because the user initiated the expansion of the people you may know section by adding Ma Kahn as a friend object recommendation engine may prioritize the display of friends of Ma Kahn to the user. In particular embodiments users who are friends of Ma Kahn in this example user object John Smith may have their social coefficient more heavily weighted and therefore displayed first to the user. In particular embodiments only after all the friends of Ma Kahn have been displayed to the user are other user object suggestions such as user object Jane Smith are displayed to the user.

In particular embodiments the expanded portion of the web page is unobtrusive and does not otherwise affect the user experience of the requested web page. For example the expanded people you may know section does not obscure any of the main content of the requested web page and is limited to the right hand column. In particular embodiments the expanded portion or section may be a pop up window. In particular embodiments the expanded section may navigate the user to a dedicated page for facilitating chaining of the received action request. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of presenting additional object suggestions to a user in response to a received connection or action request.

In the example of the user clicks friend icon to view his or her pending friend requests and social networking system displays a drop down menu containing one or more friend requests pending the user s approval via web server . Drop down menu may include a friend summary for the user who has requested to become friends with the user. Friend summary contains in particular embodiments the requesting user s name profile picture and number of mutual friends. This disclosure contemplates the display of any social information in friend summary .

Drop down menu may also include for each friend request a selectable user interface element to confirm the friend request a selectable user interface element to reject the request and a selectable user interface element to temporarily postpone any action on the friend request.

In particular embodiments expanded drop down menu may be sized appropriately in order not to obscure other elements of the social networking web page. In particular embodiments expanded drop down menu may be scrollable. In particular embodiments expanded drop down menu may be closed simply by the user clicking on outside of expanded drop down menu . This disclosure contemplates any suitable means of displaying additional user object recommendations or suggestions to the user in response to confirming a friend request.

At Step social networking system transmits the requested page via web server to the user. As previously disclosed any particular requested page may include multiple user selectable elements operable to transmit action or connection requests to social networking system . In particular embodiments icons are present on every requested page. In particular embodiments right hand side including object recommendation suggestion is included in every requested page. This disclosure contemplates any suitable arrangement of object elements in a requested social networking web page.

Regardless of the particular or specific arrangement of elements in the requested page at Step social networking system receives an action request from the user. For example as a result of confirming a friend request requesting to add a friend requesting to follow or subscribe to a public figure to like or fan a page such as a sports team product brand TV show or the like or RSVP to an event. This disclosure contemplates expanding a section and recommending objects in response to receiving any suitable action request.

At Step social networking system performs the requested action. In particular embodiments performing the action comprises drawing appropriate edges between nodes of the social graph. For example when a user requests to subscribe to a public figure social networking system draws a follow or subscription edge between the user node and the node representing the public figure. As another example when a user chooses to like or fan a particular page for example a local business or band social networking system may in particular embodiments draw an edge between the user node and the concept node representing the business or band in the social graph. This disclosure contemplates any suitable means of performing the requested action in Step .

At Step social networking system generates an expanded portion of the requested page and transmits it to the user s client device via web server . In particular embodiments social networking system transmits a markup file representing the entire page including the expanded portion. In particular embodiments social networking system transmits only the expanded portion to the client device. In particular embodiments the portion of the requested page that is expanded corresponds to the area of the requested page with which the user interacted to initiate the action request. For example if the user interacted with the people you may know element on the right hand side of the requested page the people you may know element is expanded. As another example if the user interacted with drop down menu drop down menu is expanded to maintain the user s focus and attention. In particular embodiments the expanded portion is populated with object suggestions by object recommendation engine that re of the same type as the object interacted with to begin the chaining operation. In particular embodiments object recommendation engine generates object recommendations that are related to the object with which the user interacted to initiate the chaining operation.

Similarly if the user requests to subscribe to the public posts of another user such as a celebrity or blogger by submitting a subscribe follow action request at Step social networking system may display an expanded portion including a plurality of other users having public posts that the user may wish to subscribe to or follow in Step . In particular embodiments social networking system suggests people to follow based on the interests of the users. In particular embodiments social networking system biases the suggestions toward users who are similar to the user subscribed to in Step .

As another example when a user submits an action request to like or become a fan of a page at Step social networking system may display a set of page suggestions to the user in an expanded portion in Step . In particular embodiments the suggestions may be biased toward pages that are similar to the page liked or fanned in Step . In particular embodiments the page suggestions may be based on what pages other users who have also liked the page that was liked in Step also like. This disclosure contemplates any suitable means of generating page suggestions.

Finally in particular embodiments where the user transmits an event RSVP in Step social networking system may generate event suggestions for display to the user in Step . In particular embodiments the event suggestions are based on the event RSVP d to in Step . For example social networking system may cross reference the user s friend list with the guest list of the event in order to determine a set of the user s friends who are attending the event search for other events that the same set of users are attending and suggest those events to the user. In particular embodiments social networking system may suggest events that are similar to the event RSVP d to in Step . This disclosure contemplates generating suggestions for any type of received action request and displaying the suggestions in an expanded area of focus associated with the action request or with which the user interacted to generate the action request . This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of generating the suggestions based on the object associated with the initial action request to further facilitate the chaining of subsequent requests.

While the foregoing embodiments may be implemented in a variety of network configurations the following illustrates an example network environment for didactic and not limiting purposes. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. Network environment also includes one or more data storage linked to one or more servers . Particular embodiments may be implemented in network environment . For example social networking system frontend may be written in software programs hosted by one or more servers . For example event database may be stored in one or more storage . In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more servers via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiment each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functions implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

The elements of hardware system are described in greater detail below. In particular network interface provides communication between hardware system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 702.3 network a backplane etc. Mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described functions implemented in the servers whereas system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by processor . I O ports are one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to hardware system .

Hardware system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of hardware system may be rearranged. For example cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively cache and processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core. Furthermore certain embodiments may not require nor include all of the above components. For example the peripheral devices shown coupled to standard I O bus may couple to high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of hardware system being coupled to the single bus. Furthermore hardware system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In one implementation the operations of the embodiments described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by hardware system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. In a particular embodiment a set of software modules and or drivers implements a network communications protocol stack browsing and other computing functions optimization processes and the like. The foregoing functional modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or a combination of both. For example the functional modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as mass storage . However the series of instructions can be tangibly stored on any suitable storage medium such as a diskette CD ROM ROM EEPROM etc. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via network communications interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as mass storage into memory and then accessed and executed by processor .

An operating system manages and controls the operation of hardware system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft r Windows r operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Of course other implementations are possible. For example the nickname generating functions described herein may be implemented in firmware or on an application specific integrated circuit.

Furthermore the above described elements and operations can be comprised of instructions that are stored on storage media. The instructions can be retrieved and executed by a processing system. Some examples of instructions are software program code and firmware. Some examples of storage media are memory devices tape disks integrated circuits and servers. The instructions are operational when executed by the processing system to direct the processing system to operate in accord with the disclosure. The term processing system refers to a single processing device or a group of inter operational processing devices. Some examples of processing devices are integrated circuits and logic circuitry. Those skilled in the art are familiar with instructions computers and storage media.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. By way of example while embodiments have been described as operating in connection with a social networking website the disclosure can be used in connection with any communications facility that supports web applications. Furthermore in some embodiments the term web service and web site may be used interchangeably and additionally may refer to a custom or generalized API on a device such as a mobile device e.g. cellular phone smart phone personal GPS personal digital assistance personal gaming device etc. that makes API calls directly to a server.

