---

title: Method and apparatus for controlling mobile communications access while in motion
abstract: Methods and related systems modify, limit, or restore restrictions imposed on a mobile communications device, due to being in a moving vehicle, upon establishing contact with a near field communications (NFC) tag. Since the imposed modifications may impact all mobile communications devices positioned in the moving vehicle, including those belonging to passengers other than the driver, the NFC tag is used to modify the restriction imposed on the devices belonging to the passengers. The NFC tag triggers activation of instructions that remove the imposed modifications on the mobile communications device and is positioned in close proximity to the passengers such that it is easily accessed by the passengers but may not be easily accessed by the driver. The mobile communications device uses the instructions to remove the imposed modifications and allow the user to access the communications functions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08880125&OS=08880125&RS=08880125
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 08880125
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120614
---
The distractions caused by operating a mobile communications device such as a wireless phone and or a mobile tablet while in a moving vehicle may result in life threatening accidents. For example a driver operating a moving vehicle would need to use one hand to hold his her mobile device and or split his her attention between watching the road and dialing a number or reading a text message or email. In the recent years significant effort has been focused on preventing access to mobile communications devices while operating a motor vehicle.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Certain embodiments disclosed herein relate to methods computer implemented methods and corresponding systems for controlling usage of a mobile communications device while in motion. In some embodiments certain restrictions including but not limited to device restrictions e.g. device software lock restrictions of mobile communications functions or restrictions of access to mobile communications functions may be imposed on the mobile communications device due to being in a moving vehicle.

Instructions for modifying such restrictions may be stored in various locations such as on the mobile communications device of a user riding in the moving vehicle. The user may be a passenger of the moving vehicle. As used herein a passenger is defined to be a person in a vehicle other than the driver.

Regardless of where the instructions for modifying the restrictions are stored these instructions are activated by establishing an interaction between the mobile communications device and a near field communications tag positioned in close vicinity of the passenger of the motor vehicle. The interaction between the mobile communications device and the near field communications tag may be established by bringing the mobile communications device in direct contact with or in close vicinity of the near field communications tag. The instructions for modifying the restrictions are activated e.g. read and executed upon establishing interaction between the mobile communications device and the near field communications tag. Once activated the instructions trigger modification of the restrictions imposed on the mobile communications device.

In some embodiments the restrictions imposed on the mobile communications device may include a software lock that prevents access to the mobile communications device e.g. a lock that prevents access to the home screen of a mobile phone . In certain embodiments the restrictions may include restrictions that restrict e.g. turn off certain communications functions of the mobile communications device while in the moving vehicle. In some embodiments the restrictions may include restrictions that prevent access to the certain communications functions of the communications device.

In some embodiments the mobile communications functions or access to mobile communications device or functions are restored in response to the mobile communications device establishing an interaction with the near field communication tag. In certain embodiments while the vehicle is in motion restrictions are only removed modified in response to the communications device establishing an interaction with a near field communications tag positioned in close proximity of a user other than the driver of the moving vehicle.

In certain embodiments once an interaction between the communications device and the near field communications tag is established a processor included in the mobile communications device processes the instructions for modifying the restrictions. The processed information is used to modify the restrictions imposed on the mobile communications device.

In some embodiments the restrictions imposed on the communications device may include restrictions that modify reduce or disable at least one of certain mobile communications functions access to the certain mobile communications functions provided by the mobile communications device or access to the communications device. The mobile communications functions may include at least one of voice call video call web browsing text messaging or instant messaging.

In some embodiments the restrictions imposed on the communications device or communications functions may be modified restored or removed in response to detecting that the mobile communications device is connected to a unit that provides hands free access to the mobile communications device. In certain embodiments the restrictions imposed on the communications device may be modified restored or removed in an event a request for conducting an emergency communications call is received.

In certain embodiments the restrictions may be imposed in response to detecting that the mobile communications device is in a moving vehicle. In some embodiments it may be determined that the mobile communications device is in the moving vehicle in response to at least one of detecting that a speed at which location of the communications is changing is greater than a predetermined threshold or an indication received from a user of the mobile communications device.

In certain embodiments the restrictions may be modified for a pre determined period of time after the interaction with the near field communications tag is established. The modified restrictions may be restricted once the pre determined period of time has lapsed.

The driver and passengers may connect to a communications network via respective communications links and gain access to various communications functions e.g. voice calls video calls data access web browsing text messaging etc. through their respective mobile communications device . Certain restrictions including but not limited to device restrictions e.g. device software lock restrictions of mobile communications functions or restrictions of access to mobile communications functions may be imposed on each mobile communications device due to being in a moving vehicle.

In some embodiments each mobile communications device may be equipped with near field communications NFC capabilities. The NFC includes a set of wireless technology protocols that may be used by the mobile communications device to establish communications with NFC enabled end points by coming in close vicinity of the NFC enabled end points or in direct contact e.g. touching with NFC enabled end points. The NFC capabilities of the mobile communications device further enable the device to establish communications with an NFC chip hereinafter referenced as an NFC tag. 

In some embodiments the moving vehicle may be equipped with an NFC end point . The NFC end point may be an unpowered NFC end point. For example in certain embodiments the NFC end point may be an unpowered NFC tag.

The restrictions imposed on the communications devices positioned in a moving vehicle impact all communications devices in the moving vehicle including the mobile communications device of the passenger traveling in the moving vehicle . Since these restrictions on the passenger s mobile communications device are imposed by proxy and are not intended for the passenger s mobile communications device certain embodiments disclosed herein remove the restrictions imposed on the passenger s mobile communications device by utilizing the NFC tag to identify the mobile communications device belonging to the passenger of the moving vehicle and remove the imposed restrictions.

In some embodiments the NFC tag may activate data or instructions that when recognized or executed by the mobile communications device allow otherwise restricted communications functionalities of the mobile communications device to be modified or restored. The mobile communications device includes the instructions for changing its communications functionalities and activates the instructions by coming in close vicinity of the NFC tag e.g. by tapping the mobile communications device . Once activated the instructions cause the communications device to modify the communications restrictions imposed on the communications device.

For example while in motion if the passenger wishes to use his her mobile communications device he she may indicate that the mobile communications device is intended for use by users other than the driver by activating the NFC tag positioned in the passenger side P of the moving vehicle . The NFC tag activates instructions for removing the restrictions imposed on the mobile communications device due to being in the moving vehicle . The passenger s mobile communications device includes the instructions for removing the restrictions and after coming in the proximity of the NFC tag e.g. by being tapped against the tag executes the instructions. Once executed by the mobile communications device the instructions remove or allow the passenger to remove e.g. using prompts the restrictions previously imposed on the mobile communications device and allow the passenger to access the communications functions available through his her device .

In some embodiments the tag may be installed in the passenger side P of the moving vehicle such that it may be accessed by the passenger . In some embodiments the tag may not be easily accessible to the driver . In certain embodiments the tag may be positioned in a location accessible by the passenger positioned in or near the front passenger seat P of the moving vehicle e.g. in an area near the passenger side door . In some embodiments the rear seats not shown of the moving vehicle may further be equipped with one or more tags .

Although not shown in in some embodiments the driver side D of the moving vehicle may also be equipped with a tag . In certain embodiments the position of the NFC tag i.e. passenger side P or driver side D may be used as a differentiating factor for distinguishing between the driver s communications device and the passenger s communications device . For example in some embodiments the tag positioned in close proximity of a passenger may be arranged such that once an interaction between the tag the communications device is established all of the functions offered by the communications device are restored. However the tag positioned in close proximity of a driver may be arranged such that once an interaction between the tag the communications device is established only a limited set of functions offered by the communications device are restored and or the functions are restored for a limited period of time. Thus in some embodiments the functionality restored by each tag may vary dependent on the location of the tag when multiple tags are disposed in or near different seats in the vehicle.

In some embodiments the tag may be disposed so as to be accessible by one or more of the passengers but relatively inaccessible to the driver when the vehicle is in motion. In some embodiments the tag may be installed at any location within the vehicle. For example the tag may be installed on the interior side of each of the doors of the vehicle or on the interior side of each of the side windows of the vehicle .

The tag may be included in the vehicle during manufacture for example by the vehicle manufacturer. In some embodiments the tag may be installed in the vehicle voluntarily by the vehicle owner or operator and or as a part of a mandated vehicle inspection process.

In certain embodiments the vehicle may be equipped with a dock for docking the driver s mobile communications device . Although shown on the driver side D of the vehicle the dock may be placed anywhere within the moving vehicle that is accessible to the driver . In some embodiments the dock may be a built in unit that is installed at the time of manufacture by the vehicle manufacturer. In some embodiments the dock may be an external unit that is installed in the vehicle . In certain embodiments the dock may provide the driver with the ability to conduct hands free communications calls. The dock may contain a mechanical mechanism that automatically overrides some or all restrictions on functionality only when a mobile communications device is disposed therein and thereby contacts the mechanism or when the mobile communications device otherwise is able to electronically detect that it is installed in the dock .

Although not shown in some embodiments the driver may use a headset or a blue tooth system that enables the driver to use his her mobile communications device in a hands free mode. Other hands free options available in the art may be used to provide the driver with hands free access to his her mobile communications device .

In some embodiments a device user i.e. driver or passenger may issue an indication that the mobile communications device is being used in a moving vehicle . For example in some embodiments the device user may use an application application programming interface or a physical key not shown to indicate that the phone is in a moving vehicle . In other embodiments each mobile communications device may automatically detect that it is in a moving vehicle. In some embodiments the device user may indicate that the mobile communications device is being used in a moving vehicle by activating the NFC tag e.g. by tapping the mobile communications device on the NFC tag positioned in the moving vehicle.

In some embodiments the driver of the moving vehicle may activate an NFC tag that has been assigned to the driver to indicate that the mobile communications device has entered the vehicle whether or not the vehicle is in motion . In some embodiments the driver may indicate that the mobile communications device has entered the vehicle by docking the mobile communications device in the dock . In certain embodiments the driver may use an application program of the mobile communications device to indicate that the phone has entered the vehicle . In some embodiments the restrictions imposed e.g. on voice calls may be removed when the communications device is docked.

In certain embodiments rapid changes in the location of the mobile communications device may be used as an indication that the mobile communications device is in a moving vehicle. For example in certain embodiments the speed at which the location of the mobile communications device is being changed may be used as an indication that the mobile communications device is in a moving vehicle . Specifically in some embodiments the mobile communications device may include a speed detector module or an application not shown program that detects the speed at which the location of the mobile communications device is being changed. Other indicating factors known in the art may be used to determine that the mobile communications device is being used within a moving vehicle. In some embodiments the functionality of the mobile communications device may continue to remain limited for at least a predetermined period of time that is long enough to avoid false deactivation caused by temporary stops of the vehicle to avoid situations such as when the vehicle has stopped at a traffic light or sign.

In some embodiments the speed detector may be internal to the mobile communications device . In certain embodiments the speed detector may be external to the device and or be physically or wirelessly coupled to the device. For example in certain embodiments the speed detector may be positioned upstream with respect to the mobile communications device and within the communications network .

In certain embodiments the speed at which the location of the mobile communications device is being changed may be determined as a function of detecting the global positioning GPS of the mobile communications device over time. In some embodiments the speed at which the location of the mobile communications device is being changed may be determined as a function of determining the cellular base station not shown serving the mobile communications device at any given time and or the rate at which handoff between various base stations occurs. Any other technique known in the art may be used to determine the speed at which the mobile communications device is being moved.

In certain embodiments the speed at which the location of the mobile communications device is being changed may be continuously monitored. Additionally or alternatively in certain embodiments the speed at which the mobile communications device is being moved may be monitored at predetermined time intervals. In some embodiments the time intervals for monitoring the speed at which the mobile communications device is being moved may be set by the manufacturer of the mobile communications device or by the service provider providing mobile communications functions to the mobile communications device .

In certain embodiments if it is determined that the mobile communications device is in motion the speed at which the mobile communications device is being moved may be compared against a predetermined speed threshold. In an event the speed of the movement of the mobile communications device is larger than the predetermined threshold access to mobile communications functionalities may be restricted controlled and or disabled.

In certain embodiments multiple threshold levels may be used to control restrict or disable various mobile communications access functions. For example in some embodiments a first speed threshold may be used to control restrict or disable access to access functions such as web browsing using the mobile communications device while in motion. A second possibly higher or lower speed threshold may further be used to control restrict or disable access to access functions such as text messaging using the mobile communications device while in motion. In some embodiments additional threshold levels may also be employed to control restrict or disable other mobile communications access functions e.g. access to voice calls video calls etc. . In some embodiments the instructions for modifying the restrictions imposed on the communications device may allow for modification of the restrictions based on the threshold levels. For example the instructions may allow for restoration of phone calls if it is determined that the device is traveling below a certain speed threshold.

The speed threshold may be set using various factors. For example in certain embodiments the threshold may be set at a level that corresponds to traveling by any method other than walking. In certain embodiments the threshold may be set at a level corresponding to traveling speed in a divided highway. In some embodiments the speed threshold may vary dynamically and depending on the local traveling requirements. For example when traveling in a school zone the speed threshold may be changed to a lower level.

In some embodiments the speed threshold may vary depending on the local laws and policies. For example when traveling in a region that entirely prohibits use of mobile communications devices while driving the speed threshold may be set to entirely prevent use of all access functions e.g. text messaging web browsing voice calls etc. of the mobile communications device . When traveling in regions that prohibit certain access functions e.g. text messaging and web browsing of the mobile communications device but allow certain other functions e.g. voice calls the speed threshold for the restricted functions may be set to ensure that such functions are restricted during access and speed thresholds for permitted functions are set to ensure that those functions are available while in motion.

In some embodiments the speed threshold may vary depending on the amount of traffic on the travel route of the moving vehicle . In certain embodiments the speed threshold may vary depending on the time of the day. For example in some embodiments the speed threshold may be reduced at dusk and returned to a higher level at dawn.

In some embodiments the speed threshold may be pre programmed by the original device manufacturer of the mobile communications device . Additionally or alternatively in certain embodiments the speed threshold may be set by the service provider that provides the communications access to the mobile communications device . Further in some embodiments the speed threshold may be set by the manufacturer of the moving vehicle .

In some embodiments the speed threshold may be obtained from a database not shown of appropriate speed thresholds. In some embodiments the database of speed thresholds may be maintained locally within the mobile communications device . In certain embodiments the database may be stored outside of the mobile communications device . For example in some embodiments the database may be maintained within the network and or by the service provider that provides the mobile communications access to the mobile communications device .

In some embodiments multiple databases of speed thresholds may be utilized such that the speed threshold for controlling restricting or disabling a given function at any given time is selected from one of the available databases. In certain embodiments the appropriate database for selecting the speed threshold may be chosen based on travel related factors such as geographical location and traffic situations.

In some embodiments in an event the speed at which the mobile communications device is being moved exceeds the predetermined threshold mobile communications functionality may be modified or restored. In some embodiments communications functions may be modified such that the user may be able to conduct a limited set of tasks. For example in some embodiments restrictions may be modified such that the user may access certain functions only when traveling at certain speeds e.g. text messaging may be made possible when traveling at less than 5 miles per hour .

In some embodiments restrictions may be modified or restored over a certain predetermined period of time. For example in one embodiment user may only be allowed to make phone calls having certain time durations e.g. less than a minute long . In some embodiments the time duration for making phone calls may be modified or controlled based on the location of the NFC tag . For example a user using a tag located adjacent to the back seat of the moving vehicle may be allowed to conduct longer communications calls than a user using a tag located in close proximity of the front passenger seat or in close proximity of the driver of the vehicle. In certain embodiments the passengers of the moving vehicle may be allowed longer call times than the driver .

In some embodiments restrictions may be modified such that the user can receive incoming communications calls or messages but cannot make any communications calls or send any messages. In certain embodiments access may be modified such that the user may only receive communications calls or messages from a certain set of callers. For example access may be restricted such that a teenage driver may be able to receive communications calls from his her caregivers. In some embodiments the device manufacturer vehicle manufacturer or the service provider may control how and whether the restrictions can be modified. In some embodiments the restrictions may be modified as a parental supervision feature by a caregiver of a user e.g. caregiver of a teenage driver allowing the driver to only make voice calls to the caregiver .

In some embodiments restrictions may be modified such that one or more mobile communications functions are disabled. For example in some embodiments voice calls may be restored but web browsing functions may be disabled. In some embodiments text messaging functions may be disabled while voice calls are restored. In some embodiments voice functions e.g. making or receiving phone calls may be disabled. In certain embodiments access to phone functions for making emergency phone calls may be allowed while voice functions are disabled.

In some embodiments once an interaction between the communications device and the NFC tag is established access to communications functions may be controlled restricted or modified by the service provider providing mobile communications access to the mobile communications device . Additionally or alternatively in certain embodiments access to communications functions may be controlled restricted or modified from the mobile communications device side. For example in one embodiment the mobile communications device may include an application program that modifies reduces or disables certain communications functions e.g. web browsing text messaging sending or receiving voice calls of the mobile communications device once an interaction between the communications device and the NFC tag is established . In certain embodiments once an interaction between the communications device and the NFC tag is established a module positioned within the network may modify reduce or disable communications functions of the device.

In some embodiments the instructions for removing the restrictions imposed on the mobile communications device due to being in the moving vehicle may be included in the mobile communications device . In such embodiments the activation of the NFC tag by the mobile communications device or the recognition of the NFC tag by the mobile communications device results in activation and execution of the instructions stored in the mobile communications device . Once the instructions are executed the imposed restrictions on the mobile communications device are removed.

In certain embodiments the NFC tag may be arranged to activate removal of the restrictions from one device at the time. Specifically the NFC tag may be arranged to activate a set of instructions that remove the restrictions from the communications device for a predetermined period of time e.g. two minutes . During that time period no other device may be activated i.e. restrictions from no other device may be removed using the NFC tag .

In some embodiments once the user has completed using his her mobile communications device and the device has been idle for a period of time the restrictions previously imposed on the device may once again be imposed on the device. The period of time that should lapse before the restrictions are imposed on the device may be dictated by the device manufacturer set by the device user or set by the service provider.

In some embodiments rather than being based on time the restrictions may be imposed on the device as soon as a communications session carried out by the user is completed. For example in some embodiments the restrictions may be imposed upon completion of a phone call transmission of a text message or an email or once the user has exited a browser or an application program interface.

In some embodiments if the passenger wishes to continue to use the device he she may reactivate the instructions using the NFC tag by again bringing the mobile communications device in contact with or in close proximity of the tag . This may trigger the method described above.

For example in some embodiments the software may implement the procedures receiving and transmitting near field communications NFC signals. In certain embodiments the software may implement the procedures for reading the data and instructions included in an NFC tag . Further the software may implement the procedures for executing the instructions included in the NFC tag . In some embodiments the software may implement the procedures that result in modifying reducing restricting or restoring communications to the mobile communications device . Alternatively in some embodiments an application program not shown or a module not shown positioned in the network shown in may be responsible for modifying reducing restricting or restoring communications to the mobile communications device . For example upon activation by the NFC tag the mobile communications device may read and execute instructions either included in the NFC tag or included in the mobile device that trigger the mobile communications device to connect to an application program or module positioned in the network . The application program or module in response transmits a set of instructions to the mobile communications device via the network . The instructions once received by the device cause the removal of the restrictions imposed on the communications device .

The main memory may also include an operating system that implements various conventional operating system functions including memory management and controlled access to various devices such as a database storage and task and process scheduling. The data storage may include content for use with embodiments disclosed herein such as images text video audio and computer applications.

The processor may be coupled to various interfaces via an input output I O device interface . The I O device interface may include logic to interface with various input and or output devices such as a keypad or mouse and with the processor and allow signals to be transferred between the processor and other components. Further interface devices such as speaker microphone peripheral devices and display may be used to transfer signals to from the processor and main memory . In some embodiments the input output interface may include a USB port not shown .

In some embodiments the device may include a network device interface that provides the device with access to a network connection.

If it is indicated that controlling of mobile communications functions is desired the speed at which the mobile communications device is being moved is compared against a threshold . If the speed exceeds the threshold communications functions corresponding to that threshold is restricted . For example making voice calls may be allowed at lower speed levels e.g. less than miles per hour while text messaging may be entirely prohibited. In such case a first threshold for text messaging is exceeded once the device is in motion. A second threshold for making voice calls may also be utilized. In an event the speed at which the mobile device is being moved exceeds the second threshold voice call functions are restricted.

While communications functions are restricted the user may wish to use the mobile communications device . The user may express desire to use the mobile communications device by attempting to use the communications functions of the device e.g. dial a number to make a phone call . In such case certain embodiments verify whether the mobile communications device is docked and or in a hands free mode . If in the docked hands free mode access to certain communications functions e.g. voice calls is granted . If not in the docked mode certain embodiments allow access once the mobile communications device is topped against an NFC tag As noted above the NFC tag is positioned in the proximity of the passengers such that the passengers can easily access the NFC tag but the driver may not access the tag easily. The activation of the NFC tag triggers execution of instructions that restore access to the mobile communications device If the mobile communications device is neither in a docked hands free mode nor used to activate the smart tag certain embodiments may determine if the user is attempting to make an emergency call . If it is determined that the user is trying to make an emergency call access to the functions of the mobile communications device is permitted. Otherwise access is restricted . In some embodiments a signal e.g. audio signal may be issued to the user to indicate that the requested functions are not allowed while driving.

In some embodiments once an allowed communications session is completed the restrictions on the phone functions may once again be imposed on the mobile communications device provided that the mobile communications device is still in a moving vehicle .

It is worth noting that the placement of one or more of the steps in the method shown in may be different. For example the mobile communications device at may detect whether or not it is docked before determining the speed or whether or not functions are to be controlled thereby avoiding the processing involved in these latter steps. In certain embodiments the ability to use the NFC tag may be deactivated until the restrictions are in place i.e. the vehicle first must reach a speed at which functionality of the mobile communications device at is restricted before the NFC tag may be used thereby reducing the possibility of the driver circumventing the restriction by using the NFC tag while the vehicle is stopped.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

Unless otherwise stated all measurements values ratings positions magnitudes sizes and other specifications that are set forth in this specification including in the claims that follow are approximate not exact. They are intended to have a reasonable range that is consistent with the functions to which they relate and with what is customary in the art to which they pertain.

The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended and should be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents. Notwithstanding none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections 101 102 or 103 of the Patent Act nor should they be interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby disclaimed.

Except as stated immediately above nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by a or an does not without further constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

