---

title: Self-tuning knowledge-based authentication
abstract: An improved technique involves automatically producing a set of KBA questions using values of attributes associated with correctly answered questions. A KBA question server obtains such attribute values from a prior set of pilot questions taken from users who were successfully authenticated. Examples of attributes include a source of facts in a question, placement of facts in a question, and question structure. The KBA question server then generates optimal formatting rules based on the attribute values; such formatting rules define a relationship between facts used to derive KBA questions and the words used to express the KBA questions to users. The KBA question generator then produces KBA questions according to the formatting rules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08850537&OS=08850537&RS=08850537
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 08850537
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120927
---
Knowledge based authentication KBA involves deriving questions regarding a particular user from facts in a database and then asking that user one or more of the derived questions to verify the authenticity of the user. For example KBA accesses facts such as addresses mortgage payments and driving records from a LexisNexis server a credit bureau or a motor vehicle registry.

Some conventional KBA systems use pilot questions to determine the quality of the questions being provided to users. Such pilot questions appear to the users as normal KBA questions. Rather than use the pilot questions to authenticate users however such systems use the pilot questions to evaluate whether the pilot questions are effective for authentication. As such the pilot questions represent a feedback mechanism for the KBA systems in generating new KBA questions.

The conventional KBA systems that employ pilot questions use a manual inspection of pilot question results for guidance on building new KBA questions. In a typical case an administrator evaluates pilot question results and bases new KBA questions on the pilot questions that were answered correctly most often by those users successfully authenticated. Such an administrator s experience and knowledge of KBA policies play a role in determining the form of the new KBA questions.

Unfortunately there are deficiencies with the above described conventional KBA systems that use pilot questions. For example manual evaluation of pilot questions may require exposing an administrator to sensitive information. Such a requirement may be a disadvantage for corporations for which providing such results to a third party administrator may represent an unacceptable exposure of the sensitive information. Rather they would entrust an internal administrator to construct KBA questions from the results manually. Nevertheless such a scheme is not practical because many corporations do not have the resources to manually evaluate results of pilot questions internally. Further manual evaluation of pilot questions runs a high risk of errors as such evaluation relies on human judgment.

In contrast to conventional KBA systems that use pilot questions in which required manual analysis by a third party administrator runs a risk of exposing the administrator to sensitive information an improved technique involves automating the analysis of pilot question results by determining formats of the KBA questions that successfully authenticated users were able to answer correctly most often. The improved technique then involves generating new KBA questions using those formats. In some arrangements the automated analysis determines format types by classifying communication factors that make up a format. Such communication factors include a font in which a written question is displayed fact source from which a KBA question was derived use of passive or active voice and placement of a fact within a question. Along these lines the automated analysis then determines the combinations of communication factors that produce the KBA question formats that minimize the risk of false negatives in KBA.

For example suppose that a KBA question server categorizes a pool of KBA questions using values of expressive factors such as a fact source from which a KBA question was derived a placement of a fact within the KBA question and whether the KBA question is in active or passive voice. Along these lines a KBA question such as Who is your manager may have communication factor values of email server question end and active voice respectively. Other KBA questions may have different values of these communication factors. In such cases the KBA question server would use statistical techniques to determine the optimal values of the communication factor based on a fraction of legitimate users that answered each pilot question correctly. Specifically the KBA question would consider values of the communication factor as optimal when the fraction is greater than a threshold value. The KBA question server would then construct a set of formatting rules based on the optimal values of the communication factors from these formatting rules the KBA question server would generate new KBA questions for authenticating users. The KBA question server on the other hand would not use formats corresponding to questions that a sufficient fraction of legitimate users answered incorrectly.

Advantageously the improved technique allows a corporation to avoid exposing sensitive information because the corporation is able to handle feedback data internally. Because the KBA question server is configured to analyze results of pilot questions based on a set of communication factors such analysis may be automated and would not require a third party to provide expertise. In this way the corporation is better able to have confidence in authentication results because they are able to tune KBA questions automatically based on criteria designed to help legitimate users authenticate dependably. Further the improved technique allows for a more consistent treatment of the answers to pilot questions that is free from human error. Still further the improved technique allows for better localization for example some dialects prefer passive to active voice.

One embodiment of the improved technique is directed to a method of generating KBA questions from a set of facts. The method includes receiving answers to a prior set of KBA questions from a group of users each user of the group of users having been successfully authenticated using questions from another prior set of KBA questions distinct from the prior set of KBA questions each KBA question of the prior set of KBA questions having a format selected from a set of predefined formats each format of the set of predefined formats defining a relationship between facts of the set of facts and words of a set of words in which the prior set of KBA questions are expressed. The method also includes identifying a correct subset of the prior set of KBA questions to which the group of users provided correct answers and an incorrect subset of the prior set of KBA questions to which the group of users provided incorrect answers. The method further includes automatically selecting a first subset of the predefined set of formats based on the correct subset and a second subset of the predefined set of formats based on the incorrect subset. The method further includes generating a new set of KBA questions from facts of the set of facts each KBA question of the new set of KBA questions having a format of the first subset of the predefined set of formats to improve effectiveness of future KBA questions.

Additionally some embodiments of the improved technique are directed to a system constructed and arranged to generate KBA questions from a set of facts. The system includes memory and a controller including controlling circuitry constructed and arranged to carry out the method of generating KBA questions from a set of facts.

Furthermore some embodiments of the improved technique are directed to a computer program product having a non transitory computer readable storage medium which stores code including a set of instructions to carry the method of generating KBA questions from a set of facts.

An improved technique involves automating the analysis of pilot question results. Such an automated analysis of pilot question results in turn involves correlating a format in which a KBA question may be expressed to the ability of authentic users to answer that question. That is the automated analysis would determine the types of formats that authenticated users answer correctly most often. In some arrangements the automated analysis determines format types by classifying communication factors that make up a format such expressive factors include a font in which a written question is displayed fact source from which a KBA question was derived use of passive or active voice and placement of a fact within a question. Along these lines the automated analysis then determines the combinations of communication factors that produce the KBA question formats that minimize the risk of false negatives in KBA.

Advantageously the improved technique allows a corporation to avoid exposing sensitive information because the corporation is able to handle feedback data internally. Because the KBA question server is configured to analyze results of pilot questions based on a set of communication factors such analysis may be automated and would not require a third party to provide expertise. In this way the corporation is better able to have confidence in authentication results because they are able to tune KBA questions automatically based on criteria designed to help legitimate users authenticate dependably. Further the improved technique allows for a more consistent treatment of the answers to pilot questions that is free from human error.

Fact server is constructed and arranged to store facts and words used in the generation of KBA questions. Fact server includes fact database and word database .

Fact database is constructed and arranged to store facts obtained from various facts sources e.g. Microsoft Exchange SAP server . Examples of facts include membership in a department in a corporation attendance at a meeting invitation to a series of meetings and customer data.

Question server is constructed and arranged to produce KBA questions from facts in fact database and words in word database . Question server is also constructed and arranged to store KBA questions so produced. In the example presented in question server includes a set of prior questions and a set of new questions .

Prior questions include pilot questions and to which answers were provided by users . Each of the prior questions includes values of attributes A B and C. Examples of prior questions include Which of the following people attended the meeting last Wednesday at 2 00 PM How many managerial layers are there between you and the CEO and Where is User X . Examples of attributes of prior questions include the source of facts used in generating a question structure of a question e.g. passive or active voice placement of facts within a question e.g. beginning or end and presentation of a question e.g. font for text presentation audio presentation etc. .

In some arrangements pilot questions and each represent different expressions of the same query. For example asking a user who their manager is may take the following forms Who is your boss Your evaluation was performed by whom and Who runs your group meetings . Question server generates such pilot questions from the same set of facts and they have the same correct answer.

It should be understood that pilot questions and would not be used in the decision to authenticate users . Rather other questions that were not pilot questions and would be used. Nevertheless users would not suspect any difference between pilot questions and and the other questions.

New questions are configured to be presented to users for authentication. New questions also include values of attributes A B and C and are generated according to a procedure such as that described below.

During operation question server receives answers to prior questions from users . In the scenario illustrated correct answers had been provided to questions and . In some arrangements a sufficient fraction of answers to questions and provided by users had been correct.

For questions and to which correct answers were provided by users question server identifies values of attributes A B C A3 B3 C3 for question A4 B4 C4 for question and A5 B5 and C5 for question . For example attribute A represents the source of the fact from which a question was derived attribute B represents a structure of the question and attribute C represents a placement of a fact within the question. Examples of values of attributes for prior questions will be described below with respect to . From the correct questions and question server forms a set of selected attribute values that includes the values of the attributes of the correct questions and

From the selected attribute values question server generates a question format in which new questions will be expressed. Format defines a relationship between facts from fact database and words in word database used in new questions . That is question format provides a set of words from word database for a given set of facts from fact database used to form a question. For example one format in which new questions may be expressed would take the form Which of the following people attended the on at . Question server determines the facts used in this question event date time and words surrounding the facts from selected attribute values . In some arrangements question server forms more than one format each such format used for different sets of facts used in forming a question.

From the format question server generates new questions each new question having new values of attributes A B and C. For example question server inserts particular facts from fact database into format to form a new question .

It should be understood that the procedure described above functions within a closed loop system. That is question server generates new questions from knowledge within a single KBA system see . Taking data from outside the system e.g. from outside data sources such as public records would lead to less effective questions.

Network interface takes the form of an Ethernet card in some arrangements network interface takes other forms including a wireless receiver and a token ring card.

Memory is configured to store code which includes question code configured to provide instructions to generate a set of questions from facts in fact database see . Questions in turn are stored in questions database on storage device . Memory also includes attribute selection code which is configured to provide instructions to determine attribute values based on correct answers to pilot questions. Memory further includes format code which is configured to provide instructions to generate a format from selected attribute values . Memory generally takes the form of e.g. random access memory flash memory or a non volatile memory.

Processor takes the form of but is not limited to Intel or AMD based MPUs and can include a single or multi cores each running single or multiple threads. Processor is coupled to memory and is configured to execute instructions from question code attribute selection code and format code . Processor includes question engine which is configured to execute instructions provided by question code attribute selection engine which is configured to execute instructions provided by attribute selection code and format engine which is configured to execute instructions provided by format code .

During operation question server receives results of answers of prior questions stored in question database over network interface . Processor stores the results in question database . It should be understood that each entry of question database includes a KBA question and attribute values. In some arrangements each entry of question database also includes a value of an indication parameter corresponding to the fraction of users who have been successfully authenticated that answered the KBA question of the entry correctly.

Attribute selection engine selects attributes values based on the results of the answers stored in question database . In some arrangements attribute selection engine performs statistical analyses of the attribute values based upon corresponding values of the indication parameter. In some arrangements attribute selection engine performs a machine learning operation to determine which attribute values correlate with larger values of the indication parameter. Processor stores resulting selected attribute values see in memory .

Format engine derives a set of formats see based on selected attribute values stored in memory . Processor stores formats in question database .

Question engine generates KBA questions using formats . For each user question engine inserts facts from fact database see into templates defined by formats to create KBA questions. In some arrangements question engine marks particular questions as pilot questions whose answers are to be used to update formats .

A specific example of the technique of generating KBA questions described above is described with respect to .

Processor inputs contents of table into a correlation engine which functions as attribute selection engine see . Correlation engine determines a set of values of the attributes that are best correlated to a high value of the indication parameter. For example email servers as fact sources placing facts at the end of a question and using active voice would correlate with a high value of the indication parameter. Processor places such attribute values in a memory location within memory .

As described above format engine derives one or more formats from attribute values . For example one such format may take the form Who is your Another such question may take the form When did perform . The words in angle brackets represent placeholders for various types of facts to be inserted into the format for creating KBA questions. Question engine fills the placeholders with facts from fact database see .

It should be understood that many KBA questions are multiple choice. The choices include one correct answer and several confounders designed to seem plausibly correct to someone with partial knowledge of a user s information. Such KBA questions are discussed in more detail with respect to .

In some further arrangements processor may also assign attribute values to the confounders of question . In this case however processor may consider incorrectly answered questions from users who failed to authenticate. Nevertheless processor would follow a similar procedure as that for the correct choice in deriving possible formats for the confounders.

Communication medium provides network connections between KBA system enterprise app server and service rep terminal . Communications medium may implement a variety of protocols such as TCP IP UDP ATM Ethernet Fibre Channel combinations thereof and the like. Furthermore communications media may include various components e.g. cables switches routers gateways bridges NAS SAN appliances nodes interfaces etc. . Moreover the communications medium are capable of having a variety of topologies e.g. queue manager and spoke ring backbone multi drop point to point irregular combinations thereof and so on .

Enterprise app server provides an application programming interface API for providing questions to person .

Service rep terminal receives questions from enterprise app server and presents them to person through a service representative. In some arrangements service rep terminal is a Netview terminal.

During operation person during an authentication session submits answers to KBA questions asked via enterprise app server or by a service representative at server representative terminal . At least one of the KBA questions is a pilot question who corresponding answer is configured to be analyzed by question server . Based on answer question server derives new KBA questions according to a procedure described above. Sometime later when person requests authentication again KBA system sends person KBA questions which need to be answered correctly for a successful authentication.

While various embodiments of the invention have been particularly shown and described it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

For example in some arrangements fact server may obtain data from system logs. In this way pilot questions can return data on whether KBA questions based on system logs make for effective authentication schemes.

Furthermore it should be understood that some embodiments are directed to question server which is constructed and arranged to generate KBA questions from a set of facts. Some embodiments are directed to a process of generating KBA questions from a set of facts. Also some embodiments are directed to a computer program product which enables computer logic to generate KBA questions from a set of facts.

In some arrangements question server is implemented by a set of processors or other types of control processing circuitry running software. In such arrangements the software instructions can be delivered within question server respectively see in the form of a computer program product each computer program product having a computer readable storage medium which stores the instructions in a non volatile manner. Alternative examples of suitable computer readable storage media include tangible articles of manufacture and apparatus such as CD ROM flash memory disk memory tape memory and the like.

