---

title: Selection and organization based on selection of X-Y position
abstract: An X-Y interaction (XYI) facilitates rapid relationship pairing by creating tap or selection zones that intersect variables. The y-axis contains an indefinite number of variables (items) that can be assigned to x-axis variables (groups). “Items” are individual bits of information or data, like a transaction, song, item, or a to-do task. “Groups” are predefined buckets that apply specific rules or actions or represent specific things or people. Items get assigned to groups, and then the rules are applied to them. Items along the y-axis can be organized based on where along an x-axis a user selects an item. The selection can be by tapping, and one item can be selected for multiple groups.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09360998&OS=09360998&RS=09360998
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09360998
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121031
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 554 085 filed Nov. 1 2011.

The present application generally relates to display devices and more particularly to selecting and managing information on a display device.

Display devices such as PCs smart phones computing tablets and the like are capable of displaying all sorts of different information. Typically the information is viewed by the user and actions may be performed such as retrieving additional content information exchanging information making a payment making a purchase etc. The information may be organized through specific products or apps that allow the user to manage the information. For example a spreadsheet may enable a user to store track and manage data.

An X Y interaction XYI facilitates rapid relationship pairing by creating tap or selection zones that intersect variables. The y axis contains an indefinite number of variables items that can be assigned to x axis variables groups or actions . Items are individual bits of information or data like a transaction song item or a to do task. Groups or actions used interchangeably herein are predefined buckets that apply specific rules or actions or represent specific things or people. Items get assigned to groups and then the rules are applied to them. Items along the y axis can be organized based on where along an x axis a user selects an item. The selection can be by tapping and one item can be selected for multiple groups.

A user is presented with a plurality of items along the y axis and a plurality of groups along the x axis on a display of a user device such as a tablet smart phone PC or the like. Note that items may be presented along the x axis and groups placed along the y axis. The items and groups may be created e.g. selected and arranged by the user or pre populated by a service provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. The following description will focus on a touch screen display such as on an iPad tablet from Apple. However as those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other displays and devices may also be suitable. For example instead of touching or tapping a portion of the screen a user may move a pointer such as with a mouse or trackball to a portion of the screen and click on that portion to select.

Once the user is presented with the items and groups the user may quickly and easily organize items by tapping the appropriate intersection of an item with a desired group. Multiple items can be selected for a single group and a single item can be selected for multiple groups. The selected items or groups can then be selected to display only the selected items or groups. As a result items can be organized groups of items created and appropriate actions taken automatically or triggered by a user with the groups.

The type of items and or actions may depend on the service provided or content stored with the user account with the service provider. For example in the fanner case the service provider may be a payment services provider and the user is an employee of the payment services provider if the employee s responsibility is to handle dispute from customers the items may be individual disputes and the actions may be different actions that can be taken for the disputes such as full refund partial refund deny refund follow up with merchant and or customer etc.

The type of items and or actions may depend on a user selection. For example the user may have different types of data or items to be managed in different ways. Thus the user may select the data item set from the user account which would aid the merchant in determining the display e.g. the appropriate items data in one direction and the appropriate actions in the other direction. Note that items may be arranged along the y axis and actions along the x axis if desired such as depending on the number of items the number of actions and or the dimensions of the user display device.

Once a display is determined the display is presented to the user on the user device. The user is able to move items to specific locations on the display where the location determines the action to be performed on the item s . In some embodiments only one item can be associated with one action while in other embodiments a plurality of items can be associated with a single action or a single item can be associated with a plurality of actions. The user can move a desired item s to a desired location corresponding to an action by dragging and dropping the item s clicking on the item s moving the item s and then unclicking the item s at the desired location tapping on a desired intersection of an item and an action or other suitable means for associating an item with a location on a device display.

The image or item movement is then communicated to the service provider at step . For example the service provider may know where each item is located initially on the display and where an item ends up based on spatial location. The initial location of the item being moved can be determined which allows the service provider to know what that item is based on the spatial location on the display.

The item is then moved to an end location on the display which is received by the service provider at step . The location where the item ends up corresponds to an action. Thus the service provider can associate such as by a lookup the end location of the moved item to a particular action based on the detected location of the moved item on the display to determine the action at step .

Once the action s and the item s are determined the service provider processes the item s accordingly at step . Some examples below and in illustrate but are not limiting a few practical use cases of items and actions.

Once logged in the user may see a home page with options or tabs that the user can select to view a specific display of actions and items. For example there may be an item management tab that allows the user to view one or more displays with different items and actions. The various displays may have user specified names for easy identification. Once a desired display is selected the user will see one or more items each item being associated with a specific location on the display and one or more actions each action being associated with a specific location on the display. Note that in other embodiments the user does not have to log in to conduct an XYI.

At step the user selects one or more desired item s from the display. In one embodiment the user taps one or more items for selection. In another embodiment the user clicks on or checks a box associated with one or more desired items. The items may be located vertically in the display and may span the entire width or partial width of the display. The items may have a textual description and or a visual description or indicator. In other embodiments the items may be positioned horizontally along the display and span all or part of the height of the display.

Once selected the user moves the one or more selected items at step . In one embodiment the user moves the item or items individually or as a group to a location on the display corresponding to a desired action for the item s . With a touch screen the user places a finger on the item or items and moves the finger to the desired location on the screen. Upon removing the finger from the screen the item s are dropped to their desired location. In another embodiment the user uses a mouse or trackball to move the item s . Other moving means may also be suitable depending on the device type. Actions for the items may be shown along the x axis along the width of the display or along a y axis along the length or height of the display.

After the user has placed the desired item s to one or more locations corresponding to actions the user may be asked to confirm the process or action at step . For example the user may be shown a box that summarizes the actions which may include selected items and a button link or box the user can select to confirm the action. The action s may then be performed on the selected item s and the results shown to the user on the user device. Note that one or more steps described herein may be omitted combined or performed in a different sequence as desired or suitable. The following provides some non limiting examples of actions and items.

The disputes may come from customers of a merchant through an email website a dispute handling area of the merchant or other means. Typically the merchant may then be required to decide which of several actions to take on the dispute. This can be time consuming as each dispute may need to be handled individually before moving onto another dispute.

In one embodiment merchants or users may assign disputes items to common actions groups . In one embodiment actions are along headers of different columns of the x axis such as full refund partial refund no refund and message. Items such as refund requests from different users and transactions are shown in rows along the y axis. The items may span the entire row or only a portion of the row. By tapping or selecting a portion of the item under a specific header the action is selected for that item. For example if first third fourth and eighth requests are full refund requests they are tapped at an intersection of a first column representing full refunds. Also if the third and an eighth request require a message back the portions of the third and eighth requests intersecting with a fourth column representing message is tapped. All full refund requests can then be organized easily along with other requests all within one screen. Thus with many different actions on an x axis and items to sort organize on the y axis a user can quickly and easily organize create.

Each item or dispute can also be selected for multiple actions if desired or applicable. For example the last dispute selected for a partial refund processing may also be selected to have a message sent such as by tapping the location under the message column i.e. along the general area of the dispute ID and dispute amount. The number of each item for each action is shown as well three items for full refund and one item for partial refund . The user may then select or tap a desired action to enable or initiate the action.

A user may create an indefinite amount of to do tasks items and then assign them to desired groups. For example if the user is managing his own to do list or for another individual the user may assign tasks to specific days of the week month or other time period groups or actions . If the user is managing a series of tasks for a plurality of people to do the user may assign tasks to specific people groups or actions .

The user may enter or select a series of tasks for display along the y axis. The desired groups may be entered or selected as well and shown along the x axis. In one example the user is a mother assigning tasks or chores item to a plurality of family members group . The items may be mowing the lawn item vacuuming the house item helping chop vegetables item taking out the trash item and watering the lawn item . The group may include a first son group a second son group a daughter group a husband group and the mom herself group . Mom may tap the intersection between an item task and the group family member therein assigning it to get done by the desired person. Multiple tasks may be assigned to a single family member. The tasks may be filtered first such as by estimated time to complete the task urgency difficulty represented by age group the task should be performed by etc.

Once organized the user may select the group or family member for further action. For example if Mom selects group the daughter the items or tasks selected for the daughter may be sent to the daughter such as by text or email to the daughter s smart phone or be placed onto the daughter s electronic calendar. Note that the family members may also be displayed or viewed as items and the chores or tasks may be displayed or viewed as actions such that the user can drag and drop desired family members to assign them to specific chores.

Songs could be y axis items and playlists could be x axis groups or actions. The user may select songs for the items such as from the user s music library or through a music service. The songs may be represented as audio files or clips a textual description such as name artist album or other identifier. The playlists may be created by the user such as Party Sinatra Slow Jazz Disco Kid s Birthday Dinner Music etc.

The user may then quickly swipe through the songs and tap the desired intersection to assign a song item to a playlist group . The songs may have filters applied such as by date genre artist type e.g. instrumental vocal etc. Selected songs may be assigned to multiple playlists. Once completed the user may select a desired playlist for additional action. For example the user may be shown the list of selected songs which can then be processed to create the playlist on the user s device. This can also be done automatically. Thus an action of creating a playlist can be performed on selected songs items .

Messages such as emails or texts may be displayed along the y axis as items and folders may be displayed along the x axis as groups or actions. This feature may be an option selectable by the user from the user s email account. Emails in a user s inbox may be displayed indicating the subject header sender time day sent and indication of any attachments. Folders may be created by the user and displayed as folder names. The user may then tap the desired email at the desired intersection to place the email into the appropriate folder.

A filter may be applied to the emails such as by date sent size sender name sender domain address etc. In one embodiment the use may select an email to be placed in multiple folders. In such a case the system may generate one or more copies of the email so that multiple copies of the same email can be placed in multiple folders. Once done the display may revert to a standard email format. Thus an action of organizing or populating a folder can be performed on selected emails or texts items .

Transactions actions or accounts items can be organized and routed to the appropriate person or team group or action for handling. For example a user may be a person at a company in charge of routing incoming emails or messages received from the company s website to a desired person or department. The emails or messages items may be items along the y axis and different people or departments groups may be shown along the x axis. The emails or messages may be filtered such as by time sent how sent by email or through website etc.

The user may then select desired emails or messages to be sent to the appropriate group for handling. For example suspicious transactions or emails may be tapped at a location corresponding to a fraud person or group information requests may be tapped for routing to a product service group and requests for payment may be routed to an accounts payable group. Once selected for a group the message or transaction may be immediately sent such as by email to the group or a batch may be sent after the user has finished routing some or all of the messages. As a result specific groups may be able to receive immediately and handle only those messages they are meant to handle.

Tasks can also be routed more like a system work flow like packets of data that represent something like a work order assignment transaction etc. . These would be the items which can then be selected for specific groups or individuals for handling group . Thus an action of routing to a specific group or person is performed on selected data such as transactions actions emails etc. items for handling.

Questions or statements items may be displayed along the y axis and answers or responses may be displayed along the x axis. Questions or statements may be filtered such as by difficulty age group subject matter etc. The responses may be true false and don t know . The user may be timed for the complete set of questions or given a certain time to answer each question statement. Once completed the score may be automatically provided to the user along with any other information such as comparison to other scores from a similar age or age group.

As noted these are just examples of how a user can easily manage data and cause desired actions to be performed on selected items by simply moving items to specific locations on a user display.

User device and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an iPad from Apple .

User device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet such as user payees and payers and information other from the payment provider. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application as further described herein.

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow user to send and receive emails calls and texts through network as well as applications that enable the user to communicate and transfer information through and with the payment provider as discussed above. User device includes one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment provider. A communications application with associated interfaces enables user device to communicate within system .

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide information to and receive information from user such as for making payments. In this regard payment provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with user device over network to facilitate sending payments from user of user device .

Payment provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with consumers merchants and funding sources such as credit card companies. For example account information may include private financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords device identifiers user names phone numbers credit card information bank information identification cards and photos which may be used to facilitate transactions by user .

A transaction processing application which may be part of payment application or separate may be configured to receive information from a user device for processing and storage in a payment database . Transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process information from user for processing a payment or transfer using various selected funding instruments or cards. As such transaction processing application may store details of payment transfer from individual users including funding source s used credit options available etc to other individuals or entities. Payment application may be further configured to determine the existence of and to manage accounts for user as well as create new accounts if necessary such as the set up and management payments by the user.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons image or links and or moving one or more images etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device a merchant server or a payment provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common fauns of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

