---

title: Methods and apparatuses for charging of electric vehicles
abstract: A method for managing the charging of an electric vehicle. The method includes receiving a request for a charge transfer for an electric vehicle over a network link between an electric vehicle charging station and a cloud server. The network link has a mobile device disposed between the electrical vehicle charging station and the cloud server for facilitating communication between the charging station and the cloud server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09348381&OS=09348381&RS=09348381
owner: Zeco Systems Pte Ltd
number: 09348381
owner_city: Singapore
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20121018
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 549 174 filed Oct. 19 2011 titled Methods and Apparatuses for Controlled Variable Rate Charging of Electric Vehicles and also U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 620 855 filed Apr. 5 2012 titled Management of Charging Station of Electric Powered Vehicles Using a Mobile Device. Each of the aforementioned related patent applications is herein incorporated by reference.

Various technologies and techniques described herein relate to electric vehicles and systems and methods for recharging electric vehicles.

This section is intended to provide background information to facilitate a better understanding of various technologies described herein. As the section s title implies this is a discussion of related art. That such art is related in no way implies that it is prior art. The related art may or may not be prior art. It should therefore be understood that the statements in this section are to be read in this light and not as admissions of prior art.

An electric vehicle EV is the common name given to describing automobiles designed to operate their electric motor on a rechargeable battery. The battery is recharged when the electric vehicle is connected to an electric vehicle charging station or electric vehicle supply equipment EVSE . Power from the electrical grid is used to refuel an electric vehicle.

With the rising demand for alternative modes of transportation that are environmentally friendly and operated independently of gasoline prices electric vehicles are rising in popularity among the consuming public. However while gas stations are located on every street corner commercially available charging stations are not. The demand for electric vehicles remains limited by the infrastructure available for supporting the charging of the growing number of cars. Until charging an electric vehicle becomes both convenient and affordable for users a major deterrent exists for new consumers wanting a green method of transportation.

Several problems currently exist in making electric vehicles ideal for personal use. First many pure electric vehicles have severe distance limitations in comparison to their hybrid or gasoline powered vehicle counterparts. While a tank of gasoline can be refilled in minutes the battery on an electric vehicle may take minutes hours or a day to become fully recharged. Secondly cross country travel for electric vehicles requires charging stations in both major cities and scarcely populated areas throughout the United States. To make electric vehicles a convenient reality commercial charging stations cannot be limited to niche areas of the country. Personal charging stations in the home are not enough. A viable market exists for commercial charging stations capable of providing the infrastructure necessary for supporting numerous electric vehicles.

Described herein are implementations of a system for managing an electric vehicle charging station. The system may include a cloud server an electric vehicle charging station and a network link between the charging station and the cloud server. The network link may include a mobile device disposed between the charging station and the cloud server in which the mobile device facilitates communication between the charging station and the cloud server. In one implementation the mobile device may be a component of an electric vehicle. In one implementation the network link may include a wireless connection between the mobile device and the charging station. In one implementation the mobile device may connect to the charging station via a docking station. In one implementation the mobile device may be a cell phone. In one implementation the mobile device may use a telematics platform to communicate with the cloud server. In one implementation the mobile device may include a mobile application for communicating with the cloud server the charging station or both.

Further the system may include an electric power grid a first electric vehicle charging station connected to the power grid and a second electric vehicle charging station connected to the power grid. The first charging station may facilitate a charge transfer for an electric vehicle at the second charging station. In one implementation the first charging station may facilitate a charge transfer for a plurality of electric vehicles at a plurality of electric vehicle charging stations.

Described herein are implementations of various techniques of a method for managing an electric vehicle charging station. The method includes a cloud server or an electric vehicle charging station receiving a request for a charge transfer for an electric vehicle over a network link between the electric vehicle charging station and the cloud server. The network link has a mobile device disposed between the electrical vehicle charging station and the cloud server. The method may further include the cloud server sending a response to the charging station enabling the charge transfer. In one implementation the request may be received by the electric vehicle charging station or the cloud server. The method may include validating credit card information based on the request for the charge transfer. In one implementation the request may include an identification that specifies at least one of the following the electric vehicle charging station the mobile device the cloud server a user a vehicle a utility account and a communicating meter or communicating meter network. The method may include the following receiving the identification from the mobile device checking the identification against a plurality of available identifications to determine whether the identification is valid generating an access key if it is determined that the identification is valid and sending the access key over the network link. In one implementation the access key may be randomly generated. The method may include the following receiving the identification from the electric vehicle charging station checking the identification against a plurality of available identifications to determine whether the identification is valid generating an access key if it is determined that the identification is valid and sending the access key to the electric vehicle charging station. In one implementation the identification may be received from the electric vehicle. The method may include the following associating the identification with one or more charging parameters and sending the charging parameters along with the response. In one implementation the charging parameters may include at least one of the following a cable rating a duty cycle for a charging current a length of time for charging an electric vehicle a threshold level for aggregate electrical consumption a threshold level for instantaneous electrical consumption a maximum allowable charge rate a microgrid rating a plug rating a price of electricity a protection fuse rating a quantity of electricity stored within a microgrid a specific time for completing charging an electric vehicle a total cost of charging an electric vehicle an operational limit set by a utility an option for econocharging and an option for using green energy. In one implementation the response may include an access key for enabling the charge transfer. In one implementation the method may include determining whether the access key is valid or not. The method may include providing power to the electric vehicle if it is determined that the access key is valid. In one implementation the response may comprise one or more charging parameters. In one implementation the charging parameters may include at least one of the following a cable rating a duty cycle for a charging current a length of time for charging an electric vehicle a threshold level for aggregate electrical consumption a threshold level for instantaneous electrical consumption a maximum allowable charge rate a microgrid rating a plug rating a price of electricity a protection fuse rating a quantity of electricity stored within a microgrid a specific time for completing charging an electric vehicle a total cost of charging an electric vehicle an operational limit set by a utility an option for econocharging and an option for using green energy.

Described herein are implementations of various techniques of a method for managing an electric vehicle charging station. The method may include a mobile device receiving the request for a charge transfer for an electric vehicle from the charging station over a single networked link. The mobile device may then relay the request for the charge transfer to the cloud server. In one implementation the mobile device may be a component or module of the electric vehicle. In one implementation over the single networked link may include a wireless connection. In one implementation receiving the request may include receiving a signal over an audio jack.

Described herein are implementations of various techniques of a method for managing an electric vehicle charging station. The method may include a cloud server sending a request for a charge transfer to an electric vehicle charging station over a network link between the charging station and the cloud server. The network link has a mobile device disposed between the charging station and the cloud server. The cloud server may then receive a response enabling the charge transfer. In one implementation the mobile device may be a component or module of the electric vehicle. In one implementation the request may be sent by a cloud server to an electric vehicle charging station. The method may include validating credit card information based on the request for the charge transfer.

Described herein are implementations of various techniques of a method for managing an electric vehicle charging station. The method may include an electric vehicle charging station receiving a message from a cloud server over a network link between an electric vehicle charging station and the cloud server. The network link has a mobile device facilitating a communication between the electrical vehicle charging station and the cloud server. The charging station may send a response back to the cloud server through the mobile device. In one implementation the message may be received by the electric vehicle charging station. In one implementation the first mobile device may be a component or module of an electric vehicle. The method may include validating credit card information based on the message. In one implementation the mobile device may connect to the charging station via a docking station or a charging coupler. In one implementation the response may be sent to the cloud server via a second mobile device facilitating a second communication between the electrical vehicle charging station and the cloud server. In one implementation the message may include a request for a charge transfer and the response may include a report regarding the charge transfer. In one implementation receiving the message or sending the response may include synchronizing data between the charging station and the cloud server. In one implementation receiving the message or sending the response may include a secured connection having at least one of the following a virtual private network VPN and a secured socket layer SSL . In one implementation the message may include at least one of the following a grid demand instruction a grid demand schedule a session report billing data electricity price data fault data and usage data. Likewise the method may include the cloud server receiving a message over the network link from the charging station. The cloud server may then send a response to the charging station.

In one implementation the cloud server or the mobile device may receive identification from the charging station and then check the identification against other identifications to determine if the identification is valid. If the identification is valid the cloud server or the mobile device may then generate an access key based on the identification and send the access key over the network link to the charging station to enable the charge transfer.

Described herein are implementations of various techniques of a method for managing an electric vehicle charging station. The method may also include a mobile device of a first user receiving a message from an electric vehicle charging station. The message may be in regard to a charging transfer for an electric vehicle of a second user. The mobile device may relay the message to the cloud server. In one implementation the message may be relayed to the cloud server over a network link having the mobile device facilitating a communication between the electrical vehicle charging station and the cloud server. In one implementation the mobile device may be a component or module of the electric vehicle. In one implementation receiving the message or relaying the message may include synchronizing data between the charging station and the cloud server. In one implementation receiving the message or relaying the message may include a secured connection having at least one of the following a virtual private network VPN and a secured socket layer SSL . In one implementation the message may include at least one of the following a grid demand response instruction a grid demand response schedule a session report billing data electricity price data fault data and usage data.

Described herein are also implementations of various techniques of a method for reserving an electric vehicle charging station. The method may include providing a means for communicating between a first user who is charging an electric vehicle at an electric vehicle charging station and a second user with a reserved time for charging an electric vehicle at the charging station. The method may include facilitating a request from the first user to the second user to extend an amount of time for the first user at the charging station over the second user s reserved time. The method may then facilitate a response from the second user. In one implementation the means for communicating may include at least one of the following short message service SMS text messaging email digital voice communication plain old telephone service an Internet website instant messaging push notifications pop up messaging a chat room and an Internet forum. In one implementation facilitating the request or facilitating the response may include facilitating a payment to or from the first user or the second user. In one implementation the response may include a notification of acceptance or rejection of the request.

In another implementation the request may be from the second user to occupy the charging station currently occupied by the first user. In one implementation the means for communicating may include at least one of the following short message service SMS text messaging email digital voice communication plain old telephone service instant messaging push notifications pop up messaging an Internet website a chat room and an Internet forum. In this implementation facilitating the request or facilitating the response may include facilitating a payment to or from the first user or the second user. In this implementation the response may include a notification of acceptance or rejection of the request. In this implementation the response may include a reservation ticket for using the charging station. In this implementation the reservation ticket may include at least one of the following a date a time an amount of time remaining on the reservation ticket a valuation of the reservation ticket and a designated electric vehicle charging station.

Described herein are also implementations of various techniques of a method for determining an availability of an electric vehicle charging station. The method may include determining the availability of the charging station from geolocation information. Geolocation information may be received by the cloud server or another device regarding a mobile device. The mobile device s geolocation information may then be compared with the geolocation information of an electric vehicle charging station to determine the distance between the mobile device and the charging station. Based on the distance the availability of the charging station may be determined. In one implementation receiving the first geolocation information may include detecting a connection of the mobile device at a docking station on the charging station. In one implementation receiving the first geolocation information may include detecting a wireless connection of the mobile device. In one implementation the wireless connection may include one of the following Bluetooth Near field communication NFC and WiFi. In one implementation the first or second geolocation information may include readings from at least one of the following GPS sonar multilateration RFID and an induction coil sensor. In one implementation determining the availability of the charging station may include detecting the mobile device arriving at the charging station. In one implementation determining the availability of the charging station may include detecting the mobile device leaving the charging station. In one implementation determining the availability of the charging station may include detecting the speed of the mobile device approaching the charging station the speed being based on the first geolocation information. In one implementation determining the availability of the charging station may include estimating the time of arrival of the mobile device based on the distance. The method may include sending a notification to a user regarding the availability. In one implementation the notification may include one of an amount of time before the charging station becomes available and a number of available slots remaining at the charging station. In one implementation the slots may be time slots or vehicle slots. The method may include determining a navigation route between the mobile device and the charging station using a third geolocation information regarding a geographical feature. In one implementation the geographical feature may be one of the following a road a city a radio tower a physical landmark and a commercial establishment. In one implementation the route may be based on the speed the mobile device is approaching the charging station and where the speed may be based on the first geolocation information.

Described herein are also implementations of various techniques of a method for managing an electric vehicle charging station. The method may include receiving geolocation information regarding a mobile device and then comparing the geolocation information with the geolocation information of a charging station. The method may then determine the distance between the mobile device and the charging station using both geolocation information. The method may then include a cloud server or a charging station sending a message to the mobile device based on the distance. In one implementation the message may include a receipt of a charging transaction a remaining time of the charging transaction an inquiry to a user as to whether the charging transaction has terminated or combinations thereof. In one implementation the first or second geolocation information may include readings from at least one of the following GPS sonar multilateration RFID and an induction coil sensor. In one implementation determining the distance between the mobile device and the charging station may include detecting the speed of the mobile device approaching the charging station the speed being based on the first geolocation information. In one implementation the message may be sent using a second mobile device. In one implementation receiving the first geolocation information may include detecting a connection of the mobile device at a docking station on the charging station. In one implementation receiving the first geolocation information may include detecting a wireless connection of the mobile device. In one implementation the wireless connection may include one of the following Bluetooth Near field communication NFC and WiFi.

Described herein are also implementations of various techniques of a method for managing an electric vehicle charging station. The method may include an electric vehicle charging station receiving a charging control signal from a cell phone or other mobile device over a single networked link between an electric vehicle charging station and the mobile device. The charging control signal may adjust a parameter that is used to draw electric power from the charging station and the charging station adjusts the charge transfer based on the adjusted parameter. In one implementation the single networked link may include a wireless connection between the cell phone and the charging station. In one implementation the network link may include connecting the cell phone to a docking station at the charging station through one of the following an audio jack and a universal service bus. In one implementation the parameter may be one of the following a battery temperature of an electric vehicle a charging current a current battery charge of an electric vehicle a length of time since an electric vehicle began charging a price of electricity a time of day a time until an electric vehicle s next use a weather reading and an option for econocharging. In one implementation the parameter may be one of the following a charging cable rating a circuit protection rating a duty cycle for a charging current a future power draw from an electric vehicle a threshold level for aggregate electrical consumption a threshold level for instantaneous electrical consumption a local aggregate energy consumption a maximum allowable charge rate a minimum allowable charge rate a microgrid rating a present power draw from an electric vehicle a protection fuse rating a quantity of electricity stored within a microgrid a total maximum allowable load on a microgrid an operational limit set by a grid utility and an option for using green energy. Likewise the method may also include the charging station receiving a charging control signal for enabling or disabling a charge transfer at the charging station. The method may then include the charging station enabling or disabling the charge transfer based on the charging control signal. In one implementation the single networked link may include a connection over an audio jack between the cell phone and the charging station.

Described herein are also implementations of various techniques of a method for managing an electric vehicle charging station. The method may include a cell phone or another mobile device sending a charging control signal over a single networked link to the charging station. A charge transfer at the charging station may then be enabled or disabled based on the charging control signal. The method may then include the mobile device receiving a response that the charge transfer has been enabled or disabled. In one implementation the charging control signal may be based on a communication with a grid utility. In one implementation the single networked link may include a wireless connection between the cell phone and the charging station.

Described herein are also implementations of various techniques of a method for managing an electric vehicle charging station. The method may include a cell phone sending a charging control signal to an electric vehicle charging station over a single networked link between the electric vehicle charging station and the cell phone. The charging control signal adjusts a parameter used to draw electric power from the charging station. The cell phone may then receive a response from the charging station that the charge transfer has been adjusted based on the adjusted parameter. In one implementation the charging control signal may be based on a communication with a grid utility. In one implementation the network link may include a wireless connection between the mobile device and the charging station. In one implementation the network link may include a connection over an audio jack between the mobile device and the charging station. In one implementation the parameter may be one of the following a battery temperature of an electric vehicle a charging current a current battery charge of an electric vehicle a length of time since an electric vehicle began charging a price of electricity a time of day a time until an electric vehicle s next use a weather reading and an option for econocharging. In one implementation the parameter may be one of the following a charging cable rating a circuit protection rating a current duty cycle for a charging current a future power draw from an electric vehicle a threshold level for aggregate electrical consumption a threshold level for instantaneous electrical consumption a local aggregate energy consumption a maximum allowable charge rate a minimum allowable charge rate a microgrid rating a present power draw from an electric vehicle a protection fuse rating a quantity of electricity stored within a microgrid a total maximum allowable load on a microgrid an operational limit set by a grid utility and an option for using green energy.

Described herein are also implementations of various techniques of a method for managing an electric vehicle charging station. The method may include an electric vehicle charging station receiving a charge control signal from a server. The charging control signal adjusts the duty cycle of a charging current. The charging station may then enable a charge transfer based on the charging current with the adjusted duty cycle. In one implementation the server may be a cloud server. In one implementation the server may be a local metering network server. In one implementation the duty cycle may be determined by a total number of electric vehicles connected to a power grid. In one implementation the charging current may be a pulse width modulated PWM signal. In one implementation the duty cycle may be increased or decreased incrementally over a specified timeframe. The method may include adjusting the duty cycle based on at least one of the following a battery temperature of an electric vehicle a charging current a current battery charge of an electric vehicle a length of time since an electric vehicle began charging a price of electricity a time of day a time until an electric vehicle s next use a weather reading and an option for econocharging. The method may include adjusting the duty cycle based on at least one of the following parameters a charging cable rating a circuit protection rating a current duty cycle for a charging current a future power draw from an electric vehicle a threshold level for aggregate electrical consumption a threshold level for instantaneous electrical consumption a local aggregate energy consumption a maximum allowable charge rate a minimum allowable charge rate a microgrid rating a present power draw from an electric vehicle a protection fuse rating a quantity of electricity stored within a microgrid a total maximum allowable load on a microgrid an operational limit set by a grid utility and an option for using green energy.

Described herein are also implementations of various techniques of a method for managing an electric vehicle charging station. The method may include sending a charging control signal to an electric vehicle charging station where the charging control signal adjusts the duty cycle of a charging current used in a charge transfer at the electric vehicle charging station. The method may then include receiving a response from the charging station. In one implementation a cloud server sends the charging control signal. In another implementation a local metering network sends the charging control signal. In one implementation the charging control signal may be sent from a cloud server. In one implementation the charging control signal may be over a local metering network. In one implementation the duty cycle may be determined by a total number of electric vehicles connected to a power grid. In one implementation the charging current may be a pulse width modulated PWM signal. In one implementation the duty cycle may be increased or decreased incrementally over a specified timeframe. In one implementation the charging control signal may be determined based on at least one of the following a battery temperature of an electric vehicle a charging current a current battery charge of an electric vehicle a length of time since an electric vehicle began charging a price of electricity a time of day a time until an electric vehicle s next use a weather reading and an option for econocharging. In one implementation the charging control signal may be determined based on at least one of the following a charging cable rating a circuit protection rating a duty cycle for a charging current a future power draw from an electric vehicle a threshold level for aggregate electrical consumption a threshold level for instantaneous electrical consumption a local aggregate energy consumption a maximum allowable charge rate a maximum allowable charge rate a microgrid rating a present power draw from an electric vehicle a protection fuse rating a quantity of electricity stored within a microgrid a total maximum allowable load on a microgrid an operational limit set by a grid utility and an option for using green energy.

Described herein are also implementations of various techniques of a method for managing an electric vehicle charging station. The method may include sending charging controls signal between electric vehicle charging stations for adjusting a charge transfer for an electric vehicle connected to one of the charging stations. The charging station sending the charging control signal may receive a response from the charging station receiving the charging control signal. In one implementation the charging control signal may enable or disable the charge transfer at the second charging station. In one implementation the charging control signal may be sent to a plurality of electric vehicle charging stations. In one implementation the charging control signal may determine a plurality of charging currents for the plurality of charging stations. In one implementation the charging control signal may be based on a communication with a grid utility. In one implementation the charging control signal may be determined based on at least one of the following a battery temperature of an electric vehicle a charging current a current battery charge of an electric vehicle a length of time since an electric vehicle began charging a price of electricity a time of day a time until an electric vehicle s next use a weather reading and an option for econocharging. In one implementation the charging control signal may be determined based on at least one of the following a charging cable rating a circuit protection rating a duty cycle for a charging current a future power draw from an electric vehicle a threshold level for aggregate electrical consumption a threshold level for instantaneous electrical consumption a local aggregate energy consumption a maximum allowable charge rate a maximum allowable charge rate a microgrid rating a present power draw from an electric vehicle a protection fuse rating a quantity of electricity stored within a microgrid a total maximum allowable load on a microgrid an operational limit set by a grid utility and an option for using green energy.

Described herein are also implementations of various techniques of a method for managing an electric vehicle charging station. The method may include a first electric vehicle charging station receiving a charging control signal from a second electric vehicle charging station. The charging control signal may then adjust a charge transfer for an electric vehicle connected to the first charging station. In one implementation the charging control signal may enable or disable the charge transfer at the first charging station. In one implementation the first charging station may receive a plurality of charging control signals from a plurality of electric vehicle charging stations. In one implementation a current for charging the electric vehicle may be determined from the plurality of charging control signals from the plurality of charging stations. In one implementation the charging control signal may be based on a communication with a grid utility. In one implementation the charging control signal may be determined based on at least one of the following a battery temperature of an electric vehicle a charging current a current battery charge of an electric vehicle a length of time since an electric vehicle began charging a price of electricity a time of day a time until an electric vehicle s next use a weather reading and an option for econocharging. In one implementation the charging control signal may be determined based on at least one of the following a charging cable rating a circuit protection rating a duty cycle for a charging current a future power draw from an electric vehicle a threshold level for aggregate electrical consumption a threshold level for instantaneous electrical consumption a local aggregate energy consumption a maximum allowable charge rate a maximum allowable charge rate a microgrid rating a present power draw from an electric vehicle a protection fuse rating a quantity of electricity stored within a microgrid a total maximum allowable load on a microgrid an operational limit set by a grid utility and an option for using green energy.

Furthermore the method may include a cloud server or electric vehicle charging station receiving a request from a first user for placement in a charging station queue. The cloud server or charging station may then assign the first user a place in the charging station queue. The cloud server or charging station may then provide a charging space at the charging station to a second user in the charging station queue where the second user has previously been assigned a place in the charging station queue. The method may include notifying the first user that the charging space is available. The method may include receiving a request from the first user to be notified when a charging space is available. The method may include sending a request for acceptance or rejection of the charging space to the first user and receiving a response accepting or rejecting the request by the first user. In one implementation accepting the request may place a hold on the charging space that prevents a different user from using the charging space. In one implementation rejecting the request may include providing the charging space to a subsequent user. In one implementation rejecting the request may include notifying a subsequent user that the charging space is available. In one implementation providing the charging space may include providing the charging space at any charging station amongst a group of charging stations in a geographic location. In one implementation the charging station queue may have n total places in the queue and the first user may be assigned the nth place in the charging station queue.

The above referenced summary section is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description section. The summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The discussion below is directed to certain specific implementations. It is to be understood that the discussion below is only for the purpose of enabling a person with ordinary skill in the art to make and use any subject matter defined now or later by the patent claims found in any issued patent herein.

Reference will now be made in detail to various implementations examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and figures. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the claimed invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components circuits and networks have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the claimed invention.

It will also be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first object or step could be termed a second object or step and similarly a second object or step could be termed a first object or step without departing from the scope of the invention. The first object or step and the second object or step are both objects or steps respectively but they are not to be considered the same object or step.

The terminology used in the description herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the claimed invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms includes including comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in response to detecting depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined or if a stated condition or event is detected may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or upon detecting the stated condition or event or in response to detecting the stated condition or event depending on the context.

Electric vehicle charging stations or electric vehicle supply equipment EVSE provide an electric vehicle with the capability to recharge the vehicle s battery or energy storage device. An electric vehicle may drive up to a charging station connect to the charging station and receive power from the electricity grid. Similar to the functionality offered by a gas station a commercial charging station may need to provide access control status updates charging management and usage data.

Certain terms are defined throughout this description as they are first used while certain other terms used in this description are defined below 

A cloud server is a central server or backend located remotely from the charging station and connected by means of a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. A cloud server may communicate with a charging station to manage and authorize charge transfers at charging stations.

A mobile device may be a cell phone an iPad a Personal Digital Assistant a personal computer a component module of an electric vehicle a device utilizing a telematics service such as one for OnStar or the like.

A session report is a detailed account of a charging transaction at a charging station which may include billing information and usage data such as charging duration electricity price data energy dispensed fault information and time information. A session report may be converted into a non human readable format where it may be exchanged in the background. A session report in this non human readable format is called a session info key.

A charging transaction is a commercial exchange between a user and a charging station or cloud server that enables an electric vehicle to receive a charge transfer.

A grid utility may be a power company energy provider a remote server responsible for managing an electrical power grid or other entity that may determine the cost or quantity of electricity along an electrical power grid.

The mobile device provides a connection to the cloud server . Intermittent connections such as wireless network connections are depicted using arrows with segmented lines. Unbroken arrows may depict a hardwired connection such as a connection between an electric vehicle and a charging station over a charging coupler. The connection to the cloud server may utilize a wireless method such as WiFi Cellular technology e.g. CDMA GPRS HSDPA EDGE LTE etc. or another wireless backhaul.

Additionally the mobile device provides a connection also called a single networked link to the charging station . In this manner the mobile device may act as a network intermediary for facilitating communication between the charging station and the cloud server . The connection between the mobile device and the charging station may be a wireless connection over one of many wireless protocols such as Bluetooth WiFi Near Field Communication NFC Radio Frequency Identification RFID or another method. The connection may also be a wired connection between the mobile device and the charging station . For a wired connection the mobile device may connect to a docking station over an audio plug or audio jack or a universal service bus USB or using another wired method such as over a charging coupler. A charging coupler may use power line communication to provide communication between the mobile device and the charging station .

In another implementation the mobile device the electric vehicle or the charging station may utilize an alternate means of communication with the cloud server by using a telematics service or another communication method. In the case of in vehicle telematics additional data that may not necessarily be available to the mobile device such as the state of charge of the battery of the electric vehicle may be transmitted to the cloud server .

Where a telematics service is being utilized a telematics platform may aggregate data from various telematics services and use the data to support features in the cloud server the mobile device or the charging station . The telematics platform may track battery status on the electric vehicle geolocation of the electric vehicle or mobile device any error codes relating to the electric vehicle or mobile device and any other relevant information. Error codes may be used to alert the electric vehicle s manufacturer or prime the charging station to reduce or stop charge if there is a potentially dangerous error on the electric vehicle. This method of information management may be used periodically at specific intervals designated times or any time. For example the mobile device and the cloud server may notify each other of particular events through the telematics platform. In one implementation where the electric vehicle s battery is low the cloud server or charging station may use this data from the telematics platform to forecast an energy load or reserve a charging space for use by the electric vehicle .

Where the charging station has no alternative network connection to the cloud server outside of the mobile device the mobile device may be responsible for sending or relaying requests for electric vehicle charge transfers charging parameters or updates to existing charging parameters between the cloud server and the charging station . Data stored on the charging station may be received or updated over the connection with the mobile device . The cloud server may receive identification information session reports of user charging transactions charging station status updates and other data over the connection with the mobile device .

The electric vehicle may have a connection to the charging station . Further the connection may include a charging coupler for transmitting charging current to the electric vehicle s battery or communicating with the electric vehicle . Likewise the connection may be wireless and use any wireless protocols such as WiFi.

The user may input instructions and data into the mobile device over a user interface on the mobile device . The user interface on the mobile device may provide charging information related to a charge transfer such as charging status reports for the electric vehicle that may include how long until the user s charge transfer is complete whether there are any complications in the charging process the current cost of a charging transaction and other relevant information for the user .

The charging station may have a user interface where the user may input data into the charging station . The user may key in data directly through the user interface at the charging station connect a flash drive a CD ROM or another removable data storage medium to the charging station present an RFID card make a selection via keypad keyboard or touch screen or directly use the charging station without prior activation from the mobile device or cloud server .

The user interface may have a connection to a computing system . The computing system may contain a central processing unit CPU read only memory ROM random access memory RAM and a data storage . While only one CPU is illustrated in some implementations the computing system may include more than one CPU. The data storage may be an embedded chip on the computing system off chip or both. The ROM and the data storage may be volatile or nonvolatile and removable or non removable storage of the computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing system . Data storage may further include RAM ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store information and which can be accessed by the computing system .

The computing system may have a connection to a clock a connection to a debug interface a connection to the network interface and a connection to an EMeter . The clock is a component that maintains the system clock for the charging station . The clock may be synchronized with a cloud server. The debug interface is a component that provides access to a device and may be either external or internal to the charging station for the purpose of manipulating or monitoring the charging station . The device may be a system that is inaccessible to a regular user. The EMeter is a component that measures energy supplied to the electric vehicle through the charging coupler . The computing system may have a connection to a control pilot as well as a connection to a ground fault circuit interrupter GFCI . The control pilot is a component that communicates with the electric vehicle using the charging coupler and exchanges signals and triggers to control the charging state. However the control pilot and the electric vehicle may communicate wirelessly or by another wired method as well. The GFCI is protection equipment that serves as a safety feature to detect a leakage current to the ground

At step the mobile device connects to the charging station over a single networked link. For example the connection may be performed by a wired or wireless method or both. In one implementation the mobile device may connect to the charging station via the docking station which may be part of the charging station or separate. For purposes of this application a network link and a networked link may be used interchangeably. A single networked link is defined as having no intermediary cloud server or remote server between the mobile device and the charging station . For communication over a single networked link the mobile device serves as a communication intermediary between the cloud server and the charging station . Because the charging station may not have a hard wired or other method for connecting to a cloud server or a remote server the charging station can utilize the mobile device as a means to transmit information back and forth with the cloud server or a remote server. This setup may make practical sense where the charging station is isolated from a communication network i.e. without phone lines a power line communication network etc. or for financial or other reasons such as to reduce hardware or software on a charging station.

Furthermore where the charging station includes a local area network it may be unnecessary that the mobile device communicate directly to the charging station . For instance the mobile device may communicate over the single networked link through external components such as wireless routers to the charging station .

At step the mobile device connects to the cloud server . The connection may be facilitated using a wireless method such as a WiFi Cellular technology e.g. CDMA GPRS HSDPA EDGE LTE etc. or another wireless backhaul. In one implementation the mobile device may connect to an existing network infrastructure such as the OnStar service or another telematics service in order to communicate with the cloud server . The connection in step may be a one time event or involve periodic communication between the mobile device and the cloud server .

At step the mobile device receives a message from the charging station . The message may include a grid demand instruction a grid demand schedule identification information a session report billing data electricity price data fault data usage data a request to enable or disable charge transfer charging parameters updates to the charging station or other data or information pertaining to the charging of the electric vehicle .

At step the mobile device relays a message to the cloud server . The message may include a duplicate copy of the message received from the charging station a message modified or adjusted by the mobile device or an entirely unrelated message from the one received by the mobile device in step .

At step the mobile device receives a message from the cloud server . This message in step may be a response to the message from step or be an unrelated message. The message may include an access key charging parameters authorization instructions updates from the cloud server for the mobile device or charging station or another relevant message. In one implementation the message may be sent from a telematics platform.

At step the mobile device relays a message to the charging station over a single networked link. The message in step to the charging station may comprise a duplicate copy of the message from the cloud server in step a message modified or adjusted by the mobile device or an entirely unrelated message from the one received by the mobile device in step .

At step the mobile device disconnects from the charging station . In one implementation the mobile device may be removed from the proximity of the charging station while the electric vehicle is charged by the charging station . The electric vehicle s charge transfer may start continue or finish while the mobile device is away from the charging station . In one implementation the mobile device may never return to the charging station and the charging station may perform all functions necessary for the charge transfer without communication with the cloud server or wait until another mobile device connects to the charging station .

At step the process starts i.e. the mobile device connects to the charging station . These steps are similar to steps and are described in more detail with reference to steps . The mobile device may be accompanied by a mobile application Mobile App which initiates the connection. The Mobile App may also be used to connect to the cloud server . Also the connection may utilize power line communication over a charging coupler between the electric vehicle and the charging station .

At step a network link forms between the charging station and the cloud server with the mobile device being disposed between the charging station and the cloud server . Communication between network components may be secured via common industry methods of encryption such as over a Virtual Private Network VPN Secured Socket Layer SSL or other secured channel communication methods.

In some implementation communication exchanges between the mobile device and the charging station the charging station and the cloud server or the mobile device and the cloud server may be encrypted and encoded. This encryption is to prevent unauthorized snooping of keys that may contain activation codes and usage information. Because the keys are in a non readable format and might be exchanged in the background the security risks are low in the instance when someone else other than the user retrieves and sends a session report to the cloud server .

At step the charging station and the cloud server synchronize data over the network link. The charging station may upload session reports to the cloud server or download the latest demand response schedule from the cloud server during the synchronization phase. The demand response schedule may describe the charging parameters smart charging instructions and a timeline for charging electric vehicles at the charging station . This synchronization step may include sharing or matching settings between the cloud server and the charging station updating software on the charging station performing tests to insure data integrity or appropriate hardware functionality for charging electric vehicles and any other actions suitable for the continued quality performance of the charging station . Because the communication between the cloud server and charging station may be intermittent it is possible that a charging station which has been out of contact with the cloud server for a significant period of time may have inaccurate pricing information settings or a backlog of system data or session reports. These information may need to be sent to the cloud server .

In one implementation data and software on the mobile device may need to be synchronized with data or software on the cloud server . As such the mobile device may check for an active data connection to the cloud server on a regular interval e.g. daily . If a data connection is available the mobile device may connect to the cloud server . Otherwise the mobile device may notify the user to activate a data connection and attempt to reconnect. If no connection persists the mobile device may become deactivated either by software or hardware on the mobile device . A deactivated mobile device may not initiate a charge transfer at a charging station.

During synchronization the user s account linked to the mobile device may be examined for accuracy sufficient credit balance a valid credit card accompanying the account whether the account is valid and active and other factors. If the user s account is found to be valid and active the cloud server may send an instruction to the mobile device to keep the device active for charging the electric vehicle . If the account is not valid or not active the cloud server may send an instruction to deactivate or prevent the mobile device for use in charging the electric vehicle .

In another implementation the synchronization performed in step may be done through a telematics platform. For example the electric vehicle may utilize telematics services to facilitate the synchronization between the charging station and the cloud server but other telematics devices besides an electric vehicle are contemplated as well.

At step the charging station sends an identification and request for charging the electric vehicle to the cloud server . In one implementation the identification corresponds to the specific charging station . However in some implementations the identification may correspond to the mobile device the cloud server an electric vehicle a cluster or cloud of charging stations the user the user s account a utility account a communicating meter a communicating meter network a combination of these or some other relevant part of the charging system .

In other implementations the identification may be stored locally on the mobile device or the cloud server or another part of the charging system not disclosed. The request for charging the electric vehicle may be a general request or may contain specific parameters describing the charge transfer.

In another implementation the cloud server may receive the identification from the electric vehicle . Where the connection in step is over a charging coupler the identification may be sent through power line communication PLC to the electric vehicle and forwarded to the cloud server . Likewise the electric vehicle may transmit the identification to the cloud server through a telematics platform.

Further the user may identify the charging station physically on site and input this identification into his mobile device . In this implementation the mobile device would send the keyed in identification to the cloud server for verification. Likewise the user may say aloud the appropriate identification into a microphone. Another implementation involves the user placing the mobile device next to the charging station in order to exchange audio signals such as through dual tone multi frequency DTMF signaling. The identification may also be stored on the mobile device and using a mobile application may select the charging station among a list of charging stations based on any number of location parameters such as the state city zip code street or other location information.

In one implementation the charging station may freely broadcast its identification to any mobile device over a wireless or wired connection. By freely broadcasting an identification a charging station may transmit a signal similar to a public SSID on a wireless router to any mobile or other device within range alerting users to the existence or availability of the charging station . Likewise the charging station may require a trigger or passcode before providing its identification.

At step the cloud server checks the identification against a plurality of identifications to determine whether the identification is valid. The identification may be a permanent value or be periodically changed based on time or location. The cloud server may then check the identification with either previous current or other identifications of the same charging station the mobile device or the cloud server to determine whether the identification is valid. The identification may be an actual value or correspond to an algorithm.

In one implementation the identification may also describe a specific cloud or remote server. In an instance where several cloud servers or remote servers are being utilized within a network the identification may direct the mobile device to communicate with a particular cloud server or remote server for a specific message or request.

If the identification is not valid the user responsible for requesting the charge transfer may be notified of a problem or the charge transfer may be denied. Otherwise the user may receive a notification that the charge transfer is allowed.

In one implementation the cloud server validates credit card or other payment information based on the request from the charging station . The credit card information may be sent from the mobile device or the charging station or be stored locally on the cloud server .

At step if it is determined that the request and identification are valid then the cloud server generates a unique access key based on the identification. Alternatively the mobile device or another component of the charging system may generate the access key. The access key may be randomly generated part of a pseudorandom sequence or a designated key that may periodically be changed or updated. Where no connection is available the mobile device may be programmed to generate an access key or a special access key may be stored for these types of situations. The access key is used for authenticating the user activating the charging station and may contain charging parameters or charging preferences or charging session information embedded in the key.

At step the cloud server sends a response the access key and charging parameters over the network link to the charging station . Upon receiving the access key the mobile device relays the access key to the charging station to enable the electric vehicle s charge transfer. The response may include limitations on the future charge transfer a time period where the access key may be valid a restatement of data included in the earlier request or other information. The cloud server may send the access key to the mobile device or to the charging station via an alternate network path.

The charging parameters sent by the cloud server and used throughout the charging system may include the following a cable rating of a charging coupler a duty cycle for a charging current a length of time for charging an electric vehicle a threshold level for aggregate electrical consumption a maximum allowable charge rate a microgrid rating a plug rating a price of electricity a protection fuse rating a quantity of electricity stored within a microgrid a specified time for completing the charging of an electric vehicle a total cost of charging an electric vehicle an operational limit set by a grid utility or other energy provider a battery temperature of an electric vehicle a current battery charge of an electric vehicle a time of day a time until an electric vehicle s next use a weather reading a future power draw from an electric vehicle a level for instantaneous electric consumption a present power draw from an electric vehicle a quantity of electricity stored within a microgrid an option for econocharging and an option for using green energy. Econocharging allows a user to reduce the overall cost of a charging transaction for an electric vehicle by scheduling the charge transfer around times or days where electricity is sold at a lower price than another time. Green energy refers to electricity generated from wind turbines solar power hydroelectric power or another renewable energy resource. Likewise one or more charging parameters may be associated with a particular identification or user account.

At step in response to receiving the response the access key and the charging parameters from the cloud server the charging station may check the access key against an algorithm or stored information to determine whether the received access key is valid. The charging station may store specific access keys for specific periods of time to determine validity. If the access key is determined by the charging station to be valid a charging current may be enabled for the electric vehicle .

At step the charging station may adjust the electric vehicle s charge transfer based on the received charging parameters. For example the charging station may adjust the default charge settings using the new charging parameters or simply replace old parameters values with the new ones. The charging station may adjust the charge transfer throughout the actual charging process or before charging begins. The charging station may also intermittently receive new charging parameters or periodically check for current charging parameters to see if the charging transfer needs to be adjusted accordingly.

At step the mobile device disconnects from the charging station . The mobile device may leave the charging station s proximity while the electric vehicle remains charging. The mobile device may never return to the charging station but the control pilot may continue to perform all functions necessary for charge transfer. Where the charge transfer ends without fully completing a charge transfer or because of some unexpected result the charging station may start a new charge transfer without communicating with the cloud server . Likewise the charging station may wait until another mobile device connects to the charging station in order to obtain a new access key or authorization for a charge transfer.

At step the user connects the mobile device to the charging station . At step the cloud server and the charging station synchronize data over the network link facilitated by the mobile device . At optional step the charging station sends a request for charge transfer to the mobile device . This step may be optional because the mobile device may initiate the request itself. At step the mobile device sends a request for charge transfer to the cloud server . At step the charging station sends identification corresponding to the specific charging station to the mobile device . At step the mobile device sends the identification to the cloud server . At step the cloud server checks the identification to determine whether the identification is valid. At step the cloud server generates an access key. At step the cloud server sends a response to the request for charge transfer to the mobile device . At step the mobile device sends a response to the request for charge transfer to the charging station . At step the cloud server sends the access key to the mobile device . At step the mobile device sends the access key to the charging station . At step the cloud server sends charging parameters to the mobile device .

At step the mobile device sends charging parameters to the charging station . At step the charging station adjusts charging parameters for the charge transfer. Types of charging parameters and regulating the charging of an electric vehicle through adjusting charging parameters will be described in more detail with reference to . Although the response the access key and the charging parameters have been described as being sent sequentially in some implementations they may be sent all at once i.e. simultaneously.

At optional step the mobile device sends a charging control signal to the charging station . Further the charging control signal may be sent to the control pilot before during or after the charge transfer. Charging control signals may provide instructions for the charging station as well as constraints or requirements for the control pilot . These constraints or requirements may correspond to charging parameters as noted above in step . Likewise the mobile device may not send a charging control signal and instead the control pilot may have various actions predetermined by the charging station s hardware or software.

At step the charging station starts charging the electric vehicle . At optional step the user may disconnect the mobile device from the charging station .

At step the charging station stops charging the electric vehicle. In one implementation there may be a delay of a predefined interval before deactivating the control pilot so that in case of accidental unplugging or the user changes his mind the charging station may resume charging without having to repeat any previous steps of method .

At optional step the charging station may send a session report involving the previous charge transfer through a different mobile device to the cloud server . Alternatively if the mobile device has not been disconnected from the charging station or the user reconnects the mobile device the session report may be sent through that mobile connection. The session report may be converted into a session info key before being transmitted to the cloud server . This approach of using another user s mobile device to communication with the cloud server is described in more detail below with reference to .

This method nicknamed the piggybacked approach may prove useful where an electric vehicle s user initiates a charging transaction leaves the charging station without a mobile device and returns to pick up his electric vehicle without his mobile device. Under these circumstances the charging station may be unable to connect to the cloud server and would need to wait for another opportunity to upload the charge transfer s session report.

At step the first mobile device initiates a charging transaction for the electric vehicle and then subsequently the mobile device leaves the charging station . The user of the electric vehicle may leave his car parked at the charging station overnight or go shopping or engage in any other activity that may cause him to leave his charge transfer unattended. The charge transfer may also finish before the user returns to pick up his electric vehicle and the cloud server may find it valuable to receive the session report associated with the charging transaction as soon as possible.

At step the second mobile device facilitates communication between the charging station and the cloud server regarding the first mobile device s charging transaction. This step may include creating a network link between the charging station and the cloud server through the second mobile device similar to how the method was performed in . The network link may include the single networked link between the charging station and the second mobile device and the network connection between the second mobile device and the cloud server .

In one implementation where the charging station needs to communicate to the telematics platform without an independent connection at the charging station the charging station may use the method of communication facilitated in step to accomplish this task.

At step the charging station sends session report to the cloud server through the second mobile device . Besides a session report the charging station may upload data charging parameters charging control signals or other information regarding the first mobile device s charging transaction.

In one implementation the charging station may also use this opportunity to download data charging parameters updates or other information for use in modifying an ongoing charge transfer for an electric vehicle without a corresponding mobile device. The cloud server may also need to send the charging station instructions to reserve specific charging spaces at the charging station .

In another implementation the second user may transmit a request to the cloud server using his mobile device to be assigned a place in a charging station queue for a future available charging space. The charging station queue may be a table or a database that determines the order that users may receive available charging spaces. For example the charging station queue may be a list of users where the highest user on the list is the next user that receives the next available charging space at a charging station or amongst a group of charging stations in a geographic area. When the second user reaches the top of the queue and the charging space becomes or is about to become available the second user may receive a notification from the cloud server that the charging space is available or will soon be available for a charging session. The notification from the cloud server may contain a request for acceptance or rejection of the charging space . The second user may transmit a response to the cloud server accepting or rejecting the available charging space . If an available charging station is accepted by the second user a temporary hold is placed on the available charging space to prevent a different user from occupying the available charging space until the second user arrives. If an available charging station is rejected by the second user a notification is sent by the cloud server to the subsequent user in the charging station queue. For more information about charging station queues see step in .

At step a first user occupies a charging space at the charging station with an electric vehicle . Each charging station may be divided into several charging spaces where each charging space has room for an electric vehicle to attach to a charging coupler. In some implementations a charging space may be open for anyone to drive up and use the space to charge their electric vehicle. On the other hand charging spaces may include a physical enclosure that limits access only to authorized users. The first user may obtain access to the charging space through communicating with the charging station either through the user interface by connecting the mobile device to the docking station or through a wireless connection.

At step a second user obtains a reservation ticket for charging an electric vehicle at the charging station . While the second user may obtain the reservation ticket after the first user begins charging the electric vehicle or occupying the charging space this event may have happened simultaneously or at an earlier time than steps . The reservation ticket may specify a date and time when the user may charge an electric vehicle at a designated charging station. The ticket may include a time interval e.g. minutes hours or days. In one implementation the second user may receive the reservation ticket through a mobile application on his mobile device or through a website connected to the cloud server . This reservation ticket may be stored digitally on a user s mobile device without the need for verification from the cloud server . Likewise reservation tickets may be recorded and tracked on a database at the cloud server . Reservation tickets may be associated with user accounts specific electric vehicles or specific charging stations. In another implementation a user may receive a physical reservation ticket that enables the charging of an electric vehicle at a charging station without a mobile device.

In another implementation the reservation ticket may correspond to a place in a charging station queue where the charging station queue determines what user receives access to the next available charging space. The charging station queue may be for a single electric vehicle charging station or a group of charging stations in a geographic location. Likewise the initial place that a reservation ticket is assigned in the charging station queue may be determined by first in time first in right a priority system giving preferences to specific users or classes of users or a weighting system taking into account such factors as the time the reservation ticket was made additional financial compensation paid for the reservation ticket outside the regular price the expected time a vehicle will occupy the available charging space the preferred location of the user or any other factors. In another instance there may be n total places in the queue where n is a positive integer and the most recently obtained reservation ticket is for the nth place. In another implementation the reservation ticket may contain a request by a user to be notified when a charging space becomes available.

When a charging space becomes available the next user in the charging station queue may receive a notification from the cloud server that a charging space is available for use. The user with the reservation ticket may accept or reject the available charging space in a response back to the cloud server . If the offer for the available charging space is accepted a temporary hold is placed on the charging station preventing other users from occupying the available charging space until the user with the reservation ticket arrives. If the user rejects the offer to use the available charging space the user may receive an offer for the next available charging space be removed from the charging station queue or allocated a new place in the charging station queue based on the same or different weighting factors for determining the initial place in the charging station queue. If the offer is rejected the subsequent user corresponding to the reservation ticket with the next place in the charging station queue may receive a subsequent offer for the available charging space.

In another implementation instead of reserving specific times at charging stations the reservation ticket may correspond to an available charging window at individual or multiple charging stations. During a charging window the owner of the reservation ticket does not have a mandatory right to a charging space at a charging station. If a charging space is available he merely has priority over a user without a reservation ticket during that charging window. Charging windows may be for minutes hours or days.

In yet another implementation the reservation ticket may include an amount of charge transfer allowed from the charging station . This method of using reservation tickets for determining and allocating charge transfer provides a valuable management tool across a power grid. In some cases there may be a hard or variable limit on the aggregate amount of charge available from the power grid connected to the charging station . If the aggregate amount is a hard limit once all the charging current or charge transfer is allotted for electric vehicles or other devices the charging station cannot charge additional vehicles. Once all charge transfer is allocated through reservation tickets or actual charging of electric vehicles no additional electric vehicles may use the charging facilities. If the aggregate amount corresponds to a variable limit additional electric vehicles seeking charge transfer may simply incur an additional cost for electricity. In this situation a reservation ticket may allow someone to lock in a specific price for charging their electric vehicle.

In still another implementation a user without a reservation ticket may use the charging station until a user with a reservation ticket claims his spot.

In another implementation a reservation ticket may be a general ticket and be redeemable at any charging station at any time. Each reservation ticket may have a valuation attached to the reservation ticket in case the ticket s owner may want to assign or be reimbursed for the ticket from the cloud server . Furthermore a general ticket may be assignable amongst users or may be returned to the cloud server for monetary or another form of reimbursement.

At step the first user contacts the second user through the cloud server . The cloud server may facilitate communication between users connected to the charging station or the cloud server . Communication between users may utilize a variety of different methods including email digital voice communication plain old telephone service instant messaging push notifications pop up messaging an Internet website a chat room an Internet forum short message service SMS text messaging or another method. The first user may contact the second user s mobile device directly or the cloud server may receive and relay messages to individual users.

In one implementation the first user communicates a request through the cloud server to the second user for extending charging time over the second user s reserved time. For example the request may be an informal communication where the second user simply agrees to arrive at the charging station at a later time. If the request is a formal communication the cloud server may modify the second user s reservation ticket with a new reserved time or the second user may be assigned to a new charging station. A reason for such a request by the first user may be that the first user decides his electric vehicle needs more charge than originally anticipated when the charge transfer began. Alternatively the first user may simply need to occupy the charging space due to unforeseen events preventing the first user s immediate return to his electric vehicle .

In another implementation the second user may be reimbursed for the inconvenience or the reduced charging time. A user who is reimbursed for his reserved time may be paid directly by a user or indirectly using the cloud server . On the other hand the first user who is requesting an extension of time may receive an additional cost to his charging transaction for going over his allotted time.

In another implementation if the first user occupies the charging space during someone else s reserved time the first user may be penalized or fined if he refuses to move his electric vehicle . Penalties may be tracked by the cloud server and potentially result in users having their accounts deactivated. Deactivation results in a mobile device or a user s account being locked and unable to access account services or initiate a charging transaction.

At step the second user responds to the first user through the cloud server . For example the second user may grant or deny the extension of time for the first user . If the second user grants the extension of time the first user s charge transfer may be adjusted with new charging parameters from the cloud server . If the second user denies the extension of time the first user s charge transfer will end when the reserved time begins or at a specified time before the reserved time.

In one implementation regardless whether the extension of time is granted or denied the first user may receive a notification on his mobile device alerting him to the status of his request. The notification may state whether there is acceptance or rejection of the offer.

In another implementation the communication between the first user and second user may be formal or informal. For an informal communication the second user may simply communicate a message to the first user . If the request is formal the second user may agree to an official assignment that authorizes the cloud server to modify the second user s reservation ticket. An official assignment may include a user agreeing to a notification on his or her mobile device or transmitting a password or security information to the cloud server . In one implementation the second user or the first user may place formal requirements or conditions on extending the reserved time. These conditions may include a monetary payment or a specific amount of time that the first user may use the charging station .

At step the first user obtains a reservation ticket for charging his electric vehicle at the charging station .

At step the second user observes that the first user has a reservation ticket. An internet website or a reservation user interface may display charging reservations for specific charging spaces dates and times where one of the displayed reservations corresponds to the first user s reservation ticket. The website or reservation user interface may identify the first user in possession of the reservation or may keep the person anonymous.

At step the second user contacts the first user through the cloud server . For example the second user may communicate a request through the cloud server to the first user for obtaining the first user s remaining reservation ticket. If the second user wants the first user s reservation time at the charging station the second user may inquire if the first user would be willing to change modify or transfer his reservation ticket to him. The transaction may occur between users in real time or through posted messages e.g. email directly or indirectly. For an indirect communication the cloud server may relay messages between the first user and the second user without either user having direct contact or knowledge of the other person s identity. Likewise the cloud server may use a variety of different communication methods to facilitate communication between users including email digital voice communication plain old telephone service instant messaging push notifications pop up messaging an internet website a chat room an internet forum short messaging service SMS text messaging or any other method.

In one implementation a reservation ticket may be assignable to different users in part or as a distinct whole. For example if the first user obtains a reservation ticket for an entire day at the charging station the first user may divide the reserved time into different time intervals so friends or family may charge their electric vehicles. Where a reservation ticket is divisible the ticket may show the remaining amount of time or charge transfer allowed on the ticket. Further the reservation ticket may also be assigned based on compensation between parties. In another implementation if a person knows that he will not be available for charging an electric vehicle at his reserved time he or she may return their reservation ticket to the cloud server to free up a charging space for someone else. The person may be reimbursed by the cloud server or they may receive a new reservation ticket for another time at the same or a different charging station.

At step the first user responds through the cloud server to the second user . Using the same or a different method of communication as used in step the first user may transmit a response to the request back to the second user . The response may be informal where it is simply a message to the second user or it may be formal where it authorizes the cloud server to perform some action.

At step the first user grants or denies the second user s request for the remaining reservation ticket. The charging station may act according to the grant or denial. For example the cloud server may transfer the reservation ticket from the first user to the second user if the request is granted.

Several geolocation methods are depicted in using dotted arrows to distinguish them from network connections depicted using arrows with segmented lines. Examples of geolocation methods may include Global Position System GPS sonar sensors multilateration e.g. among cell phone towers radio frequency identification RFID induction coil sensors any other geolocation method or a combination of geolocation methods. In one instance an empty charging space is monitored by a geolocation method using either nearby sensors or another geolocation method.

In one implementation the charging station may monitor a charging space with a geolocation method to verify whether an electric vehicle has left or not. When geolocation readings from the geolocation method detect that the charging space is empty a cloud server may broadcast to a user s mobile device over a network connection that a charging space has become available. The cloud server may also notify possible users that a charging space is currently unoccupied.

In one implementation the charging station may also monitor the geolocation of a mobile device associated with the electric vehicle to determine the estimated time of arrival of the mobile device s user. As shown in a geolocation method may be utilized at the charging station or a geolocation method by the cloud server to track the mobile device s whereabouts. More than one geolocation method may be used to monitor a device or charging space in order to improve accuracy and provide redundancy.

In another implementation geolocation information may be transmitted to the cloud server mobile device or the charging station through a telematics platform.

At step the charging system receives a first geolocation information regarding the mobile device from a geolocation method .

As an example the first geolocation information may be determined by forming a network connection to the mobile device . When the mobile device connects to the docking station the first geolocation information may be the location of the docking station . If the mobile device connects wirelessly to the charging station the first geolocation information may be the approximate area around the charging station where a wireless connection is possible.

Depending on the circumstances geolocation information from one geolocation method may be optimal over geolocation information from another method. GPS or multilateration using cell phone towers is useful for locating a mobile device over a large distance. Short range geolocation information from sonar RFID or induction coil sensors can alert the charging station or the cloud server whether an electric vehicle or a mobile device is entering or leaving the charging station .

In one implementation geolocation information may not necessarily be a single coordinate or reading but a series of readings taken over seconds minutes hours or even days. For example the speed at which a mobile device is traveling the type of terrain where a mobile device is located metadata or any other related data may be included in geolocation information.

At step the charging system compares the first geolocation information relating to the mobile device with a second geolocation information relating to the charging station . Because the charging station is at a fixed physical location the second geolocation information may not change and therefore can be stored on the cloud server . For example the charging system may use a map detailing the geolocation information of a plurality of charging stations for determining the second geolocation information. In one implementation the second geolocation information may relate to a plurality of charging stations.

At step the charging system determines the distance between the mobile device and the charging station based on the first and second geolocation information. Further the distance between the mobile device and a plurality of charging stations may be determined. The charging system may determine the distance between mobile devices or compare the distances between mobile devices or charging stations. Likewise the charging system may even determine the distance between a user s mobile device and an electric vehicle owned by the same user or another user. For determining the availability of a charging station any of these measured distances may be used in an algorithm.

In one implementation the charging system may use a third geolocation information where the information is in regard to a geographical feature. Geographical features may include roads cities radio or cell towers a physical landmark such as a forest or mountain or a commercial establishment such as hotels or restaurants. The cloud server may develop a navigation route between the mobile device and the charging station or a plurality of charging stations using the third geolocation information. The navigation route may also be based on the traveling speed of the mobile device .

At step the charging system determines the availability of the charging station based on the distance between the mobile device and the charging station . Availability may refer to the current availability of charging spaces or charge transfer at the charging station . In one implementation availability may refer to a future expected availability of charging spaces or charge transfer at the charging station .

Availability may be determined through several different availability algorithms. The simplest method is to determine whether all current charging spaces are occupied or reserved. In one implementation the charging system may calculate the expected number of charging spaces that are usually occupied at a given time on a specific day of the week and use this data accordingly. By knowing how far the mobile device is from the charging station the cloud server may provide an accurate predictor of the future arrival time when the mobile device s user may collect their electric vehicle .

Availability may be gauged in terms of actual availability or as a probability or likelihood that a charging space may be available upon a user s arrival at the charging station . This probability or likelihood may be defined as an availability score. The availability score may take into account how many charging spaces or charge transfer remains at a charging station. Likewise charging stations may update the cloud server continuously on the availability of charging spaces or when a connection to the cloud server becomes available. For determining availability as a probability the availability algorithm may consider how much time has passed since the last update.

At step the charging system sends a message to the mobile device based on the distance between the mobile device and the charging station . The mobile device may receive the message over the network connection to the cloud server . The message may be based on the availability of the charging station an electric vehicle charging transaction the mobile device s distance from the charging station whether the mobile device is approaching or leaving the charging station or any other relevant message. For example if the mobile device is leaving the charging station the charging system may send the mobile device a goodbye message a receipt of the charging transaction a notification asking the mobile device to confirm whether the electric vehicle is finished charging or any other relevant message. Likewise if a mobile device is approaching the charging station the charging system may send the mobile device updates on the charge transfer of their electric vehicle a welcome message a request to reserve a charging space or any other relevant message. In one implementation the messages relating to mobile devices approaching or leaving a charging station may be based on specific distances from a charging station rather than the arrival or departure of a mobile device.

At step the charging system sends a notification to users regarding the availability of the charging station or several charging stations. Further the notification may include the expected amount of time that a charging station may be available the amount of time when a charging station may become available how accurate is the information and how many available slots may be at a charging station. A charging station slot may be a time slot or a vehicle slot such as a charging space.

At step the charging station acquires geolocation information about the mobile device or the charging station using geolocation method . For a detailed explanation about geolocation information see steps and in . When the mobile device arrives at the charging station several geolocation methods may be triggered or initiated by the charging system . In one geolocation method the charging station may have sensors stationed around charging spaces to determine whether or not an electric vehicle occupies a charging space or enters the area around the charging station . For example geolocation method may use sonar induction coil sensors RFID or another method to register the arrival departure or continued presence of an electric vehicle at the charging station . If the charging station uses geolocation method on an empty charging space the charging station may report to the cloud server that the charging space is available for a new electric vehicle. If an electric vehicle connects to the charging station via a charging coupler and begins charging the vehicle s battery then the charging station determines using geolocation method that the electric vehicle occupies the charging space .

At step the user of the mobile device initiates a charge transfer for the electric vehicle at the charging station . If the electric vehicle connects to the charging station via a charging coupler and begins charging the vehicle s battery then the charging station may determine that the electric vehicle occupies the charging space . This information may be used as a geolocation method.

At step the charging station detects the mobile device leaving the charging station using a geolocation method .

At step the charging station and the cloud server monitor the mobile device s distance away from the charging station using geolocation methods. By knowing how far away the mobile device is from the charging station the charging system may predict whether the mobile device s user is occupied or returning to the charging station . In one implementation the cloud server may monitor the speed and distance of the mobile device in order to predict the estimated time of arrival of the user . If the measured speed is faster than a typical human s walking speed for a specific time duration or specific travel pattern the charging system may use this information to predict whether the user is returning to the charging station .

In one implementation where the mobile device is a cell phone or similar device the cloud server or the charging station may communicate over the network connection with the mobile device about the user s estimated time of arrival. The cloud server may send inquiries asking when the user expects to collect their vehicle. The charging system may use this response for calculating availability for other users. To send messages over the network connection from the charging station to a mobile device away from the charging station the piggybacked approach described with reference to may be employed.

At step the charging station and cloud server may send messages to the mobile device or other users based on the acquired geolocation information and the availability of the charging station . These messages may be similar to the messages sent above in step with respect to .

A mobile device may have a mobile application that contains software for communicating with the control pilot at the charging station . At step the mobile device connects to the docking station . The mobile device may connect over an audio jack a universal service bus USB cable or the charging coupler. At step the electric vehicle connects to the charging station . At step the mobile device communicates with a grid utility.

At step the mobile device sends a charging control signal to the charging station or the electric vehicle over a single networked link . The single networked link may be the connection to the docking station . For example the mobile device may communicate wirelessly to the charging station or the electric vehicle .

Charging control signals may include instructions for regulating or initiating a standard charge transfer from the side of the electric vehicle or the charging station . Likewise the charging control signal may include charging parameters updates for the electric vehicle or charging station or smart charging instructions relating to a charge transfer. In some implementations the mobile device may send the charging control signal directly to the control pilot or to a receiver on the electric vehicle or the charging station .

At step the charging station or the electric vehicle sends a response to the mobile device regarding the charging control signal over the single networked link . The response may include a message that the charging control signal was received that no error occurred in following the charging control signal or another relevant response back to the mobile device . At step the charging station enables or disables charge transfer for the electric vehicle based on the charging control signal. At step the charging control signal adjusts a parameter used to draw electric power from the charging station . At step the mobile device disconnects from the docking station .

Regulating the Charging of an Electric Vehicle Through Adjusting the Charging Current s Duty Cycle or Other Charging Parameters

The electric vehicle charging system includes a charging station connected to a server . The server may be a remote server such as a cloud server a server for a local metering network a control pilot module part of or external to the charging station or any other device capable of sending instructions to the charging station . The charging station may communicate with the server over a power line communication PLC network through an Internet connection in the home or business or any other network means. further illustrates an electric vehicle that may be charged using the charging station through a charging coupler . A charging current may pass through the charging coupler to the electric vehicle to charge a battery or energy storage unit but the electric vehicle or the charging station may also send a communication signal to the other device through the charging coupler . Likewise a user can initiate a charge transfer for the electric vehicle through the user interface on the charging station with a mobile device not shown such as a cell phone or another method.

At step the electric vehicle connects to the charging station through the charging coupler or another method such as a wireless or another wired connection.

At step the charging station receives a charging control signal from the server . In one implementation the server may communicate with a grid utility or a smart charger on a remote or local server for determining the charging control signal. Conversely the charging control signal may arise locally at the charging station as from the onboard control pilot . The charging control signal may be based on one or several charging parameters including a battery temperature of an electric vehicle a charging current a battery charge of an electric vehicle a length of time since an electric vehicle began charging a price of electricity a time of day a time until an electric vehicle s next use a weather reading an option for econocharging a charging cable rating a circuit protection rating a current duty cycle for a charging current for one or several electric vehicles a future power draw from an electric vehicle a threshold level for aggregate electric consumption a threshold level for instantaneous electrical consumption a maximum allowable charge rate a microgrid rating a present power draw from an electric vehicle a protection fuse rating a quantity of electricity stored within a microgrid an operational limit set by a grid utility an option for using green energy and any other relevant charging information.

At step the charging station adjusts the duty cycle of a charging current based on the charging control signal. In one implementation the duty cycle may be a pulse width modulated PWM signal. See for examples of different charging current duty cycles. By controlling the duty cycle the charging rate can be varied to achieve a desired power output.

In some implementations the electric vehicle s charging current may use a static duty cycle an adjusted duty cycle or a variable duty cycle. A static duty cycle may be a default duty cycle used by the charging station or a different duty cycle manually chosen by the user or server . An adjusted duty cycle is a duty cycle modified by the server or the charging station based on some predetermined condition or conditions. A charging control signal may include these predetermined conditions or be the result or product of following these predetermined conditions. The process of verifying whether the condition is satisfied or unsatisfied may occur at the electric vehicle the charging station or the server .

A variable duty cycle is a duty cycle that may change to a plurality of different duty cycle values throughout an electric vehicle s charge transfer. For example a variable duty cycle is similar to an adjusted duty cycle in that a variable duty cycle uses predetermined conditions except that a variable duty cycle may represent two or more duty cycle values while an adjusted duty cycle may be one modified duty cycle. Likewise once a variable duty cycle is implemented at the charging station no external instructions or charging control signals may be required to change duty cycle values throughout a charge transfer.

Predetermined conditions may correspond to charging parameters an external command from the server or a charging rate algorithm. For example a charging rate algorithm may include a relationship where a specified percentage increase in electricity prices results in a specified percentage decrease in the duty cycle of the charging current. In one implementation the charging rate algorithm may be based on communications within a multi agent system. A multi agent system includes a mesh network of charging stations or other charging agents that use logic to communicate self regulate and optimize the local load on a microgrid.

A duty cycle may be selected in several ways. For example in a standalone mode the charging station or the server can select a duty cycle that is the lower of the maximum current rating of the charging cable and the maximum current rating of a protection fuse installed. This will ensure that the charging current is within constraints of the safe operating range of the charging station . Likewise a macrogrid or microgrid operator may be able to communicate with the charging station and adjust the charging current according to the available line current for the grid.

A duty cycle may be determined by the control pilot and dynamically varied in accordance with pre specified charging algorithms or optimization parameters or may be automatically selected from default settings within the constraints of an electric vehicle s safe operating range. In some implementations the duty cycle may correspond to a variable charging rate such as a charging rate corresponding to a smart charging algorithm.

At step the charging station charges the electric vehicle with the charging current that reflects a selected duty cycle. The electric vehicle s battery or energy storage unit will be charged through a charging current sent over the charging coupler coupled to the electric vehicle .

In one implementation the charge transfer initiated by step may not be a continuous charge. The charging station may stagger the charging rate or charging period depending on whether an option for smart charging is selected the length of time the electric vehicle is expected to charge the time until the electric vehicle s next use the specific time for completing the charging of an electric vehicle how many other electric vehicles are being charged the current battery temperature of an electric vehicle or other factors or parameters.

Further at step the act of enabling or disabling charging of the electric vehicle may occur via the control pilot . Charging may proceed according to standard SAE J1772. For example the method for controlling the dispensing of charge from the charging station is through activating or deactivating the control pilot . In another instance the control pilot may decide the battery in the electric vehicle is fully charged or based on another condition and end the charge transfer. Likewise the control pilot may receive a charging control signal from a mobile device or an instruction from the cloud server to stop charging the electric vehicle . The user may stop the charge transfer by unplugging a charging coupler from the electric vehicle .

In another implementation the control pilot may gradually reduce the charging current s duty cycle automatically within a preset timeframe. The duty cycle may decrease until it is within an allowable charging rate.

This approach in the charging system to having charging stations communicate with other individual charging stations or as a member of the network of charging stations describes an example of a multi agent network. In a multi agent network each charging station may act as an intelligent agent with the circuitry and logic necessary for communicating with other intelligent agents. For any network charging algorithms each intelligent agent may be equal to other agents inside the network or be weighted with greater or lesser priority or importance in relation to the other intelligent agents.

Some charging stations within the multi agent network may be dumb and take part in no network charging algorithms or network communication. In one implementation a dumb charging station may be converted to an intelligent agent through an intelligent adaptor or module that may be coupled to the dumb charging station. The intelligent adaptor may be coupled to a standard electrical outlet.

At step the first electric vehicle is connected to the first charging station . For example the first electric vehicle may connect through a charging coupler as used for charging the battery on an electric vehicle. Likewise the first electric vehicle may connect through a wireless or another wired method or a combination thereof. Further after making a connection the first charging station may transmit charging information regarding the first electric vehicle and the subsequent charge transfer throughout the network of charging stations. In response charging stations in the network may adjust various electrical loads to address this new charge transfer.

At step the second charging station receives a grid instruction from a grid utility. The grid utility is responsible for determining the maximum allowable line current and therefore the maximum allowable charging rate for a charging station a microgrid or a macrogrid.

A microgrid may refer to any predefined sub portion of an electrical grid other than the entire macrogrid. A microgrid may be a level of a building an entire building a shopping center a college campus a neighborhood a collection of buildings or any other predetermined electrical infrastructure. A microgrid may encompass only electric vehicles or it may include nonvehicle loads such as household appliances for example. A macrogrid is a collection of microgrids.

The grid utility may communicate with charging stations over a wired connection such as over a power line communication PLC network the Zigbee protocol any number of wireless or wired network methods or combinations thereof.

The grid instruction may contain permissive or mandatory guidelines for charging electric vehicles across a microgrid a macrogrid or individual charging stations. Further the instruction may be used to create commands for other charging stations or relayed across the network to specific charging stations or intelligent agents. A grid instruction may pertain to one charging station or several charging stations.

Further the grid instruction may include charging information such as charging parameters smart charging operations commands for managing electric vehicle charge transfers along a microgrid or macrogrid or other information. As part of or in addition to the grid instruction the grid utility may send a request to update the grid utility with charging information relating to one or several charging stations.

At step the second charging station sends a first charging control signal to a plurality of charging stations. The plurality of charging stations may include the network of charging stations and the first charging station . A charging control signal may include charging parameters updates for ongoing or past charge transfers at any charging station commands to increase or decrease the amount of current or power being drawn from the electrical grid other commands guidelines for charging any or a specific electric vehicle or vehicles at any or a specific charging station or stations or other charging information. Furthermore the charging control signal may be used to control locks motions sensors alarms and meter readings.

In one implementation the charging control signals may include commands or data relating to a negotiation algorithm for determining electric vehicle charging rates for charging stations in the network . In the negotiation algorithm charging stations transmit charging control signals between each other to determine the optimal charging rates for some or all electric vehicles being charged. The negotiation algorithm may consider factors such as priority lists pricing urgency safety etc. In some algorithms each charging station may receive the same charge allocation as the other charging stations or a specific one for the charging station. At each charging station using the negotiation algorithm each electric vehicle may receive the same charging rate or one specific to the electric vehicle. The factors used by the negotiation algorithm may be updated in real time at periodic intervals or upon command of one or more of the charging stations in the network .

In another implementation charging stations in the network may be participatory or non participatory agents. A participating agent is considered among the network s algorithms for determining charging current parameters among other participating agents. A non participatory agent may have its line current set to a static value where the value is determined locally at the non participatory agent by a remote server or by another method. If only one participating agent is present that charging station will dictate the initial charging rate charging parameters and other charging conditions for future participatory agents.

The first charging station may or may not be an intelligent agent. If the first charging station is an intelligent agent it may accept the charging control signal or transmit a response to the second charging station rebutting the charging control signal. As an intelligent agent the first charging station may override the charging control signal transmit new charging parameters back to the second charging station for use in an updated negotiation algorithm or send its own charging control signal. If the first charging station is a dumb station it will passively accept the charging control signal and follow any charging commands or instructions accordingly. Likewise a dumb station may send a response that the charging control signal has been successfully implemented.

At step the first charging station enables or disables a charge transfer for the first electric vehicle where the charge transfer is based on the first charging control signal. The first charging station may store charging algorithms for managing the charge transfer in its control pilot its computing system or another component. These charging algorithms may utilize the charging parameters from the first charging control signal commands or guidelines. In other implementations the algorithms may be performed at another charging station a cloud server or even a mobile device or electric vehicle. In one implementation these charging algorithms may be based on a plurality of charging control signals received from the network or any other agent in the network whether a charging station or not. Some all or none of these charging control signals may be included in the charging algorithms for regulating charge transfers.

At step the second charging station receives a second charging control signal from the first charging station . In a multi agent network agents may send out new charging controls signals to other agents or in response to a charging control signal. Two or more charging stations may determine their charging transfers in relation to each other without communicating with the network or may broadcast and receive charging control signals with the network . In one implementation a plurality of charging stations may synchronize charging parameters among the plurality. During the charging process the first charging station may update or modify its charging current or other charging parameters based on newly received charging control signals. A relevant charging algorithm may be recalculated based on new charging parameters or instructions from another agent in the network.

At step the second charging station enables or disables charge transfer for the second electric vehicle where the charge transfer is based on the second charging control signal.

At step the first electric vehicle disconnects from the first charging station . Any algorithms used by the network or other charging stations may be reset at this point to take into account one fewer load on the charging system . Likewise the first charging station may broadcast an update to the network that a load has been disconnected. This update may be sent immediately or at a determined time.

Implementations of various technologies described herein may be operational with numerous general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the various technologies described herein include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The various technologies described herein may be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that performs particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The various technologies described herein may also be implemented in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network e.g. by hardwired links wireless links or combinations thereof. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The computing system may include a central processing unit CPU a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the CPU . Although only one CPU is illustrated in it should be understood that in some implementations the computing system may include more than one CPU. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus. The system memory may include a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help transfer information between elements within the computing system such as during start up may be stored in the ROM .

The computing system may further include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk drive the magnetic disk drive and the optical disk drive may be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media may provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing system .

Although the computing system is described herein as having a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the computing system may also include other types of computer readable media that may be accessed by a computer. For example such computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media may further include RAM ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing system . Communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may mean a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs control pilot program data and a database system . The application programs may include various mobile applications apps and other applications configured to perform various methods and techniques described herein. The operating system may be any suitable operating system that may control the operation of a networked personal or server computer such as Windows XP Mac OS X Unix variants e.g. Linux and BSD and the like.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing system through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device . Other input devices may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices may be connected to the CPU through a serial port interface coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device may also be connected to system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor the computing system may further include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printers.

Further the computing system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers . The logical connections may be any connection that is commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet such as local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . The remote computers may each include application programs similar to that of the computer action function.

When using a LAN networking environment the computing system may be connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing system may include a modem wireless router or other means for establishing communication over a wide area network such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing system or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

It should be understood that the various technologies described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware software or a combination of both. Thus various technologies or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various technologies. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various technologies described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

While the foregoing is directed to implementations of various technologies described herein other and further implementations may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof which may be determined by the claims that follow. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

