---

title: Privacy application and method
abstract: A computing device comprising an operating system comprising one or more operating system features, a plurality of applications and a background service. A first of the plurality of applications is adapted to create one or more privacy groups and associate a remainder of the plurality of applications with at least one of the one or more privacy groups. The background service is adapted to (i) communicate with the first of the plurality of applications and the one or more operating system features, and (ii) associate at least one of the remainder of the plurality of applications and one of the one or more privacy groups with the one or more operating system features.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08875163&OS=08875163&RS=08875163
owner: Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc.
number: 08875163
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120501
---
This invention relates to application privacy. Specifically but not intended to limit the invention embodiments of the invention are related to managing data transmission to from and between computing device software applications.

When operating a computing device such as but not limited to a touch screen mobile computing device it may be desired to use one or more applications associated with the device. During the installation and use of such applications a user may be informed or may otherwise determine that such applications share information with other applications or with other computing device features. If such sharing of information is not critical to the use of the application or if the user does not wish to share various types of information the user may wish to cease or otherwise modify such sharing of information.

Illustrative embodiments of the present invention that are shown in the drawings are summarized below. These and other embodiments are more fully described in the Detailed Description section. It is to be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the forms described in this Summary of the Invention or in the Detailed Description. One skilled in the art can recognize that there are numerous modifications equivalents and alternative constructions that fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as expressed in the claims.

One embodiment of the invention comprises a computing device comprising an operating system a plurality of applications and a background service. The operating system comprises one or more operating system features. A first of the plurality of applications is adapted to create one or more privacy groups and associate a remainder of the plurality of applications with at least one of the one or more privacy groups. The background service is adapted to communicate with the first of the plurality of applications and the one or more operating system features. The background service is further adapted to associate at least one of the remainder of the plurality of applications and the one or more privacy groups with the one or more operating system features.

Another embodiment of the invention comprises a computing system comprising a means for establishing one or more privacy groups a means for associating one or more applications one or more data types and one or more operating system features with the one or more privacy groups and a means for configuring the one or more privacy groups to at least one of allow and restrict the flow of information to and or from the applications associated with the one or more privacy groups. The computing system further comprises a means for requesting the information and a means for responding to the information request.

Yet another embodiment of the invention comprises a method of determining whether information may be sent from a computing device application. One method comprises creating one or more privacy groups associating at least one of the computing device application and a data type with the one or more privacy groups requesting to access information associated with the computing device application and determining whether the information may be accessed. The method further comprises one of providing the information and providing a notice the information cannot be provided.

And yet another embodiment of the invention comprises a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium encoded with processor readable instructions to perform a method of operating application privacy settings on a computing device. One such method comprises launching a privacy application displaying at least one of computing device applications and data associated with the applications and prompting a user to place at least one of the applications and the data into groups based on one or more privacy settings. The method may further comprise identifying one or more operating system features associated with the at least one of applications and data.

Looking first at seen is a computing device comprising an operating system a plurality of applications and a background service . A first of the plurality of applications may comprise a privacy application . Upon launching the privacy application on the computing device a user interface may be displayed. One example of a user interface is seen in although any other user interface described herein or known in the art may be used. It is contemplated that although the various features of the computing device shown in are separate and every other figure is merely exemplary and the actual implementation of the features shown in and the other figures may vary.

In one embodiment the privacy application may enable a user to create one or more privacy groups. A privacy group may comprise a configuration for enabling or restricting the flow of information and or information types to or from any applications associated with the privacy group. It is contemplated that although the term information is used in this example to describe the functionality of a privacy group the term data may also be used to describe the privacy group and privacy application functionality throughout the specification. Such terms may be used interchangeably where appropriate.

In one embodiment a user may create a first privacy group having a first privacy setting. The first privacy setting may comprise restricting the flow of a first information type from any applications associated with the first privacy group. In one embodiment the first information type may comprise financial information. The privacy application may automatically provide the information types associated with each application assigned to the privacy group or located on the device or a user may identify the information types. Additional information types include personal information such as but not limited to home address phone number social security number. Other types of information used by applications are also contemplated. In one embodiment a first privacy group may also allow the flow of personal information from any applications associated with the group. A second privacy group having a second privacy setting may restrict the flow of all information from the applications . Alternative privacy settings are contemplated which may restrict the flow of information to any applications assigned to the group. Additionally and as disclosed below one or more privacy settings may involve restricting or allowing the use of various memory devices.

Upon creation of the privacy groups and privacy settings a user may use the user interface to place one or more of a remainder of the plurality of applications not including the privacy application into one or more of the privacy groups. The remainder of the plurality of applications may also be referred to as other applications . To place the one or more of the remainder of applications in a privacy group in one embodiment the user interface may display a list of the applications installed on the computing device and the user may separate the applications by for example drawing one or more horizontal and or or vertical lines separating the list into two or more sections. The user may then assign each section to a privacy group by double tapping on the screen within each section or by performing another gesture or selecting a specific menu option. Alternatively the user may draw circles around groups of applications and assign the applications in the circle to a privacy group in a similar manner. The user may also place each application into a privacy group individually by selecting the application on the user interface or may place the applications into a group by assigning an application type to each application such as but not limited to financial gaming etc. and then assigning each application type to a specific privacy group. Upon placing the applications into one or more privacy groups the user may modify the group each application is associated with and or may modify the privacy group settings. However such modification may induce one or more alert notifications as described below.

The background service may be initiated upon launching the privacy application . One background service may be adapted to communicate with the other applications via the privacy application and with one or more operating system features . For example the background service may comprise an abstraction layer on the operating system that communicates with the operating system features via one or more APIs and with the privacy application via one or more wrapper APIs .

In receiving information from the privacy application the background service may at least one of enable and disable aspects of one or more operating system features by limiting the flow of various types of information to the other applications . As described below which features are enabled and which information types may be sent to from the various applications may be stored in a table whose data is controlled by the background service as set by a user of the privacy application .

In one embodiment the background service may store data related to the applications in one or more memory locations . The one or more memory locations comprise may comprise RAM ROM NVM DVD CD ROM SD card etc. The data related to the applications may be information received from the privacy application and information received from the operating system . For example the background service may create the one or more tables and insert into the tables data comprising an application identifier such as but no limited to an application name. Associated with the identifier may be one or more operating system constructs such as but not limited to a process identifier such as a process i.d. A privacy setting as set by the user in the privacy application may also be associated with the other applications in the table . The privacy setting may be associated by the background service to allow and restrict various types of data with the application and to enable disable operating system features for the application .

In one embodiment through receiving information from the privacy application the background service may establish which memory portions the application may access for example whether the application may share information dynamically on the memory heap share information on the RAM while the application is running access information on an SD static data Card and or whether the application will have full memory access for information on the data partition s . Other operating system features comprising constructs may further comprise whether the application does or does not operate as a sandbox application or a state based application.

In such a manner the background service is adapted to associate the remainder of the plurality of applications with one or more operating system features at least one of the one or more privacy groups and restricting or allowing the flow of information or various data types with the applications . The background service is further adapted to communicate with the first of the plurality of applications comprising the privacy application through wrapper APIs and the one or more operating system features through operating system APIs .

Turning now to seen is a representation of the layers within a privacy application . One privacy application comprises a user interface layer . The user interface layer may comprise alerts and prompts that are issued to ensure the accuracy of various settings established by the user limiting and enabling various types of data. For example if the user has requested to share one type of information from the application that the privacy application has determined includes secure information the privacy application may required the user to verify the user wishes to share this information. One such information type may comprise financial information from a bank application . Various types of data may be associated by the user interface each application listed in the user interface and the user may enable or disable the sending and or receiving of such data types through the use of a drop down box radial button or other methods known in the art. Such implementation of data types may be established through implementing one or more rules through the user interface . The user interface may also be adapted to establish rules or otherwise control the flow of specific data types. For example a user may be adapted to set an application wide rule that any application comprising financial information is not allowed to share that information with any other application .

A user interface may be further adapted to enable a user to see list the established privacy groups and what rules data and applications are associated with each group. The user interface may display applications by their application identifier and or as an icon etc. Selection one or more menu options may enable various privacy application features. Furthermore and as described above and below the user interface may display selected application information by receiving information from the background service through the APIs as described in .

Translating information stored by the background service to the user interface may be enabled by an application translation layer . The translation layer may comprise a portion of a framework . The wrapper APIs may also comprise a portion of the framework . As described before the APIs may work with the background service to maintain operating system specific data structures comprising the operating system features . One type of data structure is the table described above. One table may comprise a plurality of tables .

In one embodiment the background service may enable and disable the one or more operating system features and may list the features in the table . The features may comprise at least one of a feature operating on the kernel one or more operating system process identification numbers a sandboxing security mechanism one or more memory devices one or more memory partitions and an application executable file. The one or more data structures may be stored by the background service in a computing device non volatile memory.

The one or more data structures may be accessed through one or more GET PUT functions from the background service or otherwise. In one embodiment the one or more GET PUT functions may comprise parameters comprising at least one of an application ID parameter and a privacy group identifier. Data from the data structures may be returned to the privacy application .

In one embodiment the background service is adapted to communicate with the operating system through the QPIs by sharing information between operating system processes. The background service may also be adapted to communicate with first of the plurality of applications translation layer with the translation layer being adapted to enable the information sent by the background service to be displayed by the user interface . For example the translation layer may modify the received information and send the modified information to an application layer comprising the user interface . The background service may be launched by the privacy application .

Turning now to seen is another embodiment of the invention comprising a computing system . One computing system comprises a user interface . In one embodiment the user interface may comprise a means for establishing one or more privacy groups. For example a user may choose a menu selection and the menu selection may provide an option for creating one or more privacy groups. The user may then configure the one or more privacy groups to at least one of allow and restrict the flow various information types to and or from the one or more privacy groups. In order to determine whether data may be enable for an application the privacy application may determine the types of data associated with each particular application . Alternatively the user may associate various types of data with the application . Still further alternatively the user or the privacy application may determine or set the types of data that are used by all the applications and list those in a data menu .

Upon choosing to create the one or more privacy groups one or more applications or data types may be associated with the one or more privacy groups. Seen in is a first privacy group and a second privacy group . Additionally the computing system may further comprise means for requesting the data associated with the application and means for responding to the request. In configuring the first privacy group and second privacy group to at least one of allow and restrict the flow of information to and or from the privacy groups one embodiment may comprise associating metadata with the operating system data sent from the background service . For example in requesting to view privacy group data at least one of the user interface and the background service may determine whether the information may be accessed and if so a cookie comprising the metadata may be received by the user interface .

Also seen in is a first data privacy group and a second data privacy group . The data privacy groups may be enabled or disabled for various applications . Like the application privacy groups where the user may manually assign types of data to the groups the system may automatically assign types of data to align with general settings as established by the user e.g. financial security group setting business security group setting personal security setting etc. the user may also manually assign various applications to the data privacy groups in a similar manner. In requesting information associated with the applications or data the request may be initiated via an interface associated with the application . The request may be processed by the background service which implements the privacy group settings as established through the user interface . The background service then determines whether the data may be sent to the requested application . If so the requested data is sent from the background service to the application .

Turning now to seen is a method of determining whether to provide information. One method starts at and at comprises creating one or more privacy groups. In one embodiment the one or more privacy groups may comprise the application privacy groups and or the data privacy groups seen in . At the method comprises associating one of an application and a data type with the one or more privacy groups. This operation is explained above with reference to . At the method comprises requesting to access information associated with the one of an application and a data type. This is further disclosed above and comprises operating the application through a user interface associated with the application to request data associated with the application i.e. financial information associated with a banking application or otherwise accessing the data . At the method comprises determining whether the information may be accessed. This step comprises as described elsewhere determining at the background service the privacy group setting as established by the privacy application that is associated with the data. At if the background service determines that the privacy setting allows the data to be transferred to from the application the data is transferred or if the privacy setting associated with the data application prevents the data from being sent a notice is provided to the user that the information cannot be provided. At the method ends.

As described above in one embodiment the method step of comprising associating one of an application and a data type with the one or more privacy groups may comprise launching a privacy application displaying at least one of plurality of additional applications and a plurality of data types and performing a gesture to separate the at least one of plurality of additional applications and a plurality of data types into at least two groups. Furthermore performing a gesture may comprise at least one of drawing a line on a touch screen separating the at least one of plurality of additional applications and a plurality of data types into at least two groups and drawing one or more concentric circles on a touch screen separating the at least one of plurality of additional applications and a plurality of data types into at least two groups. Drawing a line on a touch screen may comprise drawing at least one of a substantially vertical line a substantially horizontal line and a substantially diagonal line.

It is further contemplated that another embodiment of the invention may comprise non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium encoded with processor readable instructions to perform a method of operating application privacy settings on a computing device such as but not limited to the computing device of . One such method of operating application privacy settings comprises launching a privacy application displaying at least one of computing device applications and data associated with the applications and prompting a user to place at least one of the applications and the data into groups based on one or more privacy setting. Such a method may further comprise identifying one or more operating system features associated with the at least one of applications and data.

In one embodiment the groups comprise privacy groups at least one of allowing and preventing one or more data type communication with the applications data associated with the privacy group. The method may further comprise creating the privacy groups before prompting a user to place at least one of the applications and the data into groups based on one or more privacy settings. In one embodiment identifying one or more operating system features associated with the at least one of applications and data comprises associating with the at least one of applications and data at least one of a process ID a parent process ID an application name and an application executable.

In conclusion embodiments of the present invention enable a user to limit the types of data shared to and from computing device applications. Those skilled in the art can readily recognize that numerous variations and substitutions may be made in the invention its use and its configuration to achieve substantially the same results as achieved by the embodiments described herein. Accordingly there is no intention to limit the invention to the disclosed exemplary forms. Many variations modifications and alternative constructions fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed invention as expressed in the claims.

