---

title: Smart device for industrial automation
abstract: A cloud-aware smart device that facilitates automated configuration and integration of the device within an automation system is provided. Upon installation within the automation system, the smart device determines its geographical location, identifies other devices on the system, and determines its role within the system. The smart device then establishes communication with a cloud platform running one or more cloud-based applications or services and sends a device profile containing the gathered information to the cloud platform. The device profile can be used to automatically configure the device for operation within the system or to add the smart device to an existing cloud-based application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363336&OS=09363336&RS=09363336
owner: ROCKWELL AUTOMATION TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09363336
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121221
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 587 531 filed on Feb. 9 2012 and entitled INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION CLOUD COMPUTING SYSTEMS AND METHODS. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 162 315 filed on Jun. 4 2002 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 151 966 on Dec. 19 2006 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHODOLOGY PROVIDING OPEN INTERFACE AND DISTRIBUTED PROCESSING IN AN INDUSTRIAL CONTROLLER ENVIRONMENT. The entireties of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The subject application relates generally to industrial automation and more particularly to cloud aware smart devices for use in an industrial automation environment.

Industrial controllers and their associated I O devices are central to the operation of modern automation systems. These controllers interact with field devices on the plant floor to control automated processes relating to such objectives as product manufacture material handling batch processing supervisory control and other such applications. Industrial controllers store and execute user defined control programs to effect decision making in connection with the controlled process. Such programs can include but are not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such programming structures. In general industrial controllers read input data from sensors and metering devices that provide discreet and telemetric data regarding one or more states of the controlled system and generate control outputs based on these inputs in accordance with the user defined program.

In addition to industrial controllers and their associated I O devices some industrial automation systems may also include low level control systems such as vision systems barcode marking systems variable frequency drives industrial robots and the like which perform local control of portions of the industrial process or which have their own localized control systems.

The collection of industrial devices making up a given industrial automation system is constantly in flux. As a result of system expansions maintenance concerns and device upgrades industrial devices are continually being added removed switched and replaced. This dynamic device movement often requires considerable labor and downtime to ensure that new devices are properly integrated and represented within the system. This includes not only ensuring that the new device is correctly configured to perform its role within the industrial system but also that the new device interacts properly with other devices in the system. Moreover applications that rely on data generated by the industrial devices e.g. reporting applications human machine interfaces enterprise resource planning systems etc. must be reconfigured to incorporate the new device.

The above described deficiencies of today s industrial control and business systems are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview nor is intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the various aspects described herein. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One or more embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a cloud aware smart device capable of automatic integration with cloud based applications and services. In one or more embodiments the cloud aware smart device can be configured to automatically communicate with a cloud platform when added to an existing industrial automation system and to send identification and configuration information to the cloud platform to facilitate simplified and automated integration with the larger system. For example the cloud aware smart device can generate a device profile that include such information as a device identifier a geographical location a location within an overall enterprise or plant hierarchy a device role identification of other devices in proximity to the smart device and other such information. Cloud based applications and services residing on the cloud platform can leverage information in the device profile to integrate the new smart device into the system as a whole. This can include updating cloud based applications to recognize the new device adding the new device to a dynamically updated data model of the industrial enterprise or plant making other devices on the plant floor aware of the new device or other such integration functions.

To facilitate generation of the device profile one or more embodiments of the cloud aware smart device can be configured to recognize its context within the overall automation system. For example the smart device can recognize and identify other devices in its proximity and include this information in the device profile. This information can be provided to external applications e.g. cloud based device management applications historian applications operator interface applications ERP systems etc. to facilitate awareness of the new device s location within the enterprise hierarchy.

Once the smart device has been installed and integrated with the cloud based applications and or services the device can push data to the cloud platform or pull data from the cloud platform as needed. In some embodiments the smart device can tag such data with contextual information e.g. location time stamp etc. prior to pushing the data to the cloud platform.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways which can be practiced all of which are intended to be covered herein. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removably affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

To provide a general context for the cloud gateway devices and services described herein illustrates a high level overview of an industrial enterprise that leverages cloud based services. The enterprise comprises one or more industrial facilities each having a number of industrial devices and in use. The industrial devices and can make up one or more automation systems operating within the respective facilities . Exemplary automation systems can include but are not limited to batch control systems e.g. mixing systems continuous control systems e.g. PID control systems or discrete control systems. Industrial devices and can include such devices as industrial controllers e.g. programmable logic controllers or other types of programmable automation controllers field devices such as sensors and meters motor drives human machine interfaces HMIs industrial robots barcode markers and readers vision system devices e.g. vision cameras smart welders or other such industrial devices.

Exemplary automation systems can include one or more industrial controllers that facilitate monitoring and control of their respective processes. The controllers exchange data with the field devices using native hardwired I O or via a plant network such as Ethernet IP Data Highway Plus ControlNet Devicenet or the like. A given controller typically receives any combination of digital or analog signals from the field devices indicating a current state of the devices and their associated processes e.g. temperature position part presence or absence fluid level etc. and executes a user defined control program that performs automated decision making for the controlled processes based on the received signals. The controller then outputs appropriate digital and or analog control signaling to the field devices in accordance with the decisions made by the control program. These outputs can include device actuation signals temperature or position control signals operational commands to a machining or material handling robot mixer control signals motion control signals and the like. The control program can comprise any suitable type of code used to process input signals read into the controller and to control output signals generated by the controller including but not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such platforms.

Although the exemplary overview illustrated in depicts the industrial devices and as residing in fixed location industrial facilities the industrial devices may also be part of a mobile control and or monitoring application such as a system contained in a truck or other service vehicle.

According to one or more embodiments of this disclosure industrial devices and can be coupled to a cloud platform to leverage cloud based applications and services. That is the industrial devices and can be configured to discover and interact with cloud based computing services hosted by cloud platform . Cloud platform can be any infrastructure that allows shared computing services to be accessed and utilized by cloud capable devices. Cloud platform can be a public cloud accessible via the Internet by devices having Internet connectivity and appropriate authorizations to utilize the services . In some scenarios cloud platform can be provided by a cloud provider as a platform as a service PaaS and the services can reside and execute on the cloud platform as a cloud based service. In some such configurations access to the cloud platform and associated services can be provided to customers as a subscription service by an owner of the services . Alternatively cloud platform can be a private cloud operated internally by the enterprise. An exemplary private cloud platform can comprise a set of servers hosting the cloud services and residing on a corporate network protected by a firewall.

Cloud services can include but are not limited to data storage data analysis control applications e.g. applications that can generate and deliver control instructions to industrial devices and based on analysis of near real time system data or other factors device management applications visualization applications such as cloud based operator interfaces reporting applications Enterprise Resource Planning ERP applications notification services or other such applications. If cloud platform is a web based cloud industrial devices and at the respective industrial facilities may interact with cloud services via the Internet. In an exemplary configuration industrial devices and may access the cloud services through separate cloud gateways at the respective industrial facilities where the industrial devices and connect to the cloud gateways through a physical or wireless local area network or radio link. In another exemplary configuration the industrial devices and may access the cloud platform directly using an integrated cloud gateway service as will be described in more detail herein.

Providing industrial devices with cloud capability via cloud gateways can offer a number of advantages particular to industrial automation. For one cloud based storage offered by the cloud platform can be easily scaled to accommodate the large quantities of data generated daily by an industrial enterprise. Moreover multiple industrial facilities at different geographical locations can migrate their respective automation data to the cloud platform for aggregation collation collective analysis and enterprise level reporting without the need to establish a private network between the facilities. Industrial devices and and or cloud gateways having smart configuration capability can be configured to automatically detect and communicate with the cloud platform upon installation at any facility simplifying integration with existing cloud based data storage analysis or reporting applications used by the enterprise. In another exemplary application cloud based diagnostic applications can access the industrial devices and via cloud gateways to monitor the health of respective automation systems or their associated industrial devices across an entire plant or across multiple industrial facilities that make up an enterprise. In another example cloud based lot control applications can be used to track a unit of product through its stages of production and collect production data for each unit as it passes through each stage e.g. barcode identifier production statistics for each stage of production quality test data abnormal flags etc. . These industrial cloud computing applications are only intended to be exemplary and the systems and methods described herein are not limited to these particular applications. As these examples demonstrate the cloud platform working with cloud gateways can allow builders of industrial applications to provide scalable solutions as a service removing the burden of maintenance upgrading and backup of the underlying infrastructure and framework.

Cloud aware smart device can include a user interface component a plant context component a role component a GPS component a cloud interface component a profile generation component one or more processors and memory . In this context the GPS component is to be understood as a general localization provider which may be based on GPS wireless triangulation or manually entered location information. In various embodiments one or more of the user interface component plant context component role component GPS component cloud interface component profile generation component the one or more processors and memory can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more of the functions of the cloud aware smart device . In some embodiments components and can comprise software instructions stored on memory and executed by processor s . Cloud aware smart device may also interact with other hardware and or software components not depicted in . For example processor s may interact with one or more external user interface devices such as a keyboard a mouse a display monitor a touchscreen or other such interface devices.

User interface component can be configured to receive user input and to render output to the user in any suitable format e.g. visual audio tactile etc. . User input can be for example configuration information defining whether the cloud aware smart device is allowed to push data to and or pull data from a cloud platform. User input can also comprise address information for a particular cloud platform or application with which the cloud aware smart device is to communicate. Plant context component can be configured to identify a context of the cloud aware smart device within a plant environment. This can include for example identifying other industrial devices in proximity to or sharing a plant network with cloud aware smart device identifying a location of the cloud aware smart device within a the overall enterprise or plant hierarchy identifying data tags associated with the cloud aware smart device and available for retrieval by cloud applications and other such information.

Role component can be configured to determine a role of the cloud aware smart device within the industrial automation system. Such information can be provided to the cloud platform as part of the device profile. GPS component can be configured to determine a geographical location of the cloud aware smart device . Cloud interface component can be configured to couple the cloud aware smart device to a web based or private cloud platform and exchange data with the cloud platform. Profile generation component can be configured to generate a device profile for the cloud aware smart device based on information provided by plant context component role component and or GPS component . The one or more processors can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed. Memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed.

Cloud aware smart device can be virtually any type of device used in conjunction with monitor and or control of an industrial automation system including but not limited to an industrial controller e.g. programmable logic controllers or other types of programmable automation controllers a field device such as a sensor and meter a motor drive a human machine interface HMI or other type of operator interface an industrial robot a barcode marker or reader a vision system device e.g. vision camera a smart welder or other such industrial devices. In one or more embodiments such industrial devices can include capabilities to automatically communicate with a cloud platform and provide information about the device s context role location etc. to facilitate automatic integration with one or more cloud based applications or services as well as integration with other components of the industrial system.

When cloud aware smart device is installed as part of an industrial automation system cloud interface component can establish communication with a specified cloud platform e.g. a cloud platform allocated for use by an owner of the industrial automation system . In one or more embodiments cloud interface component can determine an address of the cloud platform based on a configuration file associated with cloud aware smart device . Configuration file can specify for example a URL uniform resource locator of the cloud platform.

As part of the installation sequence profile generation component can generate a device profile for cloud aware smart device to be sent to the cloud platform via cloud interface component . Device profile can convey information about cloud aware smart device e.g. device capabilities context within the industrial automation system role etc. to one or more cloud based applications or services on the cloud platform. To this end profile generation component can leverage information provided by one or more of the plant context component or role component .

Plant context component can determine a context of cloud aware smart device within the plant or enterprise environment. For example one or more embodiments of plant context component can identify other devices and systems within its local environment and make a determination regarding a location of cloud aware smart device within a hierarchical plant context or device topology. For example some cloud based applications may model a given industrial enterprise in terms of multiple hierarchical levels and device hierarchies where each level comprises units of the enterprise organized as instances of types and their properties. Exemplary types can include for example assets e.g. pumps extruders tanks fillers welding cells utility meters etc. structures e.g. production lines production areas plants enterprises production schedules operators etc. and processes e.g. quality audit repairs test inspection batch product parameters shifts etc. .

Turning briefly to an exemplary organizational hierarchy that can be used as a basis for modeling an industrial enterprise is illustrated. In this exemplary organizational model the hierarchical levels can include from lowest to highest a workcell level a line level an area level a site level and an enterprise level . The type instances described above representing units of the enterprise can be defined for respective levels of this hierarchical structure. Modeling an industrial enterprise in this fashion can allow devices of an automation system and their associated data to be described and identified in terms of these hierarchical levels allowing a common terminology to be used across the entire enterprise to identify devices and their associated data. Thus individual devices or items of data e.g. live analog and digital values stored in controller tags archived data values stored in a historian register or other long term data storage device etc. when integrated into a framework that accords to such a hierarchical model can be identified and viewed through using unique data tags that conform to a unified hierarchical naming and browsing convention. For example through adherence to a data model based on organizational hierarchy a given item of data within an industrial system can be identified with a data tag or identifier that indicates the data item s origin or context within the organizational hierarchy e.g. SoCal DieCastArea 1HeadlineMachine DowntimeTracking DowntimeMinutes . Applications and services that model an enterprise according to organizational hierarchy can represent industrial controllers devices machines or processes as data structures e.g. type instances within this organizational hierarchy to provide context for data generated and stored by devices within the enterprise relative to the enterprise as a whole. Such a convention can replace the flat name structure employed by some industrial applications.

Returning now to plant context component can gather information that facilitates locating a cloud aware smart device within an organizational or device hierarchy in a number of ways. In one example plant context component can identify a topology of devices sharing a common network with cloud aware smart device and interconnections between the devices. For example if cloud aware smart device is an industrial controller plant context component can identify one or more discrete or analog I O devices connected to the controller. Plant context component can also identify one or more low level control systems that exchange data with the controller such as vision systems barcode marking systems variable frequency drives industrial robots or the like which perform local control of portions of the industrial process or which have their own localized control systems but which are subservient to the industrial controller. In addition plant context component can identify other controllers on the network and their role within the overall industrial enterprise e.g. the production areas workcells or processes associated with the respective controllers . In some embodiments plant context component can also determine an identity of a particular network e.g. a network name to which cloud aware smart device is attached. This information can be leveraged either by profile generation component or an external application to determine the device s location and role within the industrial automation system since some networks may be dedicated to a particular production area. Some embodiments of plant context component may also identify a type of machine to which cloud aware smart device is connected e.g. a palletizer wrapper conveyor etc. .

To facilitate determining the plant context of cloud aware smart device plant context component may also leverage global positioning GPS information provided by GPS component . GPS component can determine a geographical location of cloud aware smart device . In one or more embodiments GPS component can comprise an integrated GPS that determines the location using satellite navigation signals. In other embodiments GPS component can employ non GPS technique to determine location e.g. wireless triangulation . Location data provided by GPS component can be use to determine a placement of cloud aware smart device within the enterprise or device hierarchy. For example based on the GPS location data plant context component or a cloud based application in receipt of device profile can determine that cloud aware smart device is located at a particular plant facility or within a particular production area of a plant. Based on this information profile generation component determines that cloud aware smart device is associated with the particular facility and or production area within the enterprise hierarchy

By gathering information about the local device topology plant context component can facilitate identifying a location of cloud aware smart device within the enterprise hierarchy. In some embodiments this determination of the location within the enterprise hierarchy can be made by plant context component itself. Alternatively profile generation component can include information gathered by plant context component in device profile so that an external application e.g. a cloud based application can accurately represent cloud aware smart device within the enterprise or device hierarchy.

Role component can generate information regarding a role of cloud aware smart device within the industrial automation system. This role information can be based a type of the device e.g. industrial controller telemetry device sensor human machine interface terminal vision camera variable frequency drive etc. combined with system specific context information such as information gathered by plant context component . For example if cloud aware smart device is an HMI terminal and information generated by plant context component determines that the HMI terminal is connected to an industrial controller that monitors and controls a particular batch process in a particular production area of the plant role component can determine that the role of cloud aware smart device is to act as an operator interface for the batch process. Likewise if cloud aware smart device is a variable frequency drive role component can determine that the role is to control a motor within a particular production area or in connection with a batch process identified by plant context component .

Profile generation component can aggregate information from one or more of the plant context component or role component into device profile which can then be passed to cloud interface component for delivery to one or more cloud based applications or services on the cloud platform e.g. the cloud platform identified in configuration file . This information can be used by the cloud based applications in a number of ways. For example based on information in device profile a cloud based device management application or other such service can deliver suitable configuration information to cloud aware smart device that automatically configures the device for operation within its determined environment. Configuration information can for example instruct cloud aware smart device which data items are to be exchanged with a disparate device in connection with monitoring and or controlling a given industrial process. This can include automatically configuring one or more data tags within cloud aware smart device for communication with appropriate data tags within the disparate device thereby establishing a communicative link between the devices. Configuration information can also configure one or more operating parameters of cloud aware smart device based on information in device profile and information about the industrial system e.g. the enterprise or device hierarchy maintained on the cloud platform.

Cloud aware smart device can also include interface component which receives user input data and or renders output data to the user. Capabilities of interface component depend on the type of the smart device. For example interface component may be associated with a touch screen if cloud aware smart device is an HMI terminal or a device having a touch sensitive configuration and display screen. Interface component can also allow the user to enter certain cloud specific configuration information in connection with one or more functions described above. For example a user may interact with interface component to set an address e.g. a uniform resource locator of the cloud platform. Users may also interact with interface component to configure whether cloud aware smart device is allowed to push data to or pull data from the cloud platform. Interface component may also render an indication that cloud aware smart device has been successfully integrated with the system after configuration information has been received and processed.

Device profile can include a device identifier that uniquely identifies a name of cloud aware smart device as well as information specifying a type of the device e.g. industrial controller VFD HMI terminal sensor meter machining robot etc. . Device profile can also include a list of available I O or other data items associated with cloud aware smart device . For example if cloud aware smart device is an industrial controller device profile can identify one or more controller tags configured in the controller s data table thereby informing cloud based applications and services of the available data items made available by the controller. In one or more embodiments profile generation component can determine at least some of this information by examining the controller s I O module configuration to identify field devices associated with the controller s respective I O data points. If cloud aware smart device is a machine level or plant level data historian device profile can identify available archived data values available for retrieval from the historian. This information can be used for example by cloud based historian clients or reporting applications to facilitate location and retrieval of relevant data from devices distributed throughout various areas or levels of a plant.

In addition to information about a location and role of cloud aware smart device as well as devices proximate to the device device profile can report an available amount of resources to cloud platform . This can include for example available storage or processing resources available I O points available bandwidth or other such resource information. In an exemplary scenario a cloud based device management application can leverage this information to manage load balancing between industrial devices. In another scenario a cloud based historian application can use the available resource information collected from multiple devices to determine whether historian data stored on a first device should be migrated to a second device having faster processing capability thereby facilitating quicker retrieval times for the data.

Device profile can also indicate data items that are required by cloud aware smart device . For example cloud aware smart device may be a variable frequency drive VFD that controls a speed and direction of a motor that drives a pump and requires a pressure value from a pressure meter associated with the pump for its operation. This data requirement can be included in device profile and can be used by a cloud based device management service to remotely configure a tag within the VFD e.g. using configuration information that points to the appropriate data tag in the meter or another location that has the required data such as a live data server that reads the pressure value from the meter . The device management service can locate the required data for example by referencing a data model of the industrial system maintained by the service as described above in connection with . Profile generation component can also include device health or status information in device profile . This information can be used by some cloud based applications to remotely manage device functionality e.g. instruct a device to take over functions of a second device that reports an inoperable status generate event based notifications reporting an inoperable device or other such functions.

In the present example cloud based smart device communicates with a device management system running on the cloud platform. Device management system can facilitate automatic and dynamic configuration of cloud aware smart device for operation within the existing industrial automation system. To this end cloud based device management system can maintain a data model that models the industrial enterprise and devices therein. Data model can represent the industrial enterprise in terms of multiple hierarchical levels e.g. the levels described in connection with where each level comprises units of the enterprise organized as instances of types and their properties. Exemplary types can include for example assets e.g. pumps extruders tanks fillers welding cells utility meters etc. structures e.g. production lines production areas plants enterprises production schedules operators etc. and processes e.g. quality audit repairs test inspection batch product parameters shifts etc. .

Data model allows devices of an automation system and data items stored therein to be described and identified in terms of these hierarchical levels allowing a common terminology to be used across the entire enterprise to identify devices and data associated with those devices. Thus individual items of device data e.g. live analog and digital values stored in controller tags archived data values stored in a historian register or other long term data storage device etc. when integrated into data model can be identified and viewed by other applications using unique tags defined by data model . For example through adherence to data model a given item of data within cloud aware smart device can be identified with a tag or identifier that indicates the data item s origin or context within the organizational hierarchy e.g. SoCal DieCastArea 1HeadlineMachine DowntimeTracking DowntimeMinutes . Data model can represent industrial controllers devices machines or processes as data structures e.g. type instances within this organizational hierarchy to provide context for data generated and stored throughout the enterprise relative to the enterprise as a whole. Thus data model provides context enhancement that replaces the flat name structure that may be employed within the individual historians.

Device management system can leverage device profile information provided by cloud aware smart device e.g. device profile or to facilitate auto discovery of the smart device and creation of corresponding data structures representing the smart device in data model . For example when cloud aware smart device is added to an industrial system of an enterprise the device s cloud interface component can send a device profile for the device to device management system on the cloud platform. Device management system can thereby automatically detect the device and determine the device s context within the organizational hierarchy modeled by data model and reconfigure data model to incorporate the newly added device at the appropriate location within the organizational hierarchy. This can include identifying data tags available within cloud aware smart device and making those data tags available for viewing or retrieval by authorized applications using the hierarchical naming structure defined by data model .

Cloud interface component can also receive configuration information from device management system e.g. configuration information that facilitates integration of the smart device with other devices of the automation system. For example if the device profile indicates that cloud aware smart device requires a particular data value from another device for its operation e.g. a metered pressure value for a particular flow line device management system may locate a source for the required data by accessing data model and remotely configure cloud aware smart device to communicatively link to the data source. This can involve for example remotely configuring a data tag within cloud aware smart device to read data from a data tag in a controller live data server or meter that contains the required data.

In some embodiments cloud aware smart device can generate a portion of the device hierarchy represented by data model and provide this information to the cloud platform to facilitate accurately representing this portion of the device hierarchy within data model . For example if cloud aware smart device is an industrial controller that monitors and or controls one or more production areas the smart industrial controller can generate a hierarchical representation of the production areas production lines workcells etc. of which it has knowledge as well as devices associated therewith e.g. I O devices or subservient control systems that interface with the industrial controller . Cloud interface component can provide this portion of the enterprise hierarchy to the cloud platform and device management system can update data model accordingly.

By providing device profile information to remote cloud based applications in this manner cloud aware smart devices can be simply and automatically integrated into an automation system. These techniques can also facilitate dynamic management of multiple smart devices in response to system changes. For example cloud aware smart devices can detect and report changes in their status or changes to their surrounding context to cloud based applications e.g. device management system historian applications operator interface applications etc. which can respond accordingly in view of the overall plant topology. Data provided by cloud aware smart device together with data model can be leveraged by any suitable cloud services residing on the cloud platform. A number of such cloud based applications will be described in more detail below.

As noted above in some exemplary configuration cloud aware smart devices may communicate with the cloud platform through a cloud gateway or proxy rather than communicating directly with the cloud platform. Such a configuration can mitigate exposure of mission critical industrial devices directly to the Internet by instead routing communication through a single protected proxy device. illustrates an exemplary configuration in which a firewall box serves as a cloud gateway for a set of cloud aware smart devices . Cloud aware smart devices are similar to smart devices described above. However rather than communicate directly to the cloud platform the cloud interface components of the respective devices communicate with cloud gateway services running on a firewall box . Firewall box can act as a network infrastructure device that allows plant network to access an outside network such as the Internet while also providing firewall protection that prevents unauthorized access to the plant network from the Internet. That is firewall box can manage transfer of data packets between the plant network and the Internet to facilitate secure access to outside networks by devices on the plant network . In addition to these firewall functions the firewall box can include a cloud interface component that interfaces firewall box with one or more cloud based applications on a cloud platform e.g. cloud based services or . In this exemplary embodiment firewall box can receive industrial data from cloud aware smart devices which monitor and control respective portions of controlled process es . Firewall box can also optionally include a transformation component not shown which applies suitable transformations to the gathered data prior to pushing the data to the cloud platform as cloud data . Firewall box may also optionally include an encryption component not shown configured to encrypt the industrial data using any suitable encryption method. Thus the firewall box can allow cloud aware smart devices to interact with the cloud platform without directly exposing the industrial devices to the Internet. Although the cloud proxy device is depicted as being a firewall box in the present example it is to be appreciated that such a cloud proxy can be embodied on any suitable type of device e.g. a stand alone computer another smart industrial device etc. .

In one or more embodiments cloud interface component can also receive data from the cloud platform and route this data to one or more of the cloud aware smart devices . For example a cloud based service may be an enterprise resource management ERP system that analyzes production data in view of one or more defined business goals and generates production schedule information based on the analysis. Accordingly firewall box can receive the required production data from cloud aware smart devices as industrial data optionally transform and or encrypt the production data and provide the production data to the cloud based ERP system as cloud data . In response the cloud based ERP system can analyze the production data and generate updated production schedule information designed to ensure that one or more defined business goals are met e.g. fulfill a given customer order maintain total plant energy usage below a defined peak demand etc. . The cloud based ERP system can provide this scheduling information to the firewall box via cloud interface component which can then route the scheduling information to the appropriate cloud aware smart devices .

Although the foregoing examples have focused on smart devices at the control level of the enterprise the cloud aware smart devices described herein can also be embodied as devices on an office or business level to facilitate comprehensive enterprise wide integration of plant floor and business side systems. illustrates an exemplary network architecture that includes a firewall box that routes smart device data from a plant level and a business level to a cloud platform. In this example an industrial enterprise includes both a plant network and business network . Plant network communicatively connects one or more control level smart devices e.g. industrial controllers telemetry devices motion devices etc. on the plant floor. Plant network can facilitate communication between the control level smart devices using any suitable network technology or protocol including but not limited to Ethernet Ethernet IP DeviceNet ControlNet Data Highway and Data Highway Plus DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus wireless networks or serial protocols. On the business level of the enterprise business network interconnects one or more business level smart devices using a suitable office network protocol e.g. TCP IP over Ethernet . For example business network can be an office network that interconnects employee desktop or laptop computers to an office server printing devices or other office equipment. Business level smart devices can include for example servers that execute ERP systems financial systems reporting systems billing systems and the like. Business level smart devices can also comprise office side visualization terminals for viewing data relating to the plant level systems business level or enterprise level historian servers that archive plant level data for long term storage or other such business level systems.

In the present example both the plant network and the business network can access the Internet through firewall box which manages access to outside networks while protecting both the plant network and business network from unauthorized access from outside entities. The firewall box can also route data packets between the plant network and the business network e.g. CIP data packets from the plant network and TCP IP data packets from the business network . In addition to these routing and firewall protection capabilities firewall box can include a cloud interface component similar to cloud interface component described in connection with . For example the cloud interface component running on firewall box can receive data e.g. device profiles status data telemetry data etc. from control level smart devices over plant network and send the data as cloud data to the cloud platform as described in previous examples thereby allowing the data to be utilized by one or more cloud services running on the cloud platform. Likewise cloud interface component can receive similar device data from business level smart devices and provide this data to the cloud platform. In an exemplary configuration a device management system similar to device management system can leverage the data from smart devices on the plant level and the business level to update and maintain the organizational and device hierarchy of data model . Other cloud services can then use data model in connection with their respective functions. For example cloud based reporting historian or visualization systems can use data model to locate desired data distributed throughout various plant level and business level smart devices of the enterprise. Data model can also provide a means to browse the hierarchical namespace represented by the data model to locate particular data items. In another example cloud based notification systems which remotely monitor plant floor data and generate notifications in response to defined production conditions can reference data model to determine a context for a given notification e.g. a production area at which a notification originated etc. .

Moreover as with firewall box of some embodiments of cloud interface component can receive data from cloud services e.g. a cloud based ERP application a cloud based HMI application etc. and provision the received data to appropriate control level or business level smart devices. For example a cloud based ERP or HMI service may attempt to write a new setpoint value to a selected controller. Cloud interface component can receive this new setpoint value and write the new value to the appropriate data tag in the selected controller over plant network .

Providing smart industrial devices with cloud awareness can allow such devices to be easily integrated with cloud based industrial applications. For example illustrates a high level overview of a cloud based operator interface system that collects and aggregates data from multiple industrial systems and visualizes the data on Internet capable client devices. Cloud based operator interface system can interact with suitable client devices to implement substantially any type of industrial operator interface system including but not limited to human machine interfaces HMIs graphic terminal systems industrial monitors message display systems or other such operator interface applications. Accordingly the term operator interface as used throughout this disclosure is to be understood to encompass all such industrial display systems.

Cloud based operator interface system resides on a cloud platform. Industrial systems include respective cloud aware smart devices which push industrial data relating to the industrial systems to the cloud platform for collection and processing at the cloud based operator interface system . Industrial systems may be for example automation systems located at respective manufacturing or processing facilities. One or more of the industrial systems may also be mobile systems e.g. systems embedded in service or cargo vehicles that are to be monitored and or controlled regardless of their location. Typically the industrial systems will belong to a common industrial enterprise or business and the cloud based operator interface system can be made available to the enterprise as a subscription service.

As described in previous examples cloud aware smart devices can generate respective device profiles upon installation and provide these device profiles to the cloud platform. In the present example cloud based operator interface system can leverage data provided by in the device profiles to add cloud aware smart devices to the interface system. For example the device profiles may include device identifiers and a list of available data points that can be provided by the respective smart devices . Accordingly cloud based operator interface system can add new graphics text display objects or numerical display objects to one or more operator interface screens served by the system and link the new display objects to one or more of the available data points identified in the device profiles. In some embodiments cloud based operator interface system can reference a hierarchical data model of the industrial enterprise e.g. data models or to establish the link between the new display objects and the data points within smart devices . Cloud based operator interface system can also use the hierarchical data model or data within the device profiles to determine where the new display objects should be displayed e.g. which display screens and at which locations on the screens . For example one of the cloud aware smart devices may generate a device profile that includes context information specifying that the device is located in a particular production area of a particular plant facility e.g. Location . Accordingly cloud based operator interface system can determine that production data provided by this device should be located on a display screen associated with the identified production area and facility.

Once the smart devices have been configured cloud based operator interface system can receive industrial data from the devices relating to industrial systems and make the data available to client devices associated with users having appropriate access privileges to the data. If the industrial data is to be stored for historian or reporting purposes cloud based operator interface system can store the data on cloud based storage associated with the cloud platform. Client devices can access cloud based operator interface system through a generic Internet level. To facilitate viewing of the industrial data cloud based operator interface system can serve display screens to the client devices that can be viewed using the devices native display capabilities. The display screens can be preconfigured by an administrator of the cloud based operator interface system although some embodiments can allow the owners of the client devices to customize the way the industrial data is presented on the respective devices. Client devices can be personal device such as mobile phones having graphical display capabilities desktop or laptop computers tablet computers or other such devices. Client devices may also be industrial display devices such as HMI display terminals graphic terminals industrial monitors message displays television monitors or the like.

In one or more embodiments cloud based operator interface system can apply cloud side processing to the industrial data to facilitate presenting the data in meaningful ways to the client devices . For example cloud based operator interface system can add context to incoming production data e.g. a time date stamp a location associated with the data machine statuses at the time the data was generated etc. . Cloud based operator interface system may also aggregate data from multiple industrial systems according to predefined aggregation rules defined by the user. Using these tools in the context of a cloud based operator interface system data from geographically diverse industrial systems can be collected correlated and aggregated to generate unified enterprise level presentations of the industrial systems as a whole.

In another exemplary application cloud aware smart devices can be used in connection with cloud based notification services for notifying relevant personnel of a detected system event. illustrates an exemplary notification architecture according to one or more embodiments of this disclosure. In this example one or more controlled processes are monitored and or controlled by cloud aware smart device which can be an industrial controller a sensor a meter a motor drive or other such device. Cloud aware smart device collects industrial data from controlled process es or generates process data internally based on monitored conditions of the controlled process es . In the present example cloud based notification system residing on the cloud platform is configured to receive industrial data from cloud aware smart device via cloud interface component and to route notifications to appropriate plant personnel in accordance with predefined notification criteria.

As described in previous examples cloud interface component can establish communication with the cloud platform upon installation and send a device profile to notification system providing information regarding the device s role geographical location location within the plant or enterprise hierarchy available data and other such information. Notification system can use this device profile information to integrate the cloud aware smart device and configure the device for operation with the cloud based notification services. For example notification system can determine which of the available data items reported in the device profile are to be associated with notification criteria and begin monitoring those data points using information provided in the device profile to establish communication links to the appropriate data tags in the device. Thereafter cloud interface component provides the monitored data to the cloud platform as industrial data .

On the cloud platform analytics component can determine whether selected subsets of the industrial data or aggregations thereof meet one or more predefined notification conditions. These can include such conditions as detecting that a particular process value has exceeded a defined setpoint detecting a transition to a particular machine state detecting an alarm condition determining that a specified production goal has been achieved or other such conditions that can be detected through analysis of the industrial data . When analytics component detects an actionable condition within the industrial data analytics component can inform notification component that personnel are to be notified. In response notification component can identify one or more specific plant employees who are to receive the notification as well as information identifying a user notification device phone number or email address for each person to be notified.

In one or more embodiments notification component can determine this notification information by cross referencing a configuration file that identifies which personnel are to be notified for a given type of condition one or more notification methods for each identified person and or other relevant information. When analytics component determines that a subset of the industrial data requires action to be taken by plant personnel notification component can reference the configuration file to determine for example which personnel should be notified which user devices should receive the notification a required action to be taken by the recipient a due date for the action a format for the notification and or other relevant information. Configuration file can maintain multiple separate personnel lists respectively associated with different types of actionable situations. In some embodiments the personnel list selected for a given notification can be at least partly a function of the context data provided by the device profile during initial configuration. For example if industrial data indicates that a process parameter has exceeded a setpoint value notification component can identify the list of personnel to receive the notification based on the area or workcell to which the process parameter relates wherein the area or workcell is identified based on context data provided by the cloud aware smart device during initial configuration e.g. geographical location of the device location of the device within the plant hierarchy etc. .

Once notification component had determined appropriate personnel and devices to be notified notification component can deliver notifications to one or more notification destinations. The notification can be sent to one or more identified Internet capable client devices such as a phone a tablet computer a desktop computer or other suitable devices. In some embodiments a cloud application running on the cloud platform can provide a mechanism for notified personnel to communicate with one another via the cloud e.g. establish a conference call using Voice over IP . In some embodiments the notification component can be configured to send the notification periodically at a defined frequency until the user positively responds to the notification e.g. by sending a manual acknowledgement via the client devices . Notification component can also be configured to escalate an urgency of high priority notifications if an acknowledgment is not received within a predetermined amount of time. This urgency escalation can entail sending the notification at a gradually increasing frequency sending the notification to devices associated with secondary personnel if the primary personnel do not respond within a defined time period or other such escalation measures.

Cloud aware smart devices can also automate management of distributed historian data via a cloud platform. illustrates an exemplary architecture for a cloud based historian system that manages and provisions historian data distributed across multiple smart devices. In this example historian data interface system resides and executes on cloud platform as a cloud based service. In some scenarios access to cloud platform and historian data interface system can be provided to customers as a subscription service. Alternatively historian data interface system can be owned and maintained by the end user and executed on a cloud platform belonging to or provisioned to the user.

In this example a plurality of cloud capable smart devices are seen as a historian network distributed across multiple areas and or levels of the industrial enterprise. That is the respective smart devices can have associated therewith respective data historians H HN that act as local storage for data generated or monitored by the respective devices. Turning briefly to a high level overview of an exemplary industrial enterprise having data storage devices e.g. historians at various hierarchical levels is illustrated. The exemplary industrial enterprise comprises a lower control and sensing level a middle control level and an enterprise level. However it is to be appreciated that the integrated architecture described herein is suitable for use in any industrial environment comprising any configuration of enterprise levels.

The lower control and sensing level comprises industrial devices and which are monitored and controlled by industrial controllers . Industrial devices and can comprise field devices and systems that provide data to or receive data from the industrial controllers in connection with monitor and control of one or more industrial processes carried out on the plant floor. Accordingly industrial devices and can include such controller input devices as sensors telemetry devices meters or the like. Industrial devices and can also include controller output devices such as actuators motor drives and contactors or other such controllable devices. Industrial devices and may also include low level control systems such as vision systems barcode marking systems variable frequency drives industrial robots and the like which perform local control of portions of the industrial process or which have their own localized control systems but which are subservient to the industrial controllers on the middle control layer.

Industrial controllers can be for example programmable logic controllers PLCs or other programmable automation controllers PACs and facilitate monitor and control of one or more industrial automation systems via the industrial devices and . Exemplary automation systems can include but are not limited to batch control systems e.g. mixing systems continuous control systems e.g. PID control systems or discrete control systems. The controllers exchange data with the industrial devices and using native hardwired I O or via a plant network such as Ethernet IP Data Highway Plus ControlNet Devicenet or the like. Industrial controllers typically receive any combination of digital or analog signals from the industrial devices and indicating a current state of the devices and their associated processes e.g. temperature position part presence or absence fluid level etc. and execute user defined control programs that perform automated decision making for the controlled processes based on the received signals. Industrial controllers then output digital and or analog control signaling to the industrial devices and in accordance with the decisions made by the control program. These outputs can include device actuation signals temperature or position control signals motion control commands operational commands to a machining or material handling robot mixer control signals and the like. The control programs can comprise any suitable type of code used to process input signals read into the industrial controllers and to control output signals generated by the industrial controllers including but not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such platforms. Any of industrial devices and or industrial controllers can incorporate the cloud capabilities and smart configuration functions described in previous examples to facilitate automated integration and management of the respective devices.

In exemplary industrial enterprise industrial controllers reside on plant network which provides networked connectivity between controllers . One or more of industrial devices and may also reside on plant network . Plant network can utilize any suitable networking architecture and protocol including but not limited to Control and Information Protocol CIP Ethernet Ethernet IP Data Highway Plus ControlNet Devicenet or the like.

The enterprise level can comprise the business side of the enterprise and can include such business operations as financial analysis marketing sales order management long term business planning resource management inventory management and the like. The enterprise level can also include systems that leverage industrial data generated by and received from the two plant floor levels such as reporting systems and Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system which correlate and manage high level business functions in view of plant floor operations. An office network can interconnect one or more office systems residing on the enterprise level using a suitable office network protocol e.g. TCP IP over Ethernet . For example office network can interconnects employee desktop or laptop computers to an office server printing devices or other office equipment. Office network may also be connected to plant network e.g. through a router or firewall to facilitate aggregation of data from the plant floor at the enterprise level.

Devices on the middle control level and the lower control and sensing level can generate large amounts of data relating to control and monitoring of one or more industrial automation systems. Accordingly any of the industrial controllers and or the industrial devices and may have associated therewith respective data historians e.g. historians H HN where N is an integer that act as local storage for the data generated by the respective devices. Each of historians H HN can offer a platform that provides high speed time series data storage and retrieval from multiple controllers or devices. Historians H HN can communicate with industrial controllers and industrial devices and through standard network interfaces or across the controllers respective backplanes.

Exemplary industrial enterprise also includes an enterprise level historical database which can provide long term storage of plant floor or business side data. Historical database thus serves as an enterprise level data historian H . As illustrated in historians H HN are distributed across various levels of the industrial enterprise to facilitate data collection across the organizational hierarchy.

Returning now to historian data interface system residing on cloud platform can provide tools for correlating viewing and managing the data stored across the enterprise in historians H HN. To this end historian data interface system can provide a common interface for distributed historians H HN that allows users to access the historian data facilitates creation of meaningful views of the data and other historian management features. Historian data interface system can correlate the respective historians H HN residing on the multiple levels of the enterprise such that data stored on any historian can be seamlessly accessed from a common interface or through a common protocol.

If cloud platform is a web based cloud smart devices associated with historians H HN of historian network may interact with historian data interface system directly or via the Internet. In an exemplary configuration historians H HN may interact with historian data interface system through cloud interface components of their respective smart devices either directly or through a cloud gateway or proxy.

Cloud based historian data interface system can leverage data model similar to data models and in connection with historian configuration management viewing and reporting. As in previous examples when a new cloud aware smart device is added at any level of the enterprise the smart device will communicatively connect to the cloud platform and provide a device profile containing information regarding the device s identity role within the enterprise geographic location local context available data etc. Historian data interface system can then update data model to include type instances representing the new device at appropriate locations within the enterprise hierarchy e.g. based on the location and context information in the device profile . Data model can then be used by historian data interface system to provide a unified view of data stored in distributed historians H HN allowing a user to view and retrieve selected subsets of the historian data.

For example historian data interface system can provide a common historian interface to client devices having Internet capability and suitable access privileges. Accordingly historian data interface system includes a client interface component configured to receive data retrieval requests from client devices and to render selected subsets of historian data to the client devices in response to the requests. Through client interface component historian data interface system can deliver any preconfigured interface screens to the client devices and allow the user to remotely request and view historian data stored in historians H HN through interaction with these screens. Historian data interface system can also facilitate remote configuration of historians H HN via cloud platform . In some embodiments client interface component can present browsable hierarchical view of smart device data tags distributed throughout the enterprise e.g. controller tags located within industrial controllers of where the controller tags represent data items being monitored or generated by the respective controllers e.g. a meter value a machine state a production count etc. . The hierarchical view of the controller tags can accord to data model which defines the hierarchical levels of the organization the devices comprising each level and the hierarchical relationships between the devices.

In another exemplary application a migration component can be configured to replicate or migrate selected sets of historian data from historians H HN to cloud storage on cloud platform allowing the data to be quickly retrieved by client devices . Migration component can also replicate historian data residing on cloud storage back to historians H HN if required providing a mechanism for reliable cloud based backup storage of historian data. To facilitate access level granularity cloud storage associated with cloud platform can be partitioned such that portions of cloud storage can be selectively masked or unmasked to respective parties. With cloud storage partitioned in this manner migration component can be configured to migrate or replicate a first subset of historian data to a first partition having full public access settings and a second subset of historian data to a second partition set as private where access to historian data on the second partition is granted only to users having suitable access privileges.

In some embodiments cloud based historian data interface system can also be configured to perform cloud side analytics on historian data stored in historians H HN and generate reports alarms or notifications based on results of these analytics. For example historian data interface system can operate in conjunction with a cloud based notification system e.g. notification system to issue notifications to selected client devices in response to a determination that a subset of historian data stored in historians H HN has met one or more predefined conditions. These conditions can include for example detecting that a particular process value has exceeded a defined setpoint detecting a transition to a particular machine state detecting an alarm condition determining that a specified production goal has been achieved or other such conditions that can be detected through analysis of the historian data.

Historian data interface system can also leverage data model in connection with aggregating historian data between historians H HN. For example an administrator may configure the system to aggregate historical data stored on the middle or lower control levels to historians on the enterprise level for long term archival storage when such data has reached a certain age e.g. archive plant floor data to an enterprise level storage device when the data has become a week old . Accordingly migration component can determine suitable enterprise level devices for long term storage of the data by referencing the organizational hierarchy represented by data model and send instructions to relevant historians on historian network to aggregate the data from the plant level devices to the identified enterprise level device. Thus dynamic device and historian configuration made possible by the cloud aware smart devices described herein can simplify and substantially automate many functions associated with collection and management of plant historian data.

Embodiments systems and components described herein as well as industrial control systems and industrial automation environments in which various aspects set forth in the subject specification can be carried out can include computer or network components such as servers clients programmable logic controllers PLCs automation controllers communications modules mobile computers wireless components control components and so forth which are capable of interacting across a network. Computers and servers include one or more processors electronic integrated circuits that perform logic operations employing electric signals configured to execute instructions stored in media such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard drives as well as removable memory devices which can include memory sticks memory cards flash drives external hard drives and so on.

Similarly the term PLC or automation controller as used herein can include functionality that can be shared across multiple components systems and or networks. As an example one or more PLCs or automation controllers can communicate and cooperate with various network devices across the network. This can include substantially any type of control communications module computer Input Output I O device sensor actuator and human machine interface HMI that communicate via the network which includes control automation and or public networks. The PLC or automation controller can also communicate to and control various other devices such as I O modules including analog digital programmed intelligent I O modules other programmable controllers communications modules sensors actuators output devices and the like.

The network can include public networks such as the internet intranets and automation networks such as control and information protocol CIP networks including DeviceNet ControlNet and Ethernet IP. Other networks include Ethernet DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus CAN wireless networks serial protocols and so forth. In addition the network devices can include various possibilities hardware and or software components . These include components such as switches with virtual local area network VLAN capability LANs WANs proxies gateways routers firewalls virtual private network VPN devices servers clients computers configuration tools monitoring tools and or other devices.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented.

With reference to an example environment for implementing various aspects of the aforementioned subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Multi core microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to 8 bit bus Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapters are provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 Token Ring IEEE 802.5 and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the disclosed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the disclosed subject matter includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the disclosed subject matter.

In addition while a particular feature of the disclosed subject matter may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

In this application the word exemplary is used to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

