---

title: Methods and apparatus for analyzing samples and collecting sample fractions
abstract: Methods and apparatus for analyzing a sample using at least one detector are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09322813&OS=09322813&RS=09322813
owner: Alltech Associates, Inc.
number: 09322813
owner_city: Columbia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121119
---
The present invention is directed to methods and apparatus for analyzing samples and collecting sample fractions with a chromatography system.

There is a need in the art for methods of efficiently and effectively analyzing samples and collecting sample fractions with a chromatography system. There is also a need in the art for an apparatus capable of effectively analyzing samples and collecting sample fractions.

The present invention relates to the discovery of methods for analyzing samples and collecting sample fractions with a chromatography system. The disclosed methods provide a number of advantages over known methods of analyzing samples. For example the disclosed methods of the present invention may utilize a splitter pump or a shuttle valve to actively control fluid flow through at least one detector so that process variables e.g. flow restrictions total flow rate temperature and or solvent composition do not negatively impact the fluid flow through the at least one detector. The disclosed methods of the present invention may also utilize two or more detectors to provide a more complete analysis of a given sample as well as collection of one or more sample fractions in response to one or more detector signals from the two or more detectors.

The present invention is directed to methods of analyzing samples and collecting sample fractions. In one exemplary embodiment the method of analyzing a sample comprises the steps of generating a composite signal from two or more detectors in a liquid chromatography system the composite signal comprising a detection response component from each detector and collecting a new sample fraction in a fraction collector in response to a change in the composite signal. In one embodiment the composite signal may comprise i a detection response component from at least one optical absorbance detector e.g. an UV detector and ii a detection response component from at least one evaporative particle detector. In one embodiment chromophoric or non chromophoric solvents may be utilized in the chromatography system as the carrier fluid. In another embodiment the composite signal may comprise i a detection response component comprising two or more detector responses from an optical absorbance detector e.g. an UV detector at two or more specific optical wavelengths and ii a detection response component from an evaporative particle detector.

In a further exemplary embodiment according to the present invention the method of analyzing a sample using chromatography comprises the steps of using at least one detector to observe the sample that comprises at least one non chromaphoric analyte compound and collecting a new sample fraction in a fraction collector in response to a change in a detector response of the non chromaphoric compound. The sample may include numerous different chromaphoric and non chromaphoric compounds. In addition the mobile phase that carries the sample may include one or more chromaphoric or non chromaphoric compounds.

In another embodiment universal carrier fluid may be utilized in the chromatography system including volatile liquids and various gases. In a further embodiment a non destructive detector e.g. RI UV detector etc. may be combined with a destructive detector e.g. evaporative particle detector mass spectrometer spectrophotometer emission spectroscopy NMR etc. which enables detection of various compound specific properties of the sample such as for example the chemical entity associated with the peak.

In a further exemplary embodiment the method of analyzing a sample comprises the steps of using at least one detector to observe the sample at two or more specific optical wavelengths and collecting a new sample fraction in a fraction collector in response to i a change in a detector response at a first wavelength ii a change in a detector response at a second wavelength or iii a change in a composite response represented by the detector responses at the first and second wavelengths. A change in a given detector response may include but is not limited to a change in a detector response value reaching or exceeding a threshold detector response value a slope of the detector response value over time a threshold slope of the detector response value over time a change in a slope of the detector response value over time a threshold change in a slope of the detector response value over time or any combination thereof. In this embodiment the method may comprise using n sensors in at least one detector to observe n specific wavelengths across a range of an absorbance spectrum wherein n is an integer greater than 1 and collecting a new sample fraction in the fraction collector in response to i a change in any one of n detector responses from the n sensors or ii a change in a composite response represented by the n detector responses.

In yet a further exemplary embodiment the method of analyzing a sample comprises the steps of providing a liquid chromatography system comprising i a chromatography column ii a tee having a first inlet a first outlet and a second outlet iii a fraction collector in fluid communication with the first outlet of the tee and iv a detector in fluid communication with the second outlet of the tee and actively controlling fluid flow through the detector via v a splitter pump positioned in fluid communication with the second outlet of the tee and the detector. In other exemplary embodiments a shuttle valve may be used in place of the tee and splitter pump to actively control fluid flow through to at least one detector. In an exemplary embodiment the shuttle valve is a continuous flow shuttle valve with the ability to remove very small sample volumes from the sample stream.

In an even further exemplary embodiment of the present invention a method of analyzing a sample of fluid using chromatography includes the steps of providing a first fluid of effluent from a chromatography column providing a second fluid to carry the sample of fluid to at least one detector using a shuttle valve to remove an aliquot sample of fluid from the first fluid and transfer the aliquot to the second fluid while maintaining a continuous path of the second fluid through the shuttle valve using at least one detector to observe the aliquot sample of fluid and collecting a new sample fraction of the first fluid in a fraction collector in response to a change in a detector response. In one embodiment a continuous flow path of the first fluid through the shuttle valve is maintained when the aliquot sample of fluid is removed from the first fluid. In another embodiment continuous flow paths of both the first fluid and the second fluid through the shuffle valve are maintained when the aliquot sample of fluid is removed from the first fluid and transferred to the second fluid.

In another exemplary embodiment according to the present invention a method of analyzing a sample of fluid using chromatography includes the steps of providing a first fluid comprising the sample using a shuttle valve to remove an aliquot sample of fluid from the first fluid without substantially affecting flow properties of the first fluid through the shuttle valve using at least one detector to observe the aliquot sample of fluid and collecting a new sample fraction of the first stream in a fraction collector in response to a change in at least one detector response. The flow of the first fluid through the shuttle valve may be substantially laminar due to the first fluid path or channel being substantially linear or straight through at least a portion of the valve. In a further exemplary embodiment the pressure of the first fluid through the shuttle valve remains substantially constant and or it does not substantially increase. In another embodiment the flow rate of the first fluid may be substantially constant through the shuttle valve. In an alternative embodiment a second fluid is utilized to carry the aliquot sample of fluid from the shuttle valve to the detector s . The flow of the second fluid through the shuttle valve may be substantially laminar due to the second fluid path or channel being substantially linear or straight through at least a portion of the valve. In an exemplary embodiment the pressure of the second fluid through the shuttle valve is substantially constant and or it does not substantially increase. In another embodiment the flow rate of the second fluid may be substantially constant through the shuttle valve.

In a further exemplary embodiment the method of analyzing a sample comprises the steps of providing a non destructive system liquid chromatography system comprising i a chromatography column ii two or more non destructive detectors e.g. an optical absorbance detector such as a UV detector with no destructive detectors e.g. a mass spectrometer present in the system and iii a fraction collector in fluid communication with the two or more non destructive detectors and collecting one or more sample fractions in response to detector signals from the two or more non destructive detectors.

In another exemplary embodiment according to the present invention a method of analyzing a sample using flash chromatography includes the steps of using an evaporative particle detector to observe the sample that is capable of detecting individual compounds and collecting a new sample fraction in a fraction collector in response to a change in a detector response of the compound wherein the evaporative particle detector is the only detector utilized to analyze the sample. The evaporative particle detector is capable of detecting chemical composition chemical structure molecular weight or other chemical or physical properties. The detector may include an ELSD CNLSD or mass spectrometer.

In yet a further exemplary embodiment the method of analyzing a sample comprises the steps of generating a detector signal from at least one detector in a liquid chromatography system the detector signal being generated in response to i the slope of a detector response as a function of time i.e. the first derivative of a detector response ii a change in the slope of the detector response as a function of time i.e. the second derivative of the detector response iii optionally reaching or exceeding a threshold detector response value or iv any combination of i to iii desirably comprising at least i or at least ii and collecting one or more sample fractions in response to at least one detector signal from the at least one detector.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the method of analyzing a sample comprises the step of collecting a sample fraction in a fraction collector of a liquid chromatography system wherein the fraction collector is operatively adapted to i recognize receive and process one or more signals from at least one detector and ii collect one or more sample fractions based on the one or more signals.

The present invention is also directed to an apparatus capable of analyzing a sample. In one exemplary embodiment the apparatus for analyzing a sample comprises system hardware operatively adapted to generate a composite signal from two or more detectors in a liquid chromatography system the composite signal comprising a detection response component from each detector and a fraction collector operatively adapted to collect a new sample fraction in response to a change in the composite signal.

In another exemplary embodiment the apparatus for analyzing a sample comprises at least one detector operatively adapted to observe two or more specific optical wavelengths e.g. UV wavelengths and a fraction collector operatively adapted to collect a new sample in response to i a change in a detector response at a first wavelength ii a change in a detector response at a second wavelength or iii a change in a composite response represented by the detector responses at the first and second wavelengths. As discussed above a change in a given detector response may include but is not limited to a change in a detector response value reaching or exceeding a threshold detector response value a slope of the detector response value over time a threshold slope of the detector response value over time a change in a slope of the detector response value over time a threshold change in a slope of the detector response value over time or any combination thereof.

The at least one detector may together comprise n sensors to observe a specific wavelengths across a range of an absorbance spectrum wherein n is an integer greater than 1 and the fraction collector is operatively adapted to collect a new sample in response to i a change in any one of a detector responses from the n sensors or ii a change in a composite response represented by the n detector responses. In one embodiment the apparatus comprises a single UV detector comprising n sensors alone or in combination with one or more additional detectors.

In yet a further exemplary embodiment the apparatus for analyzing a sample comprises system hardware that enables generation of a detector signal from at least one detector in a liquid chromatography system the detector signal being generated in response to i the slope of a detector response as a function of time i.e. the first derivative of a detector response ii a change in the slope of the detector response as a function of time i.e. the second derivative of the detector response iii optionally reaching or exceeding a threshold detector response value or iv any combination of i to iii desirably comprising at least i or at least ii . The apparatus may further comprise a fraction collector operatively adapted to collect one or more sample fractions in response to the detector signal from the at least one detector.

In another exemplary embodiment according to the present invention an apparatus for analyzing a sample using chromatography includes at least one detector that are capable of detecting chromaphoric and non chromaphoric analyte compounds in the sample and a fraction collector that is capable of responding to a change in a detector response of the non chromaphoric compound. The sample may include numerous different chromaphoric and non chromaphoric compounds. In addition the mobile phase that carries the sample may include one or more chromaphoric or non chromaphoric compounds.

In yet a further exemplary embodiment the apparatus for analyzing a sample comprises i a chromatography column ii a tee having a first inlet a first outlet and a second outlet iii a fraction collector in fluid communication with the first outlet of the tee iv a first detector in fluid communication with the second outlet of the tee and v a splitter pump positioned in fluid communication with the second outlet of the tee and the first detector the splitter pump being operatively adapted to actively control fluid flow through the first detector. In other exemplary embodiments a shuttle valve may be used in place of the tee and splitter pump to actively control fluid flow through to at least one detector. In an exemplary embodiment the shuttle valve is a continuous flow shuttle valve.

In an even further embodiment according to the present invention an apparatus for analyzing a sample of fluid using chromatography includes a first fluid path of effluent from a chromatography column or cartridge at least one detector that is capable of analyzing the sample of fluid and a shuttle valve that transfers an aliquot sample of fluid from the first fluid path to the detector s without substantially affecting the flow properties of fluid through the first fluid path. The flow of the fluid through the first fluid path may be substantially laminar due to the first fluid path or channel being substantially linear or straight through at least a portion of the valve. In a further exemplary embodiment the pressure of the fluid through the first fluid path remains substantially constant and or it does not substantially increase. In another embodiment the flow rate of the fluid may be substantially constant through the first fluid path. In an alternative embodiment a second fluid path is utilized to carry the aliquot sample of fluid from the shuttle valve to the detector s . The flow of fluid through the second fluid path may be substantially laminar due to the second fluid path or channel being substantially linear or straight through at least a portion of the valve. In an exemplary embodiment the pressure of fluid through the second fluid path is substantially constant and or it does not substantially increase. In further embodiment the flow rate of fluid may be substantially constant through the second fluid path.

In an even further exemplary embodiment an apparatus for analyzing a sample of fluid using chromatography includes a first fluid path of effluent from a chromatography column a second fluid path that carries the sample of fluid to at least one detector that is capable of analyzing the sample and a shuttle valve that transfers an aliquot sample of fluid from the first fluid path to the second fluid path while maintaining a continuous second fluid path through the shuttle valve. In one embodiment a continuous first flow path through the shuttle valve is maintained when the aliquot sample of fluid is removed from the first fluid path. In another embodiment continuous first and second flow paths through the shuttle valve are maintained when the aliquot sample of fluid is removed from the first fluid path and transferred to the second fluid path.

In a further exemplary embodiment the apparatus for analyzing a sample comprises i a chromatography column ii two or more non destructive detectors with no destructive detectors within the system iii a fraction collector in fluid communication with the two or more non destructive detectors the fraction collector being operatively adapted to collect one or more sample fractions in response to one or more detector signals from the two or more non destructive detectors.

In an even further embodiment according to the present invention an apparatus for analyzing a sample using flash chromatography includes an evaporative particle detector that is capable of detecting individual compounds in the sample and a fraction collector that is capable of responding to a change in a detector response of the detected compound wherein the evaporative particle detector is the only detector utilized to analyze the sample. The evaporative particle detector is capable of detecting chemical composition chemical structure molecular weight or other physical or chemical properties. The detector may include an ELSD CNLSD or mass spectrometer.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the apparatus for analyzing a sample comprises a fraction collector in a liquid chromatography system the fraction collector being operatively adapted to i recognize receive and process one or more signals from at least one detector and ii collect one or more sample fractions based on the one or more signals.

The methods and apparatus of the present invention may comprise at least one detector. Suitable detectors include but are not limited to non destructive detectors i.e. detectors that do not consume or destroy the sample during detection such as UV RI conductivity fluorescence light scattering viscometry polorimetry and the like and or destructive detectors i.e. detectors that consume or destroy the sample during detection such as evaporative particle detectors EPD e.g. evaporative light scattering detectors ELSD condensation nucleation light scattering detectors CNLSD ect. corona discharge mass spectrometry atomic adsorption and the like. For example the apparatus of the present invention may include at least one UV detector at least one evaporative light scattering detector ELSD at least one mass spectrometer MS at least one condensation nucleation light scattering detector CNLSD at least one corona discharge detector at least one refractive index detector RID at least one fluorescence detector FD chiral detector CD or any combination thereof. In one exemplary embodiment the detector may comprise one or more evaporative particle detector s EPD which allows the use of chromaphoric and non chromaphoric solvents as the mobile phase. In a further embodiment a non destructive detector may be combined with a destructive detector which enables detection of various compound specific properties molecular weight chemical structure elemental composition and chirality of the sample such as for example the chemical entity associated with the peak.

The present invention is even further directed to computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions for performing one or more of the method steps in any of the exemplary methods described herein. The computer readable medium may be used to load application code onto an apparatus or an apparatus component such as any of the apparatus components described herein in order to i provide interface with an operator and or ii provide logic for performing one or more of the method steps described herein.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent after a review of the following detailed description of the disclosed embodiments and the appended claims.

To promote an understanding of the principles of the present invention descriptions of specific embodiments of the invention follow and specific language is used to describe the specific embodiments. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is intended by the use of specific language. Alterations further modifications and such further applications of the principles of the present invention discussed are contemplated as would normally occur to one ordinarily skilled in the art to which the invention pertains.

It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a and and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a solvent includes a plurality of such solvents and reference to solvent includes reference to one or more solvents and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

 About modifying for example the quantity of an ingredient in a composition concentrations volumes process temperatures process times recoveries or yields flow rates and like values and ranges thereof employed in describing the embodiments of the disclosure refers to variation in the numerical quantity that may occur for example through typical measuring and handling procedures through inadvertent error in these procedures through differences in the ingredients used to carry out the methods and like proximate considerations. The term about also encompasses amounts that differ due to aging of a formulation with a particular initial concentration or mixture and amounts that differ due to mixing or processing a formulation with a particular initial concentration or mixture. Whether modified by the term about the claims appended hereto include equivalents to these quantities.

As used herein the term chromatography means a physical method of separation in which the components to be separated are distributed between two phases one of which is stationary stationary phase while the other the mobile phase moves in a definite direction.

As used herein the term liquid chromatography means the separation of mixtures by passing a fluid mixture dissolved in a mobile phase through a column comprising a stationary phase which separates the analyte i.e. the target substance from other molecules in the mixture and allows it to be isolated.

As used herein the term mobile phase means a fluid liquid a gas or a supercritical fluid that comprises the sample being separated and or analyzed and the solvent that moves the sample comprising the analyte through the column. The mobile phase moves through the chromatography column or cartridge i.e. the container housing the stationary phase where the analyte in the sample interacts with the stationary phase and is separated from the sample.

As used herein the term stationary phase means material fixed in the column or cartridge that selectively adsorbs the analyte from the sample in the mobile phase separation of mixtures by passing a fluid mixture dissolved in a mobile phase through a column comprising a stationary phase which separates the analyte to be measured from other molecules in the mixture and allows it to be isolated.

As used herein the term flash chromatography means the separation of mixtures by passing a fluid mixture dissolved in a mobile phase under pressure through a column comprising a stationary phase which separates the analyte i.e. the target substance from other molecules in the mixture and allows it to be isolated.

As used herein the term shuttle valve means a control valve that regulates the supply of fluid from one or more source s to another location. The shuttle valve may utilize rotary or linear motion to move a sample from on fluid to another.

As used herein the term laminar flow means smooth orderly movement of a fluid in which there is no turbulence and any given subcurrent moves more or less in parallel with any other nearby subcurrent.

As used herein the term substantially means within a reasonable amount but includes amounts which vary from about 0 to about 50 of the absolute value from about 0 to about 40 from about 0 to about 30 from about 0 to about 20 or from about 0 to about 10 .

The present invention is directed to methods of analyzing samples and collecting sample fractions. The present invention is further directed to apparatus capable of analyzing samples and collecting sample fractions. The present invention is even further directed to computer software suitable for use in an apparatus or apparatus component that is capable of analyzing samples and collecting sample fractions wherein the computer software enables the apparatus to perform one or more method steps as described herein.

A description of exemplary methods of analyzing samples and apparatus capable of analyzing samples is provided below.

The present invention is directed to methods of analyzing samples and collecting sample fractions. The methods of analyzing a sample may contain a number of process steps some of which are described below.

In some embodiments of the present invention the method of analyzing a sample comprises a step comprising actively controlling fluid flow to a detector via a splitter pump or a shuttle valve. One exemplary liquid chromatography system depicting such a method step is shown in . As shown in exemplary liquid chromatography system comprises i a chromatography column ii a tee having a first inlet a first outlet and a second outlet iii a fraction collector in fluid communication with first outlet of tee iv a first detector in fluid communication with second outlet of tee and v a splitter pump positioned in fluid communication with second outlet of tee and first detector .

In this exemplary system splitter pump actively controls fluid flow to first detector . As used herein the phrase actively controls refers to the ability of a given splitter pump or shuttle valve to control fluid flow through a given detector even though there may be changes in fluid flow rate in other portions of the liquid chromatography system. Unlike passive flow splitters that merely split fluid flow the splitter pumps and shuttle valves used in the present invention control fluid flow to at least one detector regardless of possible fluctuations in fluid flow within the liquid chromatography system such as for example flow restrictions total flow rate temperature and or solvent composition.

The step of actively controlling fluid flow to a given detector may comprise for example sending an activation signal to the splitter pump or shuttle valve to i activate the splitter pump or shuttle valve ii deactivate the splitter pump or shuttle valve iii change one or more flow and or pressure settings of the splitter pump or shuttle valve or iv any combination of i to iii Suitable flow and pressure settings include but are not limited to i a valve position ii splitter pump or shuttle valve pressure iii air pressure to a valve or iv any combinations of i to iii . Typically the activation signal is in the form of for example an electrical signal a pneumatic signal a digital signal or a wireless signal.

As shown in in exemplary liquid chromatography system the step of actively controlling fluid flow to detector comprises using splitter pump to pump fluid from tee into detector . In other embodiments the step of actively controlling fluid flow to a detector may comprise using a splitter pump to pull fluid through a detector. Such a system configuration is shown in .

In some desired embodiments a shuttle valve such as exemplary shuttle valve shown in is used to actively control fluid flow to a detector such as detector . As shown in exemplary liquid chromatography system comprises chromatography column shuttle valve having chromatography cartridge inlet fraction collector outlet gas or liquid inlet and detector outlet fraction collector in fluid communication with fraction collector outlet of shuttle valve first detector in fluid communication with detector outlet of shuttle valve and fluid supply providing fluid to gas or liquid inlet of shuttle valve .

In an even further exemplary embodiment of the present invention a method of analyzing a sample of fluid using chromatography includes the steps of providing a first fluid of effluent from a chromatography column providing a second fluid to carry the sample of fluid to at least one detector using a shuffle valve to remove an aliquot sample of fluid from the first fluid and transfer the aliquot to the second fluid while maintaining a continuous path of the second fluid through the shuttle valve using at least one detector to observe the aliquot sample of fluid and collecting a new sample fraction of the first fluid in a fraction collector in response to a change in a detector response. In one embodiment a continuous flow path of the first fluid through the shuttle valve is maintained when the aliquot sample of fluid is removed from the first fluid. In another embodiment continuous flow paths of both the first fluid and the second fluid through the shuttle valve are maintained when the aliquot sample of fluid is removed from the first fluid and transferred to the second fluid.

In another exemplary embodiment according to the present invention a method of analyzing a sample of fluid using chromatography includes the steps of providing a first fluid comprising the sample using a shuttle valve to remove an aliquot sample of fluid from the first fluid without substantially affecting flow properties of the first fluid through the shuttle valve using at least one detector to observe the aliquot sample of fluid and collecting a new sample fraction of the first stream in a fraction collector in response to a change in at least one detector response. The flow of the first fluid through the shuttle valve may be substantially laminar due to the first fluid path or channel being substantially linear or straight through at least a portion of the valve. In a further exemplary embodiment the pressure of the first fluid through the shuttle valve remains substantially constant and or it does not substantially increase. In another embodiment the flow rate of the first fluid may be substantially constant through the shuttle valve. In an alternative embodiment a second fluid is utilized to carry the aliquot sample of fluid from the shuffle valve to the detector s . The flow of the second fluid through the shuttle valve may be substantially laminar due to the second fluid path or channel being substantially linear or straight through at least a portion of the valve. In an exemplary embodiment the pressure of the second fluid through the shuffle valve is substantially constant and or it does not substantially increase. In another embodiment the flow rate of the second fluid may be substantially constant through the shuttle valve.

As fluid flows through shuttle valve from chromatography cartridge to inlet to fraction collector outlet incoming sample aliquot volume is filled with a specific volume of fluid referred to herein as sample aliquot shown as the shaded area in . At a desired time shuttle valve transfers sample aliquot within incoming sample aliquot volume into outgoing sample aliquot volume as shown in . Once sample aliquot is transferred into outgoing sample aliquot volume gas or liquid flowing from inlet through outgoing sample aliquot volume transports sample aliquot to detector e.g. an ELSD via detector outlet .

Shuttle valve may be programmed to remove a sample aliquot e.g. sample aliquot from a sample for transport to at least one detector at a desired sampling frequency. In one exemplary embodiment the sampling frequency is at least 1 sample aliquot every 10 seconds or at least 1 sample aliquot every 5 seconds or at least 1 sample aliquot every 3 seconds or at least 1 sample aliquot every 2 seconds or 1 sample aliquot every 0.5 seconds or at least 1 sample aliquot every 0.1 seconds .

As fluid flows through shuttle valve from chromatography cartridge to inlet to fraction collector outlet via channel incoming sample aliquot volume in dimple is filled with a specific volume of fluid referred to herein as sample aliquot shown as the shaded area in . At a desired time shuttle valve transfers sample aliquot within dimple taken from channel to channel by rotating the dimple in dynamic body via dimple rotation path . Once sample aliquot is transferred into channel gas or liquid flowing from inlet through channel transports sample aliquot to detector e.g. an ELSD via detector outlet . Another advantage of the shuttle valve of the present invention relates to the fluidics design of the channels through the valve. In order to minimize backpressure in the chromatography system the flow through channels and is continuous. This is accomplished by locating channels and in static body such that no matter what position the dynamic body is in the flow through shuttle valve is continuous as shown in . As shown in at least a portion of the sample stream channel and detector stream channel may be substantially planar or circumferential which reduces turbulence and further minimizes pressure increase through the valve. In addition at least a portion of the sample stream channel and detector stream channel may be substantially parallel to dimple when contiguous with it which further limits turbulent flow and any increase in pressure in the valve. This includes those configurations that do not increase pressure within the valve of more than 50 psi preferably not more than 30 psi more preferably not more than 20 psi and even more preferably not more than 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 or 1 psi. Dimple is located in the dynamic body and is in fluid communication with the face of the dynamic body that is contiguous with the static body whereby when the dynamic body is in a first position the dimple will be in fluid communication with the sample stream channel and when moved to a second position the dimple will be in fluid communication with the detector stream channel . The dimple may be of any shape but is depicted as a concave semi sphere and it may be or any size. In an exemplary embodiment the dimple may be extremely small in size e.g. less than 2000 nL preferably less than about 500 nL more preferably less than about 100 nL and even more preferably less than about 1 nL but may include any size from 1 nL to 2000 nL which allows for rapid sampling. In addition small dimple size allows for a very short dimple rotation path which significantly reduces wear on the surfaces of the dynamic body and the static body and results in a shuttle valve having extended service life before maintenance is required e.g. more than 10 million cycles are possible before service . Even though a rotary motion shuttle valve is depicted in linear motion shuttle valves or their equivalent may be employed in the present invention.

Shuttle valve may be programmed to remove a sample aliquot e.g. sample aliquot from a sample for transport to at least one detector at a desired sampling frequency. In one exemplary embodiment the sampling frequency is at least 1 sample aliquot every 10 seconds or at least 1 sample aliquot every 5 seconds or at least 1 sample aliquot every 3 seconds or at least 1 sample aliquot every 2 seconds or 1 sample aliquot every 0.5 seconds or at least 1 sample aliquot every 0.1 seconds . This shuttle valve is further described in copending U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 200 814 the entire subject matter of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In another embodiment universal carrier fluid including volatile liquids and various gases may be utilized in the chromatography system to carry a sample to a detector. As shown in the carrier fluid from fluid supply enters the shuttle valve at inlet where it picks up sample aliquot shown in and then proceeds via outlet to detector . The sample aliquot should not precipitate in the carrier fluid of the valve or the associated plumbing may become blocked or the sample will coat the walls of the flow path and some or all of the sample will not reach the detector. Sample composition in flash chromatography is very diverse covering a large spectrum of chemical compounds including inorganic molecules organic molecules polymers peptides proteins and oligonucleotides. Solubility in various solvents differs both within and between classes of compounds. Detector compatibility also constrains the types of carrier fluids that may be used. For example for UV detection the solvent should be non chromaphoric at the detection wavelength. For evaporative particle detection EPD techniques ELSD CNLSD Mass spec etc. the solvent should be easily evaporated at a temperature well below the sample s melting point. In addition the carrier fluid should be miscible with the sample flowing between the valve inlet and the fraction collector outlet . For example if hexane is used in one flow path water may not be used in the other flow path because the two are not miscible. All the above suggests the carrier fluid should be customized each time the separation solvents change. This is time consuming and impractical. According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention using solvents that are miscible with organic solvents and water volatile and non chromaphoric averts this problem. For example a volatile non chromaphoric medium polarity solvent such as isopropyl alcohol IPA may be used as the carrier fluid. IPA is miscible with almost all solvents is non chromaphoric at common UV detection wavelengths and is easily evaporated at low temperatures. In addition IPA dissolves a broad range of chemicals and chemical classes. IPA is thus a suitable carrier fluid for virtually all sample types. Other carrier fluids may include acetone methanol ethanol propanol butanol isobutanol tetrahydrofuran and the like. In an alternative exemplary embodiment a gas may be utilized as the carrier fluid. Sample precipitation is not encountered because the sample remains in the separation solvent or mobile phase through the shuttle valve and subsequently through the detector. Likewise the separation solvent or mobile phase never mixes with another solvent so miscibility is not an issue. Because the carrier is a gas volatility is no longer an issue. In addition most gasses are non chromaphoric and compatible with UV detection. When using gas as the carrier the sample aliquot is issued from the valve to the detector as discrete slugs sandwiched between gas pockets as shown in . Using gas as the carrier fluid has other advantages. For example when used with an evaporative light scattering detector or other detection technique where the sample is nebulized the gas may be used to transport the sample and nebulize the sample eliminating the need for a separate nebulizer gas supply. In addition because gas does not require evaporation ambient drift tube temperatures may be used eliminating the need for drift tube heaters. A broader range of samples may be detected because those that would evaporate at higher temperatures will now stay in the solid or liquid state as they pass through the drift tube. A variety of gasses may be used as the carrier gas including air nitrogen helium hydrogen and carbon dioxide. Supercritical fluids may also be used such as supercritical carbon dioxide.

The methods of the present invention may further comprise using at least one detector to detect one or more sample components within a fluid stream. Suitable detectors for use in the liquid chromatography systems of the present invention include but are not limited to non destructive and or destructive detectors. Suitable detectors include but are not limited to non destructive detectors i.e. detectors that do not consume or destroy the sample during detection such as UV RI conductivity fluorescence light scattering viscometry polarimetry and the like and or destructive detectors i.e. detectors that consume or destroy the sample during detection such as evaporative particle detectors EPD e.g. evaporative light scattering detectors ELSD condensation nucleation light scattering detectors CNLSD etc. corona discharge mass spectrometry atomic adsorption and the like. For example the apparatus of the present invention may include at least one UV detector at least one evaporative light scattering detector ELSD at least one mass spectrometer MS at least one condensation nucleation light scattering detector CNLSD at least one corona discharge detector at least one refractive index detector RID at least one fluorescence detector FD at least one chiral detector CD or any combination thereof. In one exemplary embodiment the detector may comprise one or more evaporative particle detector s EPD which allows the use of chromaphoric and non chromaphoric solvents as the mobile phase. In a further embodiment a non destructive detector may be combined with a destructive detector which enables detection of various compound specific properties of the sample such as for example the chemical entity chemical structure molecular weight etc. associated with each chromatographic peak. When combined with mass spectrometer detection the fraction s chemical structure and or molecular weight may be determined at the time of detection streamlining identification of the desired fraction. In current systems the fraction s chemical identity and structure must be determined by cumbersome past separation techniques.

Regardless of the type of detector used a given detector provides one or more detector responses that may be used to generate and send a signal to one or more components e.g. a fraction collector another detector a splitter pump a shuttle valve or a tee within a liquid chromatography system as described herein. Typically a change in a given detector response triggers the generation and sending of a signal. In the present invention a change in a given detector response that might trigger the generation and sending of a signal to one or more components includes but is not limited to a change in a detector response value reaching or exceeding a threshold detector response value a slope of the detector response value over time a threshold slope of the detector response value over time a change in a slope of the detector response value over time a threshold change in a slope of the detector response value over time or any combination thereof.

In some exemplary embodiments the liquid chromatography system of the present invention comprises at least two detectors as shown in . Exemplary liquid chromatography system shown in comprises chromatography column tee having first inlet first outlet and second outlet fraction collector in fluid communication with first outlet of tee first detector in fluid communication with second outlet of tee splitter pump actively controlling fluid flow to first detector from second outlet of tee and second detector in fluid communication with second outlet of tee .

When two or more detectors are present the liquid chromatography system provides more analysis options to an operator. For example in exemplary liquid chromatography system shown in a method of analyzing a sample may comprise a step of sending one or more signals from first detector e.g. an ELSD and or second detector e.g. an optical absorbance detector such as an UV detector to fraction collector instructing fraction collector to collect a new sample fraction. The one or more signals from first detector and or second detector may comprise a single signal from first detector or second detector two or more signals from first detector and second detector or a composite signal from first detector and second detector . In exemplary liquid chromatography system shown in the method of analyzing a sample may further comprise a step of sending a signal from second detector to splitter pump instructing splitter pump to initiate or stop fluid flow to first detector in response to second detector detecting a sample component in a fluid stream.

In other exemplary embodiments the liquid chromatography system of the present invention comprises at least two detectors and at least two splitter pumps as shown in . Exemplary liquid chromatography system shown in comprises chromatography column first tee having first inlet first outlet and second outlet first detector in fluid communication with second outlet of first tee first splitter pump actively controlling fluid flow to first detector from second outlet of first tee second tee having first inlet first outlet and second outlet second detector in fluid communication with second outlet of second tee second splitter pump actively controlling fluid flow to second detector from second outlet of second tee and fraction collector in fluid communication with second outlet of second tee .

As discussed above the liquid chromatography systems of the present invention may comprise one or more shuttle valves in place or one or more tee splitter pump combinations to actively control fluid flow to at least one detector as exemplified in . As shown in exemplary liquid chromatography system comprises chromatography column shuttle valve having chromatography cartridge inlet fraction collector outlet gas or liquid inlet and detector outlet fraction collector in fluid communication with fraction collector outlet of shuttle valve first detector in fluid communication with detector outlet of shuttle valve fluid supply providing fluid to gas or liquid inlet of shuttle valve and second detector in fluid communication with detector outlet of shuttle valve .

As shown in exemplary liquid chromatography system comprises chromatography column first shuttle valve having chromatography cartridge inlet fraction collector outlet gas or liquid inlet and detector outlet first detector in fluid communication with detector outlet of shuttle valve fluid supply providing fluid to gas or liquid inlet of shuttle valve second shuttle valve having chromatography cartridge inlet fraction collector outlet gas or liquid inlet and detector outlet second detector in fluid communication with detector outlet of shuttle valve fluid supply providing fluid to gas or liquid inlet of shuttle valve and fraction collector in fluid communication with fraction collector outlet of shuttle valve .

In these exemplary embodiments namely exemplary liquid chromatography systems and a method of analyzing a sample may further comprise a step of actively controlling fluid flow to second detector or second detector via second splitter pump or second shuttle valve as well as actively controlling fluid flow to first detector or first detector via first splitter pump or first shuttle valve . Although not shown in it should be understood that first splitter pump and or second splitter pump may be positioned within exemplary liquid chromatography system so as to push or pull fluid through first detector and second detector respectively.

In some exemplary embodiments one or more optical absorbance detectors such as one or more UV detectors may be used to observe detector responses and changes in detector responses at one or more wavelengths across the absorbance spectrum. In these embodiments one or more light sources may be used in combination with multiple sensors within a single detector or multiple detectors to detect light absorbance by a sample at multiple wavelengths. For example one or more UV detectors may be used to observe detector responses and changes in detector responses at one or more wavelengths across the entire UV absorbance spectrum.

In one exemplary method of analyzing a sample the method comprises the step of using an optical absorbance detector such as an UV detector comprising n sensors to observe a sample at n specific wavelengths across the entire UV absorbance spectrum and collecting a new sample fraction in response to i a change in any one of the n detector responses at the n specific UV wavelengths or ii a change in a composite response represented by the n detector responses. The n sensors and multiple detectors when present may be positioned relative to one another as desired to affect signal timing to a fraction collector and or another system component e.g. another UV detector .

When utilizing whole spectrum UV or other spectrum range analysis the spectrum may be divided into any desired number of ranges of interest e.g. every 5 nm range from 200 nm to 400 nm . Any significant change over time in each spectrum range may be monitored. A sudden drop in received light energy e.g. a drop in both the first and second derivative of the detector response within a given range may indicate the arrival of a substance that absorbs light in the given wavelength range of interest. In this exemplary embodiment the width of each range can be made smaller to increase precision alternatively the width of each range can be made larger so as to reduce the burden of calculation i.e. fewer calculations per second less memory required .

In other exemplary embodiments a plurality of different types of detectors may be used to observe a variety of detector responses and changes in the detector responses within a given system. In exemplary liquid chromatography system shown in an evaporative particle detector EPD such as an evaporative light scattering detector ELSD i.e. first detector is used alone or in combination with an UV detector i.e. second detector . Exemplary liquid chromatography system further comprises chromatography column tee having first inlet first outlet and second outlet fraction collector EPD in fluid communication with second outlet of tee splitter pump actively controlling fluid flow to EPD and UV detector in fluid communication with first outlet of tee . In this exemplary embodiment the use of evaporative particle detection offers several advantages. Non chromaphoric mobile phases must be used with UV detection or the mobile phase s background absorbance would obliterate the sample signal. This precludes using solvents such as toluene pyridine and others that have otherwise valuable chromatographic properties. With evaporative particle detection the mobile phase chromaphoric properties are immaterial. As long as the mobile phase is more volatile than the sample it may be used with evaporative particle detection. This opens the opportunity to improve separations through the use of highly selective chromaphoric solvents as the mobile phase. Moreover UV detectors will not detect non chromaphoric sample components. Fractions collected based on UV detection only may contain one or more unidentifiable non chromaphoric components which compromises fraction purity. Conversely non chromaphoric samples may be completely missed by UV detection and either sent directly to waste or collected in fractions assumed to be sample free blank fractions . The net result is lost productivity contaminated fractions or loss of valuable sample components. When an EPD e.g. ELSD is utilized alone or with UV detection in the flash system chromaphoric and non chromaphoric components are detected and collected improving fraction purity. Because a flash system that includes UV detector alone may miss sample components or incorrectly flag pure fractions many flash users will screen collected fractions by thin layer chromatography to confirm purity and confirm blank fractions are truly blank. This is a time consuming post separation procedure that slows down workflow. Those fractions discovered to contain more than one component will frequently require a second chromatography step to properly segregate the components.

In exemplary liquid chromatography system signals and from detector e.g. ELSD and UV detector respectively may be sent to fraction collector to initiate some activity from fraction collector such as for example collection of a new sample fraction. In desired embodiments in response to one or more detector signals and from i detector ELSD ii UV detector or iii both ELSD and UV detector fraction collector collects a new sample fraction.

Similar to exemplary liquid chromatography system in exemplary liquid chromatography system shown in signals and from ELSD and UV detector respectively may be sent to fraction collector to initiate some activity from fraction collector such as for example collection of a new sample fraction. In desired embodiments in response to one or more detector signals and from i ELSD ii UV detector or iii both ELSD and UV detector fraction collector collects a new sample fraction.

As discussed above UV detector or UV detector may comprise n sensors operatively adapted to observe a sample at n specific wavelengths across a portion of or the entire UV absorbance spectrum. In exemplary liquid chromatography system shown in in response to i a single signal from either one of ELSD or UV detector ii two or more signals from both ELSD and UV detector or iii a composite signal comprising two or more detector responses i.e. up to n detector responses at the two or more specific UV wavelengths i.e. up to n specific UV wavelengths fraction collector collects a new sample fraction. Similarly in exemplary liquid chromatography system shown in in response to i a single signal from either one of ELSD or UV detector ii two or more signals from both ELSD and UV detector or iii a composite signal comprising two or more detector responses i.e. up to n detector responses at the two or more specific UV wavelengths i.e. up to n specific UV wavelengths fraction collector collects a new sample fraction.

Further in exemplary liquid chromatography system UV detector may be used to produce a detector signal not shown that 1 results i from a single detector response from a single sensor or ii from n detector responses of n sensors with n being greater than 1 and 2 is sent to at least one of splitter pump ELSD and tee . In addition a detector signal not shown resulting from a detector response in ELSD may be sent to UV detector to change one or more settings of UV detector . Similarly in exemplary liquid chromatography system shown in UV detector may be used to produce a detector signal not shown that 1 results i from a single detector response from a single sensor or ii from n detector responses of n sensors with n being greater than 1 and 2 is sent to at least one of shuttle valve and ELSD . In addition a detector signal not shown resulting from a detector response in ELSD may be sent to UV detector to change one or more settings of UV detector .

As shown in exemplary liquid chromatography system shown in the position of different types of detectors within a given system may be adjusted as desired to provide one or more system process features. In exemplary liquid chromatography system ELSD is positioned downstream from UV detector . In such a configuration UV detector is positioned to be able to provide a detector response and generate signal e.g. a signal that results i from a single detector response from a single sensor or ii from n detector responses of n sensors with n being greater than 1 for fraction collector prior to the generation of signal from ELSD . UV detector is also positioned to be able to provide a detector response and generate a signal not shown e.g. a signal that results i from a single detector response from a single sensor or ii from n detector responses of n sensors with n being greater than 1 for at least one of splitter pump ELSD and tee so as to activate or deactivate splitter pump ELSD and or tee .

Although not shown it should be understood that a shuttle valve may be used in place of tee and splitter pump within exemplary liquid chromatography system shown in to provide similar system process features. In such a configuration UV detector is positioned to be able to provide a detector response and generate signal e.g. a signal that results i from a single detector response from a single sensor or ii from n detector responses of n sensors with n being greater than 1 for fraction collector prior to the generation of signal from ELSD . UV detector is also positioned to be able to provide a detector response and generate a signal not shown e.g. a signal that results i from a single detector response from a single sensor or ii from n detector responses of n sensors with n being greater than 1 for at least one of a shuttle valve and ELSD so as to activate or deactivate the shuttle valve and or ELSD . Even though systems and refer to ELSD and UV as the detectors any destructive detector such as EPD may be utilized for the ELSD and any non destructive detector may be utilized in place of the UV detector.

In other exemplary embodiments the liquid chromatography system of the present invention may comprise a non destructive system comprising two or more non destructive detectors e.g. one or more optical absorbance detectors such as the UV detectors described above with no destructive detectors e.g. a mass spectrometer present in the system. In one exemplary embodiment the liquid chromatography system comprises two optical absorbance detectors such as UV detectors and the method of analyzing a sample comprises the step of using two or more detectors to observe a sample at two or more specific wavelengths and collecting a new sample fraction in response to i a change in a first detector response at a first wavelength ii a change in a second detector response at a second wavelength or iii a change in a composite response represented by the first detector response and the second detector response. In these embodiments the first wavelength may be substantially equal to or different from the second wavelength.

In embodiments utilizing two or more optical absorbance detectors such as two or more UV detectors the optical absorbance detectors may be positioned within a given liquid chromatography system so as to provide one or more system advantages. The two or more optical absorbance detectors may be positioned in a parallel relationship with one another so that a sample reaches each detector at substantially the same time and the two or more optical absorbance detectors may produce and send signals i.e. from first detector and second detector responses at substantially the same time to a fraction collector.

In a further embodiment a non destructive detector e.g. RI detector UV detector etc. may be used alone or in combined with a destructive detector e.g. EPD mass spectrometer spectrophotometer emission spectroscopy NMR etc. . For example a destructive detector such as a mass spectrometer detector enables simultaneous detection of the component peak and chemical entity associated with the peak. This allows for immediate determination of the fraction that contains the target compound. With the other detection techniques post separation determination of which fraction contains the target compound may be required such as by for example spectrophotometry mass spectrometry emission spectroscopy NMR etc. If two or more chemical entities elute at the same time from the flash cartridge i.e. have the same retention time they will be deposited in the same vial by the system when using certain detectors i.e. those detectors that cannot identify differences between the chemical entities because these detectors cannot determine chemical composition. In an exemplary embodiment where a mass spectrometer detector is utilized as the destructive detector all compounds that elute at the same time may be identified. This eliminates the need to confirm purity after separation.

In any of the above described liquid chromatography systems it may be advantageous to position at least one detector such as at least one UV detector downstream from e.g. in series with at least one other detector such as at least one other UV detector or an ELSD. In such an embodiment a first detector response in a first detector can be used to produce and send a signal to at least one of 1 a splitter pump 2 a shuttle valve 3 a second detector and 4 a tee. For example a first detector response in a first detector can be used to produce and send a signal to a splitter pump or a shuttle valve to i activate the splitter pump or the shuttle valve ii deactivate the splitter pump or the shuttle valve iii change one or more flow or pressure settings of the splitter pump or the shuttle valve or iv any combination of i to iii . Suitable flow and pressure settings include but are not limited to the flow and pressure settings described above. Typically the signal is in the form of for example an electrical signal a pneumatic signal a digital signal or a wireless signal.

In some embodiments multiple detectors i.e. two or more detectors may be positioned so that each detector can send a signal to at least one of 1 a splitter pump 2 a shuttle valve 3 another detector and 4 a tee independently of the other detectors in the system. For example multiple optical absorbance detectors e.g. UV detectors may be positioned within a given system to provide independent signals to a shuttle valve to cause the shuttle valve to provide actively controlled fluid sampling to another detector such as an ELSD.

In other embodiments a first detector response in a first detector can be used to produce and send a signal to a second detector to i activate the second detector ii activate the second detector at a wavelength substantially similar to a first wavelength used in the first detector iii activate the second detector at a wavelength other than the first wavelength used in the first detector iv deactivate the second detector v change some other setting of the second detector e.g. the observed wavelength of the second detector or vi any combination of i to v .

In yet other embodiments a first detector response in a first detector can be used to produce and send a signal to a tee to i open a valve or ii close a valve so as to start or stop fluid flow through a portion of the liquid chromatography system. As discussed above typically the signal is in the form of for example an electrical signal a pneumatic signal a digital signal or a wireless signal.

The methods of the present invention may further comprise the step of generating a signal from one or more detector responses. In some embodiments such as exemplary liquid chromatography system shown in a single detector detects the presence of a sample component and produces a detector response based on the presence and concentration of a sample component within a fluid stream. In other embodiments such as exemplary liquid chromatography system shown in two or more detectors may be used to detect the presence of one or more sample components and produce two or more detector responses based on the presence and concentration of one or more sample components within a fluid stream.

As discussed above a given detector provides one or more detector responses that may be used to generate and send a signal to one or more components e.g. a fraction collector another detector a splitter pump a shuttle valve or a tee within a liquid chromatography system as described herein. Typically a change in a given detector response triggers the generation and sending of a signal. Changes in a given detector response that might trigger the generation and sending of a signal to one or more components include but are not limited to a change in a detector response value reaching or exceeding a threshold detector response value a slope of the detector response value over time a threshold slope of the detector response value over time a change in a slope of the detector response value over time a threshold change in a slope of the detector response value over time or any combination thereof.

In one exemplary embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise the step of generating a detector signal from at least one detector the detector signal being generated in response to i the slope of a detector response as a function of time i.e. the first derivative of a detector response ii a change in the slope of the detector response as a function of time i.e. the second derivative of the detector response iii optionally a threshold detector response value or iv any combination of i to iii with desired combinations comprising at least i or at least ii . In this exemplary embodiment a substance is recognized from the shape of the detector response specifically the first and or second derivative of the detector response over time i.e. slope and change in slope respectively . In particular a computer program analyzes the time sequence of detector response values and measures its rate of change i.e. the first derivative and the rate of the rate of change i.e. the second derivative . When both the first derivative and the second derivative are increasing a substance is beginning to be detected. Similarly when both the first derivative and the second derivative are decreasing the substance is ceasing to be detected.

Real world detector values are typically noisy e.g. jagged so it is desirable to utilize low pass numerical filtering e.g. smoothing over time. Consequently the step of generating a detector signal from at least one detector desirably further comprises low pass numerical filtering of i slope data over time ii change in slope data over time iii optionally a threshold detector response value or iv any combination of i to iii to distinguish actual changes in i slope data over time ii change in slope data over time iii optionally a threshold detector response value or iv any combination of i to iii from possible noise in the detector response. In desired embodiments a finite impulse response FIR filter or infinite impulse response IIR filter may be utilized for low pass numerical filtering of data over time e.g. perhaps just an average of several samples . Typically the decision algorithm utilizes a small number of sequential successes in time as confirmation of a real detector response signal and not noise.

In other embodiments the method of analyzing a sample may comprise generating a composite signal comprising a detection response component from each detector and collecting a new sample fraction in response to a change in the composite signal. In these embodiments the step of generating a composite signal may comprise mathematically correlating i a detector response value ii the slope of a given detector response as a function of time i.e. the first derivative of a given detector response iii a change in the slope of the given detector response as a function of time i.e. the second derivative of the given detector response or iv any combination of i to iii from each detector i.e. each of the two or more detectors . For example in some embodiments the composite signal may comprise i the product of detector response values for each detector i.e. each of two or more detectors at a given time ii the product of the first derivatives of the detector responses at a given time iii the product of the second derivatives of the detector responses at a given time or iv any combination of i to iii .

In other embodiments in which a composite signal is used the step of generating a composite signal may comprise mathematically correlating i a detector response value ii the slope of a given detector response as a function of time i.e. the first derivative of a given detector response iii a change in the slope of the given detector response as a function of time i.e. the second derivative of the given detector response or iv any combination of i to iii from each sensor within a detector i.e. n sensors observing a sample at n specific wavelengths alone or in combination with any other detector responses present in the system. For example in some embodiments the composite signal may comprise i the product of detector response values for each sensor within a detector i.e. n sensors observing a sample at n specific wavelengths and any additional detector response values from other detectors e.g. from an ELSD used in combination with an UV detector at a given time ii the product of the first derivatives of the detector responses for each sensor within a detector i.e. n sensors observing a sample at n specific wavelengths and any additional detector responses from other detectors at a given time iii the product of the second derivatives of the detector responses for each sensor within a detector i.e. n sensors observing a sample at n specific wavelengths and any additional detector responses from other detectors at a given time or iv any combination of i to iii .

The methods of the present invention may further comprise using a fraction collector such as exemplary fraction collector shown in to collect one or more sample fractions in response to one or more signals from at least one detector in a given liquid chromatography system. For example in exemplary liquid chromatography systems and shown in respectively methods of analyzing a sample may further comprise the step of collecting one or more sample fractions in response to one or more signals from first detector . In exemplary liquid chromatography systems and shown in respectively methods of analyzing a sample may further comprise the step of collecting one or more sample fractions in response to one or more signals from first detector or first detector second detector or second detector or both first and second detectors and or both first and second detectors and .

In some embodiments of the present invention the fraction collector is operatively adapted to recognize receive and process one or more signals from at least one detector and collect one or more sample fractions based on the one or more signals. In other embodiments additional computer or microprocessing equipment is utilized to process one or more signals from at least one detector and subsequently provide to the fraction collector a recognizable signal that instructs the fraction collector to collect one or more sample fractions based on one or more signals from the additional computer or microprocessing equipment.

As discussed above system components may be positioned within a given liquid chromatography system to provide one or more system properties. For example at least one detector may be positioned within a given liquid chromatography system so as to minimize any time delay between i the detection of a given detector response and ii the step of collecting a sample fraction based on a signal generated from the detector response. In exemplary embodiments of the present invention the liquid chromatography system desirably exhibits a maximum time delay of a given detector signal to the fraction collector i.e. the time delay between i the detection of a given detector response and ii the step of collecting a sample fraction based on a signal generated from the detector response of less than about 2.0 seconds s or less than about 1.5 s or less than about 1.0 s or less than about 0.5 s .

In exemplary embodiments of the present invention utilizing two or more detectors or at least one detector comprising n sensors as described above the liquid chromatography system desirably exhibits a maximum time delay for any detector signal from any detector to the fraction collector i.e. the time delay between i the detection of a given detector response and ii the step of collecting a sample fraction based on a signal e.g. single or composite signal generated from the detector response of less than about 2.0 s or less than about 1.5 s or less than about 1.0 s or less than about 0.5 s .

The methods of the present invention utilize a liquid chromatography LC step to separate compounds within a given sample. Depending on the particular sample various LC columns mobile phases and other process step conditions e.g. feed rate gradient etc. may be used.

A number of LC columns may be used in the present invention. In general any polymer or inorganic based normal phase reversed phase ion exchange affinity hydrophobic interaction hydrophilic interaction mixed mode and size exclusion columns may be used in the present invention. Exemplary commercially available columns include but are not limited to columns available from Grace Davison Discovery Sciences under the trade names VYDAC GRACERESOLV DAVISIL ALLTIMA VISION GRACEPURE EVEREST and DENALI as well as other similar companies.

A number of mobile phase components may be used in the present invention. Suitable mobile phase components include but are not limited to acetonitrile dichloromethane ethyl acetate heptane acetone ethyl ether tetrahydrofuran chloroform hexane methanol isopropyl alcohol water ethanol buffers and combinations thereof.

The methods of analyzing a sample in the present invention may further comprise one or more steps in which an operator or user interfaces with one or more system components of a liquid chromatography system. For example the methods of analyzing a sample may comprise one or more of the following steps inputting a sample into the liquid chromatography system for testing adjusting one or more settings e.g. flow or pressure settings wavelengths etc. of one or more components within the system programming at least one detector to generate a signal based on a desired mathematical algorithm that takes into account one or more detector responses from one or more sensors and or detectors programming one or more system components other than a detector to generate a signal based on a desired mathematical algorithm that takes into account one or more detector responses programming a fraction collector to recognize a signal e.g. a single or composite signal from at least one detector and collect one or more sample fractions based on a received signal programming one or more system components other than a fraction collector to recognize an incoming signal from at least one detector convert the incoming signal into a signal recognizable and processable by a fraction collector so that the fraction collector is able to collect one or more sample fractions based on input from the one or more system components and activating or deactivating one or more system components e.g. a tee valve a splitter pump a shuttle valve or a detector at a desired time or in response to some other activity within the liquid chromatography system e.g. a detector response displayed to the operator or user .

The present invention is also directed to an apparatus and apparatus components capable of analyzing a sample or capable of contributing to the analysis of a sample using one or more of the above described method steps.

As described above in some exemplary embodiments of the present invention an apparatus for analyzing a sample may comprise i a chromatography column ii a tee having a first inlet a first outlet and a second outlet iii a fraction collector in fluid communication with the first outlet of the tee iv a first detector in fluid communication with the second outlet of the tee and v a splitter pump positioned in fluid communication with the second outlet of the tee and the first detector with the splitter pump being operatively adapted to actively control fluid flow to the first detector. In other exemplary embodiments of the present invention a shuttle valve may be used in place of a tee splitter pump combination to actively control fluid flow to the first detector.

Although not shown in any of the above described apparatus e.g. exemplary liquid chromatography systems to or apparatus components may further comprise system hardware that enables i the recognition of a detector response value or a change in a detector response value ii the generation of a single from the detector response value or a change in a detector response value iii the sending of a signal to one or more system components iv the recognition of a generated signal by a receiving component v processing of the recognized signal within the receiving component and vi the initiation of a process step of the receiving component in response to the recognized signal.

In one embodiments the apparatus e.g. exemplary liquid chromatography systems to or a given apparatus component may further comprise system hardware that enables a first detector to send an activation signal to a splitter pump or a shuttle valve to i activate the splitter pump or shuttle valve ii deactivate the splitter pump or shuttle valve iii change one or more flow or pressure settings of the splitter pump or shuttle valve or iv any combination of i to iii . Suitable flow and pressure settings may include but are not limited to i a valve position ii splitter pump or shuttle valve pressure iii air pressure to a valve or iv any combination of i to iii .

In some embodiments a splitter pump may be positioned between a tee and a first detector see for example spatter pump positioned between tee and first detector in . In other embodiments a first detector may be positioned between a tee and the splitter pump see for example first detector positioned between tee and splitter pump in .

In other exemplary embodiments the apparatus of the present invention comprise i a chromatography column ii two or more detectors and iii a fraction collector in fluid communication with the two or more detectors with the fraction collector being operatively adapted to collect one or more sample fractions in response to one or more detector signals from the two or more detectors. In some embodiments the two or more detectors comprise two or more non destructive detectors e.g. two or more UV detectors with no destructive detectors e.g. mass spectrometer in the system.

When two or more detectors are present a splitter pump or shuttle valve may be used to split a volume of fluid flow between a first detector and a second detector. In other embodiments a splitter pump or shuttle valve may be used to initiate or stop fluid flow to one detector in response to a detector response from another detector. In addition multiple splitter pumps and or shuttle valves may be used in a given system to actively control fluid flow to two or more detectors.

As discussed above the apparatus may further comprise system hardware that enables generation of a detector signal from one or more detector responses. In one exemplary embodiment the apparatus comprises system hardware that enables generation of a detector signal that is generated in response to i the slope of a detector response as a function of time i.e. the first derivative of a detector response ii a change in the slope of the detector response as a function of time i.e. the second derivative of the detector response iii optionally a threshold detector response value or iv any combination of i to iii with desired combinations comprising at least i or at least ii . The system hardware desirably further comprises low pass numerical filtering capabilities for filtering i slope data ii change in slope data iii optionally a threshold detector response value or iv any combination of i to iii over time to distinguish actual changes in i slope data ii change in slope data iii optionally a threshold detector response value or iv any combination of i to iii from possible noise in a given detector response.

In multi detector systems system hardware may also be used to enable the generation of a composite signal comprising a detection response component from each detector as well as detection response components from multiple sensors within a given detector. In these embodiments the system hardware is operatively adapted to send a command signal to a fraction collector instructing the fraction collector to collect a new sample fraction in response to a change in the composite signal. The composite signal may comprise a mathematical correlation between i a detector response value ii the slope of a given detector response as a function of time i.e. the first derivative of a given detector response iii a change in the slope of the given detector response as a function of time i.e. the second derivative of the given detector response or iv any combination of i to iii from each detector. For example the composite signal may comprise i the product of detector response values for each detector at a given time ii the product of the first derivatives of the detector responses at a given time iii the product of the second derivatives of the detector responses at a given time or iv any combination of i to iii .

In one desired configuration the apparatus for analyzing a sample comprising at least one detector operatively adapted to observe a sample at two or more specific optical wavelengths e.g. within the UV spectrum and system hardware that enables a fraction collector to collect a new sample fraction in response to i a change in a detector response at a first wavelength ii a change in a detector response at a second wavelength or iii a change in a composite response represented by detector responses at the first and second wavelengths. Each detector can operate at the same wavelength s at different wavelengths or multiple wavelengths. Further each detector may be in a parallel relationship with one another in series with one another or some combination of parallel and series detectors.

As discussed above in one exemplary embodiment the apparatus may comprise a single detector comprising n sensors operatively adapted to observe a sample at n specific optical wavelengths across a portion of or the entire UV absorbance spectrum or any other portion of the absorbance spectrum using some other type of detector and system hardware that enables a fraction collector to collect a new sample fraction in response to i a change in any one of the n detector responses at the n specific optical wavelengths or ii a change in a composite response represented by the n detector responses.

When a splitter pump or shuttle valve is present to actively control fluid flow to at least one detector the apparatus for analyzing a sample may further comprise system hardware that enables generation of an activation signal to the splitter pump or shuttle valve to i activate the splitter pump or shuttle valve ii deactivate the splitter pump or shuttle valve iii change one or more flow or pressure settings of the splitter pump or shuttle valve or iv any combination of i to iii . The activation signal may be generated for example by a system operator or by a system component such as a detector i.e. the activation signal being generated and sent by the detector in response to a detector response value or change in a detector response value of the detector as discussed above .

In an even further embodiment according to the present invention an apparatus for analyzing a sample of fluid using chromatography includes a first fluid path of effluent from a chromatography column or cartridge at least one detector that is capable of analyzing the sample of fluid and a shuttle valve that transfers an aliquot sample of fluid from the first fluid path to the detector s without substantially affecting the flow properties of fluid through the first fluid path. The flow of the fluid through the first fluid path may be substantially laminar due to the first fluid path or channel being substantially linear or straight through at least a portion of the valve. In a further exemplary embodiment the pressure of the fluid through the first fluid path remains substantially constant and or it does not substantially increase. In another embodiment the flow rate of the fluid may be substantially constant through the first fluid path. In an alternative embodiment a second fluid path is utilized to carry the aliquot sample of fluid from the shuttle valve to the detector s . The flow of fluid through the second fluid path may be substantially laminar due to the second fluid path or channel being substantially linear or straight through at least a portion of the valve. In an exemplary embodiment the pressure of fluid through the second fluid path is substantially constant and or it does not substantially increase. In further embodiment the flow rate of fluid may be substantially constant through the second fluid path.

In an even further exemplary embodiment an apparatus for analyzing a sample of fluid using chromatography includes a first fluid path of effluent from a chromatography column a second fluid path that carries the sample of fluid to at least one detector that is capable of analyzing the sample and a shuttle valve that transfers an aliquot sample of fluid from the first fluid path to the second fluid path while maintaining a continuous second fluid path through the shuttle valve. In one embodiment a continuous first flow path through the shuttle valve is maintained when the aliquot sample of fluid is removed from the first fluid path. In another embodiment continuous first and second flow paths through the shuttle valve are maintained when the aliquot sample of fluid is removed from the first fluid path and transferred to the second fluid path.

In exemplary embodiments of the present invention the apparatus for analyzing a sample further comprises a fraction collector that is operatively adapted to collect one or more sample fractions in response to one or more detector signals from i a first detector ii a second detector or any number of additional detectors or iii both the first and second detectors or any number of additional detectors . When multiple detectors are utilized the apparatus may comprise a fraction collector operatively adapted to collect a new sample fraction in response to a change in a composite signal that accounts for one or more detector responses from each detector as described above.

As discussed above in some exemplary embodiments the apparatus for analyzing a sample comprises a fraction collector that is operatively adapted to recognize receive and process one or more signals from at least one detector and collect one or more sample fractions based on the one or more signals. In other embodiments the apparatus for analyzing a sample comprises additional computer or microprocessing equipment that is capable of processing one or more signals from at least one detector and converting an incoming signal into a signal that is recognizable by the fraction collector. In this later embodiment the fraction collector collects one or more sample fractions based on the one or more signals from the additional computer or microprocessing equipment not from signal processing components of the fraction collector.

It should be noted that any of the above described exemplary liquid chromatography systems may comprise any number of detectors splitter pumps tees and shuttle valves which may be strategically placed within a given system to provide one or more system properties. For example although not shown in exemplary liquid chromatography system in an additional detector could be positioned between column and shuttle valve and or between shuttle valve and detector . Although not shown in exemplary liquid chromatography system in an additional detector could be positioned between column and shuttle valve and or between shuttle valve and shuttle valve and or between shuttle valve and fraction collector . Additional detectors may be similarly positioned within exemplary liquid chromatography systems and shown in respectively 

A number of commercially available components may be used in the apparatus of the present invention as discussed below.

Any known chromatography column may be used in the apparatus of the present invention. Suitable commercially available chromatography columns include but are not limited to chromatography columns available from Grace Davison Discovery Sciences Deerfield Ill. under the trade designations GRACEPURE GRACERESOLV VYDAC and DAVISIL .

Any known detector may be used in the apparatus of the present invention. Suitable commercially available detectors include but are not limited to UV detectors available from Ocean Optics Dunedin Fla. under the trade designation USB 2000 evaporative light scattering detectors ELSDs available from Grace Davison Discovery Sciences Deerfield Ill. under the trade designation 3300 ELSD mass spectrometers MSs available from Waters Corporation Milford Mass. under the trade designation ZQ condensation nucleation light scattering detectors CNLSDs available from Quant Blaine Minn. under the trade designation QT 500 corona discharge detectors CDDs available from ESA Chelmsford Mass. under the trade designation CORONA CAD refractive index detectors RIDS available from Waters Corporation Milford Mass. under the trade designation 2414 and fluorescence detectors FDs available from Laballiance St. Collect Pa. under the trade designation ULTRAFLOR .

In some embodiments a commercially available detector may need to be modified or programmed or a specific detector may need to be built in order to perform one or more of the above described method steps of the present invention.

Any known splitter pump may be used in the apparatus of the present invention. Suitable commercially available splitter pumps include but are not limited to splitter pumps available from KNF Trenton N.J. under the trade designation LIQUID MICRO .

Any known shuttle valve may be used in the apparatus of the present invention. Suitable commercially available shuttle valves include but are not limited to shuttle valves available from Valco Houston Tex. under the trade designation CHEMINERT Rheodyne shuttle valve available from Hex Corporation under the trade name MRA and a continuous flow shuttle valve as described herein.

Any known fraction collector may be used in the apparatus of the present invention. Suitable commercially available fraction collectors include but are not limited to fraction collectors available from Gilson Middleton Wis. under the trade designation 215.

In some embodiments a commercially available fraction collector may need to be modified and or programmed or a specific fraction collector may need to be built in order to perform one or more of the above described method steps of the present invention. For example fraction collectors that are operatively adapted to recognize receive and process one or more signals from at least one detector and collect one or more sample fractions based on the one or more signals are not commercially available at this time.

The present invention is further directed to a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions for performing one or more of the above described method steps. For example the computer readable medium may have stored thereon computer executable instructions for adjusting one or more settings e.g. flow settings wavelengths etc. of one or more components within the system generating a signal based on a desired mathematical algorithm that takes into account one or more detector responses recognizing a signal from at least one detector collecting one or more sample fractions based on a received signal recognizing an incoming signal from at least one detector convert the incoming signal into a signal recognizable and processable by a fraction collector so that the fraction collector is able to collect one or more sample fractions based on input from the one or more system components and activating or deactivating one or more system components e.g. a tee valve a splitter pump a shuttle valve or a detector at a desired time or in response to some other activity within the liquid chromatography system e.g. a detector response .

The above described methods apparatus and computer software may be used to detect the presence of one or more compounds in a variety of samples. The above described methods apparatus and computer software find applicability in any industry that utilizes liquid chromatography including but not limited to the petroleum industry the pharmaceutical industry analytical labs etc.

The present invention is further illustrated by the following examples which are not to be construed in any way as imposing limitations upon the scope thereof. On the contrary it is to be clearly understood that resort may be had to various other embodiments modifications and equivalents thereof which after reading the description herein may suggest themselves to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the present invention and or the scope of the appended claims.

In this example the flash REVELEFIS system available from Grace Davison Discovery Sciences was utilized 4 mL of a mixture containing sucrose and aspirin was injected into a 4 g GRACERESOLV C18 flash column available from Grace Davison Discovery Sciences which was mounted in the flash system. A 50 50 methanol water mobile phase was pumped through the system using an ALLTECH model 300 LC pump. The column effluent was directed to a KNF splitter pump that diverted 300 uL min of the column effluent to an ALLTECH 3300 ELSD. The balance of the effluent flowed through an Ocean Optics UV detector to a Gilson fraction collector.

The sucrose and aspirin were separated on the flash column. Both the sucrose and the aspirin were detected by the ELSD. The UV detector only detected the aspirin. Both detectors responded to the aspirin at the same time. The fraction collector deposited the sucrose and aspirin in separate collection vials in response to a composite signal from the UV and ELSD detectors.

In this example the flash REVELERIS system available from Grace Davison Discovery Sciences was utilized. 4 mL of a mixture containing dioctyl phthalate and butyl paraben was injected into a 4 g GraceResolv C18 flash cartridge available from Grace Davison Discovery Sciences which was mounted in the flash system. A 80 20 methanol water mobile phase was pumped through the system using an Alltech model 300 LC pump. The column effluent was directed to a shuttle valve as described herein that diverted 300 uL min of the column effluent to an Alltech 3300 ELSD. The balance of the effluent flowed through an Ocean Optics UV detector to a Gilson fraction collector.

This two component mixture contains a non chromaphoric compound one that does not absorb UV light and a chromaphoric compound. The non chromaphoric compound elutes from the flash cartridge first. depicts a chromatogram that illustrates only the ELSD identifies all the components in the sample as is evidenced by the two peaks on the chromatogram. The UV detector does not identify the non chromaphoric compound identified as the first peak by the ELSD even at two wavelengths. Only the ELSD signal will be able to properly control the fraction collector capturing both compounds. If the UV detector drove the fraction collector as would be the case in conventional Flash systems the first compound would be sent to waste or improperly deposited in collection vessels without knowledge that these fractions contained desired sample. In conventional flash instruments all fractions are screened by thin layer chromatography TLC after the chromatographic separation to find compounds that the UV detector may not have identified. This Example demonstrates that flash instruments equipped with an ELSD according to the present invention are able to identify and separate both chromaphoric and non chromaphoric compounds and post separation TLC screening is not required.

While the invention has been described with a limited number of embodiments these specific embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the invention as otherwise described and claimed herein. It may be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art upon review of the exemplary embodiments herein that further modifications equivalents and variations are possible. All parts and percentages in the examples as well as in the remainder of the specification are by weight unless otherwise specified. Further any range of numbers recited in the specification or claims such as that representing a particular set of properties units of measure conditions physical states or percentages is intended to literally incorporate expressly herein by reference or otherwise any number falling within such range including any subset of numbers within any range so recited. For example whenever a numerical range with a lower limit RL and an upper limit RU is disclosed any number R falling within the range is specifically disclosed. In particular the following numbers R within the range are specifically disclosed R RL k RU RL where k is a variable ranging from 1 to 100 with a 1 increment e.g. k is 1 2 3 4 5 . . . 50 51 52 . . . 95 96 97 98 99 or 100 . Moreover any numerical range represented by any two values of R as calculated above is also specifically disclosed. Any modifications of the invention in addition to those shown and described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Such modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. All publications cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

