---

title: Distributed electrical power network model maintenance
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems are provided for maintaining a distributed electrical power network model associated with a power grid. A global power network model, comprising a global logical representation of the power grid, is maintained at a network control center configured to manage one or more substations associated with the power grid. The network control center hosts grid management applications that utilize the global power network model. A local power network model, comprising a local logical representation of a power grid territory within the power grid monitored by a substation, is maintained at the substation. The substation hosts one or more local grid management applications that utilize the local power network model. The global power network model and the local power network model are synchronized in response to events occurring within the power grid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09520717&OS=09520717&RS=09520717
owner: ABB Research Ltd.
number: 09520717
owner_city: Zurich
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20120418
---
A power grid such as an electrical grid may be configured to provide electricity from suppliers to consumers. The power grid may be associated with one or more substations configured to provide electricity distribution functionality. The grid may be managed by a distribution management system DMS . For example in a DMS a substation may comprise a substation computer configured to communicate with one or more field intelligent electronic devices IEDs such as electronic relays capacitor bank controllers electronic fault indicators smart electricity meters and or other distribution network sensors and or controllers. The substation computer may comprise computational resources such as a programmable logic controller PLC that may execute various tasks associated with the power grid.

A network control center may be configured to manage one or more substations. The network control center may comprise sophisticated computational hardware e.g. multi core processors configured to provide real time processing of data associated with the power grid. For example the network control center may maintain a global power network model logically representing components within the power grid. The network control center may host various grid management applications such as fault detection isolation restoration FDIR applications network reconfiguration applications voltage volt ampere reactive var control applications etc. that may utilize the global power network model. In this way a grid management application hosted by the network control center may send control commands to substations based upon the global power network model.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques related to maintaining a distributed electrical power network model associated with a power grid are provided herein. A network control center may be configured to manage one or more substations associated with the power grid. The network control center may be configured to maintain a global power network model. The global power network model may comprise a global logical representation of components within the power grid e.g. transformers circuit breakers load changers wires etc. . Grid management applications hosted by the network control center may utilize the global power network model during execution. For example a network reconfiguration application may balance loads amongst one or more transformers within the power grid based upon load data and or transformer data within the global power network model.

As provided herein local power network models and or execution of grid management applications may be distributed to one or more substations e.g. substation computers within the power grid. For example a first local power network model may be maintained at a first substation. The first local power network model may comprise a local logical representation of the power grid associated with the first substation e.g. information associated with components within a first power grid territory of the power grid monitored by the first substation . That is the first local power network model may be maintained at the first substation instead of the global power network model because the global power network model may comprise an amount of data that the first substation may be unable to maintain within memory and or process e.g. a local grid management application hosted by the first substation may be unable to perform operations in real time based upon the amount of information within the global power network model . Accordingly the first local power network model may comprise a localized representation of the power grid associated with the first substation e.g. a portion of the power grid managed by the first substation . In this way execution of local grid management applications may be hosted by the first substation based upon the first local power network model.

The global power network model maintained at the network control center and one or more local power network models maintained at one or more substations may be synchronized as provided herein. In one example the network control center may detect a power network model change e.g. a power utility company may update a geographical information system GIS maintained by the network control center with updated impedance phase geographical coordinates and or other information associated with the power grid . The network control center may update the global power network model based upon the power network model change. The network control center may send a power network model update to the first substation and may instruct the first substation to update the first local power network model based upon the power network model update. The first substation may notify one or more peer substations e.g. logically and or physically connected substations substations within a similar geographical territory etc. of the power network model update. In this way the global power network model and one or more local power network models may be synchronized.

In another example the first substation may detect a power network model change corresponding to a power grid event within a first power grid territory monitored by the first substation e.g. the first substation may switch one or more consumers from a first feeder to a second feeder based upon a detected outage . The first substation may update the first local power network model based upon the power network model change e.g. feeder data may be updated within the first power network model . The first substation may identify one or more peer substations that are peers of the first substation. The first substation may send a power network model update to the one or more peer substations and may instruct the one or more peer substations to update local power network models maintained at respective peer substations based upon the power network model update. The first substation may send a power network model update to the network control center and may instruct the network control center to update the global power network model based upon the power network model update.

In one example the network control center may evaluate the power grid event e.g. the switch from the first feeder to the second feeder by the first substation associated with the power network model update with the global power network model to determine whether corrective action is to be take. For example the network control center may use the global power network model to determine whether the power grid event was a desirable course of action e.g. the second feeder may be overloaded based upon the feeder switch which may be unknown to the first substation because the first local power network model may not comprise a complete view of the second feeder such as feeder data for the second feeder associated with a territory not monitored by the first substation . The network control center may issue a control command defining the corrective action to one or more substations. The control command and or corrective action may be incorporated into the global power network model and similarly propagated to one or more local power network models e.g. that may be affected by the corrective action . In this way the global power network model and one or more local power network models may be synchronized and or execution of grid management applications may be distributed between the network control center and one or more substations.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

A power grid may comprise one or more network control centers configured to manage substations within the power grid. A network control center may maintain a global power network model comprising a global logical representation of the power grid. Grid management applications hosted by the network control center may perform various tasks within the power grid based upon the global power network model e.g. a network reconfiguration application may balance loads amongst one or more transformers within the power grid based upon load data and or transformer data within the global power network model . A substation may comprise a substation computer configured to provide limited functionality for managing components within the power grid e.g. the substation computer may implement PLC logic to manage components connected to the substation . Current substation computers may not have access to power network model information and thus functionality provided by current substation computers may be limited.

Accordingly as provided herein power network model information and or execution of grid management applications may be distributed to one or more substations. That is a substation may maintain a local power network model based upon at least some of the global power network model. The substation may host one or more local grid management applications configured to provide robust functionality for the power grid based upon the local power network model. The global power network model and the local power network model may be synchronized as provided herein. It may be appreciated that a variety of techniques may be employed to synchronize power network models. In one example standardized communication protocols such as Inter Control Center Protocol ICCP Multispeak utility integration bus UIB technology and or other techniques may be used to send synchronization messages and or data between substations and or the network control center. In one example of synchronization between substations data may be synchronized between a first substation and a second substation utilizing process bus technology such as Distributed Network Protocol DNP 3.0 and or electrical substation automation e.g. IEC61850 . In another example of synchronization between a substation and a network control center the substation may comprise a network model management module configured to manage network model downloads and or updates from the network control center for updating a local power network model on the substation. For example an operator action within a distribution management system DMS on the network control center may trigger e.g. based upon a change to the global power network model an automated process to send a Common Information Model CIM message over ICCP from the network control center to the network model management module. The network model management module may store the local power network model within a shared memory so that local grid management applications executing on the substation may have access to the local power network model for example.

One embodiment of maintaining a distributed electrical power network model associated with a power grid is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method starts. At a global power network model may be maintained at a network control center configured to manage one or more substations associated with the power grid. The global power network model may comprise a global logical representation of the power grid. For example the global power network model may comprise information corresponding to components within the power grid such as transformers circuit breakers load changers wires etc. In this way the network control center may host one or more grid management applications that may manage the power grid based upon the global power network model e.g. a voltage and var control application may modify one or more parameters of a component within the power grid based upon voltage measurement data within the global power network model .

Power network model data may be distributed between the network control center e.g. the global power network control model and one or more substations e.g. one or more local power network control models which may be based upon at least some of the global power network control model . In this way execution of grid management applications may be distributed between the network control center and the one or more substations e.g. a local grid management application hosted by a substation may operate based upon a local power network model maintained by the substation . For example the first substation may be configured to execute a local grid management application e.g. a fault detection isolation restoration FDIR application a network reconfiguration application a voltage and var control application a demand response control application a power generation compensation application etc. based upon the first local power network model. In one example execution priority may be assigned to the local grid management application over a grid management application hosted by the network control center. That is many control decisions may be made based upon field data collected at substations which may be stored within the first local power network model. In this way the first substation may have up to date field data directly collected by the first substation before the network control center e.g. the first substation may propagate the field data to the network control center for updating at a later point in time which may result in higher latency for control decisions made by the network control center . Accordingly local grid management applications on the first substation may be assigned execution priority to make decisions and or send control signals to network distribution components within the power grid because the local grid management applications may have relatively low latency access to up to date field data for time sensitive decisions for example.

In one example the first local power network model may be maintained at the first substation at . The first local power network model may comprise a local logical representation of the power grid associated with the first substation e.g. a first power grid territory monitored by the first substation . It may be appreciated that in one example the first substation may comprise computational hardware capable of maintaining and or utilizing the first local power network model however such computational hardware may be insufficient to maintain and or utilize the global power network model. Accordingly the first local power network model may be based upon at least some of the global power network model e.g. data associated with the first power grid territory .

In one example of creating one or more local power network models the network control center may obtain power grid partition information from respective substations managed by the network control center. Power grid partition information for a substation may define an area of responsibility for the substation e.g. a first power grid territory for a first substation may comprise distribution network components and or connectivity between such components . For example substations may be partitioned e.g. in overlapping partitions to provide for redundant monitoring and or communication with distribution network components based upon feeder boundaries of supplying substations. A distribution management system DMS for example within the network control center may be configured to partition the global power network model into one or more local power network models for one or more substations based upon areas of responsibility of respective substations as provided by power grid partition information for example. The DMS may commission the local power network models to the substations e.g. during configuration of local grid management applications distributed to such substations . In one example the DMS may maintain copies of the local power network models which may be synchronized with the local power network models commissioned to the substations. Such synchronization may allow supplemental redundant and or backup functionality to be performed between the network control center and the substations.

In one example of power network models e.g. the global power network model and or a first local power network model a power network model may model distribution network components and or connectivity between such components on a per phase basis. For example a power network model may comprise a hierarchical representation of components and or connectivity e.g. a hierarchical representation comprising one or more power grid levels a power grid level comprising one or more sub areas a sub area comprising a plurality of substations a substation connected to a plurality of feeders a feeder feeding to a plurality of service transformers and a service transformer providing service to one or more end customers . The power network model may comprise various data associated with the components and or connectivity such as geographic information system data e.g. a GIS domain specifying impedance phase length geographical coordinates and or other information associated with distribution network components distribution management system data e.g. a DMS domain specifying real time monitoring data of distribution network components and or other domains. In this way a network control center may have a hierarchical understanding of distribution network components connectivity between such component and or domain data based upon the global power network model. The first substation may similarly for example have a local hierarchical understanding of distribution network components monitored by the first substation connectivity between such components and or domain data based upon the first local power network model.

The global power network model and one or more local power network models may be synchronized. In one example the network control center may detect a power network model change within the power grid e.g. an impedance of a wire within the power grid may be modified a new wire may be added to the power grid a voltage value may be measured a transformer malfunction may be detected etc. . For example a power utility may update a geographical information system maintained by the network control center with updated impedance phase geographical coordinates and or other information associated with the power grid. The network control center may update the global power network model based upon the power network model change. The network control center may send a power network model update corresponding to the power network model change to the first substation with an instruction for the first substation to update the first local power network model based upon the power network model update. In this way the first local power network model may be synchronized with the global power network model.

In another example the network control center may receive a power network model update from the first substation. The power network model update may correspond to a power grid event within a first power grid territory monitored by the first substation e.g. the first substation may have switched one or more customers from a first feeder to a second feeder . The network control center may update the global power network model based upon the power network model update. In another example the network control center may evaluate the power grid event against the global power network model to determine whether the power grid event was a desirable course of action. Responsive to a determination that corrective action is to be taken based upon the evaluation e.g. the second feeder may be overloaded the network control center may issue a control command defining the corrective action to one or more substations e.g. a second substation may be instructed to switch the one or more customers to a third feeder . At the method ends.

One embodiment of maintaining a distributed electrical power network model within a power grid is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method starts. At a first local power network model may be maintained at a first substation. The first local power network model may have been received from a network control center configured to manage one or more substations associated with a power grid. The first local power network model may comprise a local logical representation of the power grid e.g. representing a first power grid territory monitored by the first substation based upon at least some of a global power network model maintained by the network control center. One or more local grid management applications hosted by the first substation may perform various functionality within the first power grid territory using the first local power network grid model.

The global power network model maintained by the network control center and one or more local power network models maintained by substations may be synchronized. In one example the first substation may detect a power network model change corresponding to a power grid event within the first power grid territory monitored by the first substation e.g. new measurement data may be collected by the first substation . The first substation may update the first local power network model based upon the power network model change. In one example the first substation may identify one or more peer substations that are peers of the first substation e.g. one or more logically and or physically associated substations . The first substation may send a power network model update corresponding to the power network model change to the one or more peer substations and may instruct the one or more peer substations to update local power network models maintained at respective peer substations based upon the power network model update. In another example the first substation may send a power network model update to the network control center and may instruct the network control center to update the global power network model based upon the power network model update. In another example the first substation may receive a notification that a corrective action is to be taken based upon an evaluation by the network control center of the power grid event associated with the power network model update.

In another example the first substation may receive a power network model update from the network control center. The power network model update may correspond to a power network model change within the power grid detected by the network control center e.g. which may have been used by the network control center to update the global power network model . The first substation may update the first local power network model based upon the power network model update. The first substation may send a notification of the power network model update to one or more peer substations e.g. so that the one or more peer substations may update local power network models maintained by respective peer substations .

In another example the first substation may receive a power network model update from a second substation. The power network model update may correspond to a power grid event within a second power grid territory monitored by the second substation. The second power grid territory may be similar e.g. at least partially overlap or different than the first power grid territory. The first substation may update the first local power network model based upon the power network model update.

In one example of overlapping power grid territories the first power grid territory may correspond to a first feeder boundary e.g. the first substation may be assigned to monitor and or control distribution network components such as feeders within the first feeder boundary and the second power grid territory may correspond to a second feeder boundary e.g. the second substation may be assigned to monitor and or control distribution network components such as feeders within the second feeder boundary overlapping the first feeder boundary. Because the first and second substations may share feeder boundaries first and second power network models may comprise shared information for overlapping components and or connectivity within the shared feeder boundaries which may be used by the first and second substations to coordinate functionality. Access to shared information within local power network models may allow for improved situational awareness between substations. In one example of utilizing shared information within local power network models the first substation may detect a power grid disturbance e.g. a sudden plugging in of multiple electrical vehicles to feeders within the first feeder boundary which may result in a capacity shortfall . The first substation may evaluate shared information within the first power network model e.g. corresponding to the second power network model to determine that the second substation has access to a healthy feeder with available power capacity. The first substation may send a request for the second substation to provide power to one or more customers affected by the capacity shortfall using the healthy feeder. In another example the first substation may have a communication error with an intelligent electronic device IED within a shared feeder boundary with the second substation. The first substation may send a request for the second substation to communicate with the IED. The shared feeder boundary allows for communication redundancy between substations and network distribution components such as IEDs. In this way shared information between local power network models may allow for improved coordination between substations for example. It may be appreciated that illustrates an overlapping example. At the method ends.

The network model management component may be configured to update the global power network model based upon a first power network model update received from a substation e.g. a power network model update may be received from the first substation a second network model update may be received from the second substation etc. . The first power network model update may identify a power grid event within the power grid such as within the first power grid territory and or the second power grid territory . In this way the global power network model may be synchronized with the first local power network model and or the second local power network model .

The network model management component may be configured to send a second power network model update to one or more substations based upon a power network model change within the power grid e.g. a power grid event detected by the network control center . The second power grid network model update may comprise a notification for a substation to update a local power network model based upon the second power network model update. In this way the first local power network model and or the second local power network model may be synchronized with the global power network model .

A power network model update comprising updated network model data e.g. comprising updated GIS data may be sent to the first substation . The first substation may maintain a first local power network model which may be based upon at least some of the global power network model . The first substation my update the first local power network model based upon the power network model update to create updated network model data local to the first substation e.g. at least some of the updated network model data may comprise the updated GIS data . The first substation may send a notification of the power network model update to a second substation e.g. a peer substation . The second substation may maintain a second local power network model which may be based upon at least some of the global power network model . The second substation may update the second local power network model based upon the notification to create updated network model data local to the second substation e.g. at least some of the updated network model data may comprise the updated GIS data . In this way power network model data may be synchronized between the network control center the first substation and or the second substation . It may be appreciated that although not illustrated the updated network model data may be provided to a distribution management system DMS supervisory control and data acquisition SCADA system e.g. hosted by the network control center prior to being propagated out to substations. For example GIS data may be provided to the DMS SCADA and this and or other data may be updated in the DMS SCADA where the GIS and DMS SCADA may for example comprise separate software systems e.g. from different vendors .

The first substation may send a notification of the power network model change representing the feeder change power grid event to the second substation e.g. a peer substation . In this way the second substation may update a second local power network model to comprise updated feeder data based upon the notification . The first substation may send a power network model update to the network control center . The network control center may update a global power network model to comprise updated feeder data based upon the power network model update . In this way power network models maintained by the network control center the first substation and or the second substation may be synchronized.

The network control center may be configured to evaluate the power grid event performed by the first substation with the global power network model to determine whether the power grid event was a desired course of action. That is additional information unknown to the first substation may be specified within the global power network model which may be used to determine whether corrective action is to be taken. For example the network control center may determine that the power grid event of switching one or more customers from the first feeder to the second feeder may cause an overload for the second feeder. The network control center may determine that the one or more customers are to be switched from the second feeder to a third feeder within a second power grid territory monitored by the second substation .

Accordingly the network control center may update the global power network model to comprise updated feeder data for the third feeder e.g. and or remove the updated feeder data for the second feeder . The network control center may send the control command defining the corrective action to the second substation configured to monitor the third feeder within the second power grid territory . The second substation may implement the switch from the second feeder to the third feeder within the power grid . The second substation may update the second local power network model to comprise updated feeder data for the third feeder e.g. and or remove the updated feeder data for the second feeder . The network control center may send a notification of the corrective action to the first substation . The first substation may update the first local power network model to comprise updated feeder data for the third feeder e.g. and or remove the updated feeder data for the second feeder . In this way the network control center may issue control commands to correct power grid events that may not be desirable courses of action. It may be appreciated that alternatively or additionally the second substation may send a notification to the first substation of the corrective action to facilitate synchronization of the first local power network model .

A first substation may maintain a first local power network model . The first local power network model may comprise a local logical representation of a first power grid territory within the power grid e.g. one or more components within the power grid that are monitored by the first substation . For example the first local power network model may comprise feeder configuration data electronic relay data transformer data circuit breaker data conductor data and or a variety of other data for the first power grid territory within the power grid. In this way the first substation may host one or more local grid management applications that may utilize the first local power network model .

A second substation may maintain a second local power network model . The second local power network model may comprise a local logical representation of a second power grid territory within the power grid e.g. one or more components within the power grid that are monitored by the second substation . For example the second local power network model may comprise outage data feeder configuration data electronic relay data transformer data circuit breaker data conductor data and or a variety of other data for the second power grid territory within the power grid. In this way the second substation may host one or more local grid management applications that may utilize the second local power network model . It may be appreciated that different models may differ from one another have non overlapping portions of information etc. For example the second local power network model comprises an entry for outage data e.g. for the second territory whereas the first local power network model does not comprise such an entry e.g. for the first territory .

It may be advantageous for the first substation and the second substation to monitor overlapping portions of the power grid because the first substation and the second substation may coordinate decision making for electricity distribution functionality e.g. at least with regard to overlapping portions . Accordingly a first local power network model may be assigned to the first substation that extends the original first power grid territory to additionally comprise switch 7 switch 8 and or a distributed generator . In this way the first substation may monitor a first power grid territory comprising switch 1 switch 8 and the distributed generator . A second local power network model may be assigned to the second substation that extends the original second power grid territory to additionally comprise switch 7 switch 6 and or the distributed generator . In this way the second substation may monitor a second power grid territory comprising switch 6 switch 11 and distributed generator . The first power grid territory and the second power grid territory comprise an overlap e.g. a feeder boundary overlap comprising switch 6 switch 7 switch 8 and or the distributed generator . In one example of assigning local power network models the first and or second local power network models may be assigned to the respective substations during setup of local grid management applications at the substations based upon islanding information associated with the distributed generator e.g. the distributed generator may be supplying power in an islanding mode . In another example the first and or second local power network models may be updated from non overlapping models to overlapping models.

In one example of coordinating electricity distribution functionality a failure of the distributed generator may be detected e.g. by the first substation and or the second substation . The first substation and the second substation may coordinate recovery actions to open switch 7 and close either switch 6 or switch 8 to supply power to loads between switch 6 and switch 8 . The coordination between the first substation and the second substation may be performed by one or more first local grid management applications executing on the first substation e.g. a first local grid management application may utilize information within the first local power network model to determine whether to close switch 6 or switch 8 and or perform other recovery actions and or one or more second local grid management applications executing on the second substation e.g. a second local grid management application may utilize information within the second local power network model to determine whether to close switch 6 or switch 8 and or perform other recovery actions . For example the first substation may determine that there is a lack of resources to supply power to loads between switch 6 and switch 8 but that the second substation may have available resources to supply such power. Accordingly the first substation may send a request to the second substation to close switch 8 in order to provide power to loads between switch 8 and switch 6 . In this way the first substation and the second substation may coordinate recovery actions e.g. decision making functionality to efficiently recover from the failure of the distributed generator for example.

In one example the network model data may comprise a device parameter that may represent a device within the power grid. The device parameter may specify a unique identifier for the device a device category number geographical information e.g. a location coordinates measurements etc. for the device schematic information electrical ratings and data and or other information relating to the device. The network model data may comprise a device type parameter corresponding to the device within the power grid. The device type parameter may specify a unique identifier a description manufacturer data a use for the device specific device parameters and or other information relating to the device. The network model data may comprise a device category parameter corresponding to the device. The device category parameter may specify a unique identify for the device category a description for the device category a base type and or other information relating to a category of the device. In this way devices within the power grid may be represented by device parameters device type parameters device category parameters and or other parameters e.g. a device type category parameter e.g. comprising a name device category number etc. a symbol parameter e.g. comprising a background color scale bitmap information status etc. etc. within the network model data .

The network model data may represent other components within the power grid such as lines nodes loads sources capacitors and or other components. For example the network model data may comprise a line parameter that may represent a line e.g. a wire within the power grid. The line parameter may specify a unique identifier for the line geographical information e.g. a location coordinates etc. for the line schematic information electrical ratings and data e.g. an impedance measurement for the line a length of the line etc. and or other information relating to the line. In this way one or more lines within the power grid may be represented by line parameters within the network model data . The network model may comprise a capacitor parameter representing a capacitor within the power grid. The capacitor parameter may specify a unique identifier for the capacitor geographical information e.g. a location coordinates etc. of the capacitor schematic information electrical ratings and data e.g. a capacitance measurement etc. and or other information relating to the capacitor. In this way one or more capacitors within the power grid may be represented by capacitor parameters within the network model data . The network model data may comprise a node parameter representing a node within the power grid. The node parameter may specify a unique identifier for the node geographical information e.g. a location coordinates etc. of the node schematic information electrical ratings and data and or other information relating to the node. In this way one or more nodes within the power grid may be represented by node parameters within the network model data .

The network model data may comprise a load parameter representing a load within the power grid e.g. the load may represent a customer that consumes power provided by the power grid . The load parameter may specify a unique identifier for the load a device category number geographical information e.g. a location coordinates etc. of the load schematic information electrical ratings and data billing and customer data and or other information relating to the load. In this way one or more loads such as customers within the power grid may be represented by load parameters within the network model data . The network model data may comprise a source parameter representing a source e.g. a power source such as a generator within the power grid. The source parameter may specify a unique identifier for the source geographical information e.g. a location coordinates etc. of the source schematic information electrical ratings and data e.g. one or more loads supplied by the source power measurement data etc. and or other information relating to the source. In this way one or more sources within the power grid may be represented by source parameters within the network model data .

The network model data may for example be used by grid management applications hosted by the network control center and or local grid management applications hosted by the substation to manage components within the power grid. For example a substation may maintain a local power network model that comprises at least some of the network model data . A power distribution application e.g. local grid management application executing on the substation may for example utilize the network model data within the local power network model to perform power distribution functionality. For example the power distribution application may evaluate information such as power measurement data specified within the source parameter for a source generator to determine that the source generator is overloaded. The power distribution application may switch one or more customers from the source generator to a second source generator that has available power resources to supply power to the one or more customers e.g. a second source parameter not illustrated for the second source generator may be evaluated to determine that the second source generator has available power resources . In this way the network model data may be utilized to manage components within the power grid for example.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of the exemplary method for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a Universal Serial Bus USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

