---

title: Inferring contextual user status and duration
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes one or more server computing devices receiving first data associated with an activity recently performed or currently being performed by a user of one or more client computing devices. A current state of the user is inferred at least in part by analyzing at least the first data, and second data associated with one or more historical durations associated with the inferred current state is accessed. An end time associated with the inferred current state is estimated based at least in part on the second data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09098802&OS=09098802&RS=09098802
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09098802
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121220
---
This disclosure generally relates to social networking systems and the determination of the status of users of the social networking system.

A social networking system which may include a social networking website may enable its users such as persons or organizations to interact with it and with each other through it. The social networking system may with input from a user create and store in the social networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic information communication channel information and information on personal interests of the user. The social networking system may also with input from a user create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social networking system as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between or among users.

The social networking system may send over one or more networks content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and other data within the social networking system. The social networking system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user such as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.

Particular embodiments enable a computing system to infer the current status of a user based on signals collected by an electronic device of the user and then calculate an estimated duration for the user s inferred status based on historical data associated with the inferred status. In some embodiments the collected signals may include the type of electronic device e.g. web browser mobile computing device desktop computing device the IP address of the electronic device data collected from third party services e.g. Spotify Netflix or data collected from an sensors e.g. Global Positioning System GPS sensors Radio Frequency Identification RFID sensors attached to the electronic device. In some embodiments the collected signals may be combined with historical data associated with the user to infer the user s status. In some embodiments the user status may be that the user is watching a movie listening to a radio station watching a TV show on a streaming service playing a video game or exercising.

In particular embodiments the computing system further calculates the estimated duration for the user s inferred status based on stored historical data associated with the inferred status. In some embodiments the computing system will access data stored in the social graph of the social networking system associated with other user s average durations associated with the same inferred user status. In some embodiments the computing system will further access data associated with the first user s past durations for the inferred status. The computing system may then calculate an estimated end time for the user s inferred status based on the durations. In some embodiments the user s current status along with an estimated time of completion may thus be communicated to other user s of the social networking system.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and send social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational columnar correlation or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular types of databases this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of databases. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections e.g. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments third party system may be a network addressable computing system that can host exercise routine information e.g. Nike steaming pre recorded media e.g. Hulu Netflix SPOTIFY or video game hosting. Third party system may generate store receive and send status related data such as for example the duration of a run in progress the current run time of a viewed movie or the name of a game currently being played. Third party system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments one or more users may use one or more client systems to access send data to and receive data from social networking system or third party system . Client system may access social networking system or third party system directly via network or via a third party system. As an example and not by way of limitation client system may access third party system via social networking system . Client system may be any suitable computing device such as for example a personal computer a laptop computer a cellular telephone a smartphone or a tablet computer.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module advertisement targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Advertisement pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may send a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Ramble On using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to send to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the first data may be collected directly by the electronic device. For example the first data may be an identifier of the electronic device. In particular embodiments the identifier may specify the type of electronic device such as a smartphone laptop computer desktop computer tablet nettop computer television or other device. In other embodiments the identifier may indicate a specific electronic device as opposed to the broad category such as a specific television or computer owned by the user. In some embodiments the identifier may be a specific identifier code or signal stored or provided by the electronic device. In other embodiments the identifier may be a combination of signals intended for another purpose e.g. a MAC address that uniquely identify a device when compared against a database of known signals.

In particular embodiments the first data may be an Internet Protocol IP address or other networking protocol address of the electronic device. The IP address of the electronic device may be used to infer or determine other information regarding the electronic device. In particular embodiments the IP address may be used to determine the approximate location of the electronic device. In other embodiments the IP address may be used to determine the specific network the device is located on e.g. the electronic device is on the user s work network the electronic device is on the network associated with building one at the Menlo Park campus of the user s work . In other embodiments the electronic device may be using a static IP address and the IP address may be used to identify the specific device. In other embodiments the IP address may be used to identify the type e.g. GSM LTE landline public hotspot of network connection. IP address may be assigned to network access providers in logical blocks allowing the identification of the specific network access provider and network type.

In particular embodiments the first data may be a location of the electronic device. In some embodiments the location of the electronic device may be provided via a GPS device integrated into the electronic device assisted GPS AGPS or cellular tower triangulation. In particular embodiments the location of the electronic device may be computed from an IP address as described above. In some embodiments the location may be explicitly provided from the user. In particular embodiments the location may be inferred from the user s actions. For instance if the user has just Checked In at a coffee shop the user s smartphone can be assumed to be at the same location. In some embodiments the first data may include a velocity vector in addition to location data. The velocity vector may be used to determine an appropriate window in which to collect location data. For example an electronic device traveling at a high velocity must utilize a smaller sampling window than an electronic device at rest.

In particular embodiments the first data may be metadata received from a software application executing on the electronic device. For example the electronic device may be executing a streaming video application and that application may provide information identifying the media being watched. In particular embodiments the first data includes additional application reported information about the movie such as the current run time of the media the remaining time of the media or any other suitable information. In particular embodiments instead of being included with the first data this additional information may by accessed by the computing device receiving the first data such as for example a server associated with a social networking system. In some embodiments the software application may be an exercise application. As an example the exercise application may provide metadata including the start time of the exercise routine the intended exercise regimen to be performed and the heart rate or other biometric measurements of the user. In particular embodiments the software application may control voice over IP VoIP or cellular communications. For example the metadata provided by this application may include the parties communicating the type of communication e.g. telephonic video conference SMS MMS and the elapsed time of the communication.

In particular embodiments the first data may be received from the electronic device s sensors such as a radio frequency identification RFID reader. For example an RFID I O device may be included in the user s smartphone. If the user s smartphone passes within close proximity of known RFID tags the location of the user s smartphone will be known. In particular embodiments the user may make purchased via an electronic wallet program and an RFID I O device. For example if the user purchases lunch at a restaurant via an RFID reader the location and the contents of the transaction could be collected by the system.

In particular embodiments at step the system accesses historical data associated with the user. In particular embodiments the historical data associated with the user may be used to infer the current state of the user or to calculate an estimated end time for the current user state. In some embodiments the historical data is stored on the electronic device. As an example the electronic device may log data associated with the software controlling cellular communications for later access. In some embodiments call logging on the device and an address book stored on the device may be used to determine who is being contacted and to infer the importance of the contact based on the frequency of communication. The log may indicate that when the user initiates a cellular communication with a specific phone number the communication averages a duration of 35 minutes. In other embodiments the user may have previously indicated that a specific IP address or an IP address range is her apartment s network. In particular embodiments the step of accessing historical data associated with the user may not be performed or used to determined a current state of the user to calculate an estimated end time for the current user state or both.

In other embodiments the user is a user of a social networking system and the historical data associated with the user is stored in social networking system s social graph . For example the historical data may be associated with one or more user nodes concept nodes or edges of social graph . For example the system may access social graph to determine that the node for User G is connected to concept node for Company Acme by the worked at edge . The system can thereby determine based on historical data that User G works at Acme. As another example social graph may indicate that the user previously liked a specific radio show host thereby providing additional relevant input when the metadata associated with an internet radio application running on the electronic device indicates that the user is listening to the corresponding radio station. In some embodiments social graph may store historical data associated with the user indicating the average durations associated with an activity of the user.

At step the system infers a current state of the user by analyzing at least the first data and the historical data using one or more computer implemented algorithms. In particular embodiments the system will analyze all available inputs to construct a richer inferred user status conveying more useful information. As an example the minimum information to infer a user state may be that the electronic device is executing the SPOTIFY application. However as the system is able to analyze more inputs using ore or more computer implemented algorithms the inferred state can be more complete. For example as more inputs are provided possible inferred user states may be User is listening to Spotify User is listening to Imagine on Spotify User is listening to Imagine on Spotify while jogging or User is listening to Imagine on Spotify while jogging in Central Park. In particular embodiments the system may infer a current state of the user by analyzing at least the first data.

In particular embodiments the system may use regression analysis on some or all of the data collected in step and accessed in step to infer the current user status. In particular embodiments the system may use a linear regression of multiple independent variables to assign probabilities to a number of possible statuses. An exemplar linear regression may be y X X . . . Xwherein yrepresents a possible current user status chosen from a set of possible user statuses xrepresents an independent variable represents a weighting factor to be assigned to each variable and where n spans the values 1 to p. In a particular embodiments the independent variables may be any of the types of data discussed above in connection with step or .

In particular embodiments the system may use a decision tree analysis on some or all of the data collected in step and accessed in step to infer the current user status. The system may use data provided by the user to develop decision nodes and chance nodes of the decision tree to infer the current user status. For example a certain combination of inputs may predict a current user status. In particular embodiments the system may seek feedback from the user to improve its prediction functions. For example when the system infers a current user state it may query the user to verify the accuracy of the inference. In particular embodiments the system may utilize user verification to develop decision nodes and chance nodes. In particular embodiments the decision tree analysis may be desirable in a system with a small number of potential current user statuses. In particular embodiments the decision tree analysis may be combined with other prediction techniques.

In particular embodiments the system may use a neural network analysis on some or all of the data collected in step and accessed in step to infer the current user status. For example the system may implement a supervised learning neural network to find a function mapping input variables drawn from the data collected in step and accessed in step to known current user statuses. The neural networking analysis may try to minimize the mean squared error between the network s inferred current user statuses and known past user statuses. By minimizing this error the network is able to develop an approximated function for predicting inferred current user statuses.

In particular embodiments the system may use an expert system analysis on some or all of the data collected in step and accessed in step to infer the current user status. The system may build a knowledge base of the expert system based on historic data. For example the system may develop a rule that IF the electronic device is executing an internet radio application AND the user has liked the radio show host THEN the user is listening to the entire show of the host . As another example the system may develop a rule that IF the current location is a movie theater AND the user has indicated a desire to watch a specific film AND that film is playing at the user s location THEN the user is busy watching the film for the known duration . As another example the system may develop a rule that IF the electronic device is on the user s work network AND the electronic device is the user s work laptop AND the electronic device is currently executing a computer programming application THEN the user is busy working . By developing said knowledge base the system may then run input variables through the expert system inference engine either in batches or serially to infer the current user status.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of to infer the current user status and utilizing any combination of data collected in step and accessed in step or weighting of factors in the calculation of the predicted future user state.

At step the system accesses second data associated with one or more historical durations associated with the inferred current state. In particular embodiments the second data provides information on the average amount of time that individuals spend on any given user status. In some embodiments the system may access average historical durations for users globally or based on any applicable subset of users. For example the system may access average historical durations for all individuals in the same geographic area as the user all individuals in the same age group as the user and all individuals in the same profession as the user. By drawing on a range of inputs of varying connection to the user the system is better able to estimate the time spend by the user.

In particular embodiments social networking system maintains data on the average duration that users spend on a given user status. In particular embodiments the system may access historical duration data for all of social graph or an applicable subsection of social graph . In particular embodiments the system may only access historical duration data for nodes connected via edges to the user s node. In some embodiments the system may only access historical duration data for nodes within a certain degree of separation from the user s node where each edge represents a single degree of separation. By utilizing historical duration data that is closely related to the user on the social graph the system may be able to access data that is closely correlated with the user s preferences.

At step the system calculates an estimated end time associated with the inferred current user state based at least in part on the second data. In particular embodiments the estimated end time may also be based on the first data and or the historical data. In some embodiments the system is able to combine the data accessed in steps and to calculate an estimated duration for the inferred current user status. In some embodiments the function described in below may be used to calculate an estimated duration associated with the inferred current user status. The system may also be able to utilize data collected in step to calculate an elapsed time for the inferred current user status. In particular embodiments the system may combine all of this data to further calculate an estimated end time for the inferred current user state.

In particular embodiments the inferred current user status may be used to modify network operations and the estimated end time may be used to terminate the modified network operations. In some embodiments the user s status on the social networking system may be automatically updated with the inferred current user status. In this embodiment providing an estimated end time provides a richer online presence for the user and greater information to the user s contacts. In particular embodiments the user may use privacy settings to limit social networking system s sharing of the inferred current user status.

Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components devices or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components devices or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

The system may comprise one or more groups of historical duration data. As discussed above each group of historical duration data may be any suitable set or sub set of historical duration data. In some embodiments the sets or sub sets of historical duration data may be generated using a machine learned algorithm that is trained using a user s verification data associated with a specific inferred current user status. Machine learning is a scientific discipline that is concerned with the design and development of algorithms that allow computers to learn based on data. The computational analysis of machine learning algorithms and their performance is a branch of theoretical computer science known as computational learning theory. The desired goal is to improve the algorithms through experience e.g. by applying the data to the algorithms in order to train the algorithms . The data are thus often referred to as training data . Each set or sub set of historical duration data may produce a given estimated duration where a predictor function may take as an input some or all of the data accessed in method steps and and then outputs a measure of the likelihood that the inferred current user status will have an estimated duration.

In some embodiments one or more of the sets or sub sets of historical duration data may use a decay factor in which the strength of the signal from a set s historical activity decays based on the diversity of the set or the dissimilarity to the user. Moreover different sets of historical duration data may decay at different rates. For example some sets of historical duration data are loosely correlated with the inferred current user s status. As an example the global historical duration data for the duration of cellular phone calls may have little correlation with the estimated duration for the user s current status. Various decay mechanisms may be used for this purpose. For example a predictor function may use a mathematical function such as an exponential decay to decay the statistics about an estimated duration.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. In particular embodiments one or more of these I O devices may enable communication between an object and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a radio frequency identification RFID receiver and reader. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

