---

title: Method and apparatus for analyzing the spectrum of radio-frequency signals using a fiber optic recirculation loop
abstract: An apparatus comprising a fiber optical loop for conducting a first and a second pulse having a corresponding first and second wavelength, a first splitter for separating the first and second light pulses in the optical loop into a first and second light path to introduce a predetermined time delay between the first and second light pulses, a coupler for tapping a replica of the pair of light pulses from the loop, an auto-correlation module, coupled to the coupler, for correlating the replica of the pair of light pulses with each other to produce a set of data points comprising a plurality of multiplied and correlated pair of pulses and a transform module, coupled to the auto-correlation module, for transforming the data points into a channelized frequency spectrum.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08861567&OS=08861567&RS=08861567
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08861567
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121115
---
Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to radio frequency communications and more particularly to a method and apparatus for analyzing the spectrum of radio frequency signals using a fiber optic recirculation loop.

Typically public radio frequency RF communications are transmitted at a preconfigured frequency so that a receiver can tune to the particular frequency and receive the communications. In contrast private communications are transmitted across multiple frequencies e.g. using frequency hopping and or spread spectrum techniques . In some instances these private communications need to be captured by unintended receivers e.g. law enforcement agencies military organizations and the like. However difficulties arise when a communication is transmitted across various frequencies i.e. frequency hopping is employed in the form of short RF pulses where each broadcast is on a different frequency.

Without knowing the frequency hopping pattern a receiver must attempt to capture all signals in the relevant band. Typically all the signals within the band are digitized and then processed using a very high speed digital signal processing DSP system. Such high speed DSP systems are very costly to manufacture operate and maintain. In some instances the band of interest is divided into sub bands and each sub band is digitized and processed in a corresponding DSP. Such sub band channelization enables many signals to be quickly processed in parallel using less expensive DSP circuits i.e. lower speed circuits . However even a channelized broad band receiver is very expensive to manufacture operate and maintain.

Recently optical systems have found use in broad band signal processing wherein the received RF signals are used to modulate a light signal and the light signal is processed using optical signal processing. Such techniques unfortunately are prone to noise and system instability.

Therefore there is a need in the art for an improved a method and apparatus for analyzing the spectrum of radio frequency signals using a fiber optic recirculation loop.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to an apparatus comprising a fiber optical loop for conducting a first and second light generated by a first and second light source modulated by a radio frequency signal by a modulator to create a first and second pulse with corresponding first and second wavelengths a first splitter for separating the first and second pulses in the optical loop into a first and second path for a small portion of the loop to introduce a predetermined time delay between the first and second pulse a coupler for tapping a replica of the pair of pulses from the loop and an auto correlation module coupled to the coupler for correlating the replica of the pair of pulses with each other.

Another embodiment of the present invention is directed to a method determining a channelized frequency spectrum from an RF signal comprising conducting in a fiber optical loop a first and second light generated by a first and second light source modulating using a modulator the first and second light by a radio frequency signal to create a first and second pulse with corresponding first and second wavelengths splitting using a first splitter the first and second pulses in the optical loop into a first and second path for a small portion of the loop to introduce a predetermined time delay between the first and second pulse tapping using a coupler a replica of the pair of pulses from the loop correlating using an auto correlation module coupled to the coupler the replica of the pair of pulses with each other and performing a Fast Fourier Transform FFT using an FFT module on a plurality of the correlated pair of pulses generating a channelized frequency spectrum.

Embodiments of the present invention comprise a method and apparatus detecting radio frequency signals using a fiber optic recirculation loop by modulating an input RF signal using two lasers of differing wavelength and introducing a time delay between the lasers to auto correlate the two time delayed lasers. Light from the first and second laser with differing wavelengths are modulated using the received RF input signal which is comprised of multiple frequencies. The modulated lights are converted into a pair of pulses of light. The pulse circulates through the optical loop a finite number of times. A split path in the loop with a time adjuster allows for introducing a customizable delay between each pulse of light irrespective of the natural delay caused by the difference of travel time due to the difference of wavelength in the pair of pulses. For every cycle the pulses take through the fiber a replica pulse pair is tapped from the loop. The tapped pulse pair is photo detected to create two RF signals the two RF signals are correlated with each other within an RF mixer filtered and then digitized. Once the loop has run multiple times a Fast Fourier transform FFT is performed on the accumulated digitized signals data points to generate a channelized frequency spectrum representing information carried by the received RF signals.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the apparatus processes an RF input signal and produces frequency spectrum representing information carried by the RF input signal . The RF input signal is an RF signal and the first and second laser and are carrier wave light signals.

The RF input signal may be received via a conventional RF front end not shown comprising for example an antenna low noise amplifier and various filters. The choice of components and arrangement depends upon the nature of the signals that are to be processed. The selection of components and their arrangement is a design choice capable of being made by anyone with skill in the RF communication arts.

The lasers and provide laser light of wavelength and respectively. The combiner combines the laser lights from lasers and . According to an exemplary embodiment the combiner is a wavelength division multiplex WDM and the frequency difference between and is much larger than the RF microwave operation frequencies and bandwidth. In some embodiments the laser light from lasers and is infrared light and the difference in wavelength and is approximately 100 GHz. The combined light output from the combiner is optionally coupled to a polarizer to polarize the light. According to an exemplary embodiment the polarizer is a fiber polarizer. The combiner or optionally the polarizer transmits the combined light to the optical modulator to modulate the laser lights by the input RF signal. The polarizer may be located before the optical modulator or before the optical modulator according to various embodiments of the present invention.

The optical modulator modulates light from the laser and with the RF input signal creating an RF modulated light wave. According to an exemplary embodiment the lasers and are continuous wave lasers. Also according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the optical modulator is a Mach Zehnder modulator. The optical switch e.g. an optical gate switch converts the modulated light into a pair of RF modulated optical pulse. Optionally the switch is a 1 2 switch in which the first output carries the pulses to a 2 2 optical coupler . The second output of the switch can be used to connect to another optical switch for time division multiplex cascading to additional recirculation loops to process any signals received within a large time window such as continuous wave CW signals as opposed to pulsed RF signals.

Once the switch generates the optical pulses the pulses enter the coupler . According to an exemplary embodiment the coupler has a coupling ratio range from 50 50 to 1 99 . Once the pulses enters the switch the switch closes so further pulses cannot enter the loop causing distortion and noise.

The optical recirculation loop is formed by connecting one output of the coupler which according to an exemplary embodiment is a 2 2 coupler to the second input of the same coupler with several optical components in the loop. According to exemplary embodiments of the present invention the loop length generally does not affect the ability to tap out replica pulse pairs however loops with length less than one pulse width will cause overlap and distort results. The loop may be a dispersion shifted fiber where there is non dispersion around the operating wavelength of the lights.

The optical loop contains an isolator which isolates the pulses. An optional WDM combines a third wavelength by forming a third loop between the WDM splitter and . The amplifier amplifies the isolated pulse pairs from isolator . Optionally isolator is placed in the loop after the amplifier to allow a continuous wavelength CW light with the third wavelength be amplified so to keep the amplifier working in a steady state instead an unstable state when there are only short pulse to be amplified. This will further reduce any noise in the pulse pairs. According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the optical amplifier is an Erbium doped fiber amplifier EDFA though the present invention does not limit the type of optical amplifier used.

The optical amplifier amplifies the pulses to compensate for the coupling loss. The isolator is coupled to the loop to prevent any light going in the reverse direction from causing interference in the loop . The pulse pairs are then transmitted to a splitter . According to an exemplary embodiment the splitter is a WDM splitter which routes the pulse pairs into a first path and a second path according to their wavelength and to introduce a preconfigured delay between the transmission of the first and second pulse. This allows for auto correlation of the two pulses later on.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the EDFA can be replaced by two EDFAs placing in each path and . According to an alternate embodiment there is a gain control attenuators in each path and in place of the two EDFAs to balance the intensity power of the first and second modulated signal. The WDM splitter is according to an exemplary embodiment implemented a two wavelength filters which filter for optical noise produced by the amplifier .

Filter is an optional filter for removing any further noise in the pulse traversing the first path . The adjuster is an optical path length adjuster for adjusting relative travelling time between the two differing wavelength pulses i.e. the path length adjuster will increase or decrease the time it takes for a pulse travelling the first path to travel through the path . A combiner combines the two pulses and couples the pulses to a switch which according to an exemplary embodiment is a high speed optical switch used as a time domain filter to filter out light noise outside of the switching window. The phase shifter is optionally added before the switch to introduce a random phase shift to prevent the residue CW light noise because resonant noise lasing . The output of switch is connected to a polarizer for reducing polarization dependent effects inherent in the fiber of the loop to change the coupling ratio for the coupler and then back to an input of the coupler to close the loop .

The electronic time control circuit controls the functionality of the switch by synchronizing with control of the switch . The coupler outputs a replica pulse pair at its second output after each loop cycle. The splitter e.g. a WDM splitter splits the replicated pulse pairs into individual pulses. The photodetectors and each convert the RF modulated optical pulses into RF modulated electronic pulse signals.

For n passes through the loop the nth pulse pair replica will have a time delay of n t between the two pulses due to the first path having the adjuster for adjusting travel time of one of the pulses where t L c. L is the effective optical path difference of the two pulse wavelengths in one loop cycle. The wavelengths of the lasers and are customizable. Optionally an RF phase shifter is connected to the output of the photodetector to set an initial phase adjustment for example between the two pulses of each pair.

If a single RF frequency signal is introduced at the input for the npulse pair the two pulse signals are represented as A cos t and B cos t n t where A and B are the pulse signal amplitudes and tis the time that has passed as of the nloop cycle. In an exemplary embodiment a negative feedback control is provided for a servo from the combiner to control the gain of the amplifier in the loop preventing over and under amplification and compensating for drift in the loop .

The output RF electronic pulse signals from the photodetectors and are coupled to a RF electronic multiplexer circuit to multiply the pulse pairs together. This is also known as an auto correlation module. The multiplexer integrates many pulses over time. The pulse pairs are auto correlated to help in finding the presence of repeating patterns and periodic signals in the RF input . According to an exemplary embodiment the circuit comprises a 2 1 RF combiner connected to a square law RF detector to produce the multiplication product for the correlation process.

In an exemplary embodiment the detector is a square law RF detector such as a crystal detector Low Barrier Schottky diode or an RF mixer. The output of the multiplexer is coupled to an optional RF filter which filters the high band frequencies i.e. a low pass filter yielding just a baseband signal cos n t and a DC signal. A DC block may optionally be used to filter out the DC signal. The baseband signal is coupled to an ADC such that each replicated pulse pair yields a data point for autocorrelation with a different delay between the pulse pair.

These points are stored in memory as data points . The computer e.g. a fully programmable gate array or the like contains a Fast Fourier transform FFT module in its memory which performs a Fourier transformation to transform the series of pulse pairs from time domain to frequency domain thereby obtaining the RF spectrum of the input RF pulse . In an exemplary embodiment the memory may include one or more of the following random access memory read only memory magneto resistive read write memory optical read write memory cache memory magnetic read write memory and the like as well as signal bearing media not including non transitory signals such as carrier waves and the like.

The FFT module performs an FFT on the data points from the ADC to generate a channelized frequency spectrum. The FFT module converts the data points from the time domain to the frequency squared domain from which the frequency spectrum data is obtained using signal processing techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

According to other exemplary embodiments of the present invention an optical path length random perturbation device such as an optical phase shifter or fiber stretcher is inserted in the loop to reduce the resonance effect on the noise signal in the loop. An optional ring laser loop is added in the loop to stabilize the optical amplifier by allowing a third wavelength be constantly amplified by the EDFA and cause lasing in continuous wave CW mode. In other embodiments laser and laser are replaced with laser transmitters with wavelength and . The RF input signal is split and used to modulate the two laser transmitters.

According to other exemplary embodiments of the present invention photodetectors and the splitter and the combiner are replaced by one photodetector and an amplifier combination at the output of lop at the 2 2 coupler . According to this embodiment optical pulse monitoring by the gain control serve must be tapped from inside the loop as opposed to from the combiner .

At step first and second RF signals are generated from the pulse pair and then auto correlated at step . The two RF signals have a time delay between them due to the first path having an adjuster embedded in it for reducing or increasing the time a pulse takes to travel the first path . At step data points are generated by the ADC to digitize the auto correlation and the digitized data points are stored in memory . At step the method determines whether N points have been stored.

If N points have not been stored the method returns to step to tap more pulses from the loop . If N points have been stored the FFT module performs a FFT on the N points to generate a frequency domain spectrum at step . At step it is determined whether a new pulse should enter the loop. If so the method proceeds to step of modulating light from a laser with an RF input. If there are no more pulses the method ends at step . According to an exemplary embodiments N 500 1000 or the like.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Various elements devices modules and circuits are described above in associated with their respective functions. These elements devices modules and circuits are considered means for performing their respective functions as described herein. While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

