---

title: Inductively shorted bicone fed tapered dipole antenna
abstract: An antenna for passing a cable to a second antenna includes shorts positioned along a circumferential perimeter of the antenna, first and second bicone sections of oppositely directed conductive cone sections energized at respective apices and opening along an antenna axis, first and second dipole sections, where the first dipole section is joined together with and extending from the first conical section to the circumferential perimeter of the antenna, and where the second dipole section is joined together with and extending from the second conical section to the circumferential perimeter of the antenna.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09077080&OS=09077080&RS=09077080
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09077080
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120523
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

Antennas that have two or more relatively isolated paths from their feed points to their ends on two or more dimensions of a structure or have two or more relatively isolated or independent elements can have a resonance associated with each path or element. For example the elements of one of the bifilar helixes of the quadrifilar helix described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 138 331 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for background information only are an example of two or more relatively isolated elements.

If the resonances are adjacent to each other in frequency they can combine to form a resonance anti resonance impedance loop with a bandwidth formed of the overlapping bands of both resonances. The overlapping bands can be formed in one of several ways. In one way the feed points of two resonant elements can be feed in parallel which results in an input impedance that is the parallel combination of the impedances of each element where ideally the elements are fully isolated from each other. A resonance antiresonance loop can form between the two resonant frequencies.

Infinite isolation occurs if the elements are separated by infinite distance or if each element occupies its own dimension independent and located 90 degrees from other occupied dimensions. When elements are closer together coupling between them occurs and bandwidth loss from the increase in the magnitude of the reflection coefficient about the antenna characteristic impedance Z is possible. Much tighter spacing and coupling can also change reflection coefficient phase and impedance locus shape.

As an example the elements of one of the bifilar helixes of the antenna of U.S. Pat. No. 5 138 331 were very tightly spaced at approximately 0.02 wavelength separation because of space constraints. Also the configuration did not allow a second element to be rotated 90 degrees away into another dimension from a first element. Thus the elements were tightly coupled to each other. This initially introduced a large Voltage Standing Wave Ratio VSWR spike in the band overlap area between any two resonance frequencies of any two adjacent elements fed in parallel caused by a non radiating transmission line formed between the elements. In the overlap area the shorter element with a resonance frequency above the area has a capacitive impedance of negative phase approaching 90 degrees. The longer element with a resonance frequency below the area has an inductive impedance of positive phase approaching 90 degrees. The resultant phase difference approaches the 180 degrees of a transmission line. To rid the transmission line and spike a feed phase difference of 180 degrees was introduced between the elements to bring the approaching 180 degrees phase difference to approaching 0 degrees. In the areas of the resonances and their overlapping the resultant impedance still had some loss of bandwidth from an increased reflection coefficient magnitude about the antenna characteristic impedance Z when compared to the calculated parallel combination of the measured impedances of each element by themselves.

Another way overlapping bands can be formed is as follows. One resonant element can be fed with coupling to other parasitic elements resonant at adjacent frequencies. The impedance locus becomes that of the fed element with the parasitic elements inserting resonance antiresonance loops in the locus near the parasites resonance frequencies for an increase of bandwidth. This is further explained in the background in U.S. Pat. No. 6 118 406.

Another way overlapping bands can be formed is as follows. A parallel combined impedance resonance antiresonance loop can result from the resonances of two or more paths on two or more independent 90 degree referenced to a feed point separated dimensions of an antenna of simple shape. This type of impedance is more complex such as with the location of the resonance frequencies because the parts of the antenna in each dimension are not fully isolated from each other. From the feed point currents are not necessarily restricted from flowing only along the direction of the dimensions but can flow also along paths between the dimensions. For example for a flat rectangle dipole currents can flow not only along the direction of the independent dimensions of length and width but along a diagonal between these dimensions from the feed point to a corner on the open end of the rectangle.

Ninety degrees of separation allows maximum isolation. However antennas with geometries of maximum separations of less the 90 degrees can still have a resonance for the length at each extreme of the separation but there will be less isolation and independence between each resonance and less bandwidth. For example the flared edges of a flat bicone with a flare angle of less than 90 degrees can be made with asymmetrical lengths. In the extreme case of 0 degrees of separation there is only one dimension of one length and thus only one possible resonance.

In general a certain amount of electrical distance must exist between two paths for each path to be able to be a distinct resonant path. For paths along independent dimensions this is afforded simply by the physical 90 degree separation between two paths. However enough electrical separation between paths physically separated by less than 90 degrees also allows distinct resonant paths. This results in the fact that in general for a continuous structure more resonant paths can exist on the structure as frequency is increased.

As frequency is increased an initially resonant basic antenna tends to lose its resonant behavior as it becomes more broadband from the following factors 

Reflection coefficient and VSWR shows in more detail how ideally an overlapping band can be formed using an example of a case of parallel combination of two ideal resonant bands of narrow bandwidth. Traces shows an ideal single wavelength resonance at plotted versus electrical length over the range of 0 to wavelengths and is representative of a simple open wavelength antenna element. It was generated by taking a 0.9 magnitude reflection coefficient circle and changing its normalized characteristic impedance Zso that the point where it crosses the real axis of the Smith Chart at its resonant point would lie at the center of the Smith Chart. The rest of the traces show the resultant impedance when the impedances of two such resonance traces are combined in parallel with increasing degrees of difference of their resonance frequencies and band centers in terms of differences in their electrical length. The electrical length shown is the average of lengths of both traces. Traces show the case when both resonant frequencies coincide with a difference in electrical length of 0. Although the VSWR traces show an apparent increase in bandwidth there is no difference in bandwidth. The apparent increase is due to a halving of the impedance with a resultant detuned VSWR both due to the parallel method of combining the impedances. With a parasitic combination this would not occur. Traces show a slight 0.0125 electrical length difference in resonances with resonant points and . Some increase in bandwidth is seen and a small tight dip in the shape of a V is seen in the impedance locus. Traces show a case of further separation of 0.025 at resonant points and . More increase in bandwidth is seen but with a rise in VSWR starting to occur at the center of the band. The tip of the V has started to form into a less tight resonance antiresonance loop with a spreading out of the locus. The apparent center of the two bands of the two resonances start to appear at and but the actual centers are at and and on the Smith Chart . The difference is due to the impedance combination mechanism and selection of the Smith Chart characteristic impedance. Further separation of the resonance frequencies would push the bands further apart with a large VSWR occurring between the bands and an increase in the size of the resonance antiresonance loop. From another viewpoint as the bandwidths of two adjacent resonances increases there is more overlapping of bands with the resonance antiresonance loop of the overlapping area decreasing in size from an example loop of trace to the indented V of trace to disappearing almost to a single spot on a trace similar to point on trace . A large frequency range of the impedance locus would appear almost at a single point on the Smith Chart. Overall larger resonant bands would allow larger combined bands.

For larger bands to be matched more than two resonances such as for example from more than two resonant elements are used with all element resonance frequencies staggered side by side across the band and all elements fed in parallel. For any given frequency in the band only one element is radiating at resonance at low impedance or the areas near and between the adjacent resonances of two radiating elements are overlapping at low impedance. The resultant low impedance is only from these elements. All other elements are at high impedance with little effect on the resultant impedance and with little radiation. Those resonant above the given frequency are shorter with a high capacitive impedance those resonant below the given frequency are longer with a high inductive impedance. For very large bands all the elements will eventually radiate at their next higher order resonances and thus the staggering of frequencies can continue with the frequencies of these resonances subject to the patterns of these resonances and their resistive impedances being acceptable.

Ideally the resonance antiresonance loop of any type of combination of adjacent resonances should be centered on the real axis of the Smith Chart. However other variables of the antenna such as the condition of dimensions and their associated resonances not being fully isolated from each other or other components of capacitance inductance and delay reflective of the antenna geometry can move and rotate the resonance impedances and resultant loop in the capacitive or inductive direction. For dimensional resonances their frequency locations and combining can become complex since continuous antenna elements have no distinct boundaries between the dimensions in which different sized pieces of an element can independently resonate. Also antenna shape largely determines locations of resonance paths.

The combination of two resonances of two largely different bandwidths can also cause the loop to be off of the real axis where the narrow band resonance appears as a small loop almost anywhere in the impedance locus of the large band resonance. For example a narrow band resonant length of a narrow feed cable feeding a broadband resonant fat dipole or broader band bicone antenna on its axis can insert a small resonance antiresonance loop into the impedance locus of the antenna when the antenna is electrically small and of high impedance. For another example slight irregularities such as asymmetries or cracks in an antenna can also create slightly different length narrow resonant paths that can add small loops anywhere in an antenna impedance.

Ideally the resonance antiresonance loop should center about the feed Z typically 50 ohms. For simple antennas composed of two elements that have a width and length this can be done to varying extents by controlling the antenna characteristic impedance Zwhere Zis given by

Examples of two dimensional antennas whose dimensions can be at least roughly of resonant length are flat dipoles the end fire slot and the rectangular patch fed at the center of one of its edges. Even the three dimensional bicone fed dipole discussed in detail later can have two resonant dimensions e.g. its diameter and its length from its feed point to its end although usually the bicone aperture is open enough so that the impedance of the bicone part or diameter of the antenna is very broadband and almost nonresonant.

A shorted bicone antenna as illustrated in includes a top cone a bottom cone a feed point at a feed angle between top cone and bottom cone a feed cable to connect to feed point and narrow inductive shorts placed vertically across and connected to the outer edges of the cones of the antenna allowing cables to pass the antenna vertically via the shorts. This allows other antennas to be mounted and fed above the shorted bicone. The effects of the shorts on the normal bicone are described below and in more detail in U.S. Pat. No. 6 268 834 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for background information only.

The shorts somewhat increase the cut in frequency of the bicone. The cut in frequency is defined where and above which the voltage standing wave ratio VSWR about the antenna characteristic impedance Zbecomes low and flat for infinite bandwidth. To minimize this rise the shorts are made as narrow as practically possible and their number is minimized.

At lower frequencies from roughly 1500 MHz to 0 Hz where the radial path for example from the feed point to center for example of the shorts becomes small the shorts wrap the Smith Chart impedance locus of the open antenna progressively an extra half turn counterclockwise to a short at 0 Hz when the open antenna is fully shorted. At 0 Hz the locus is wrapped an entire half turn from an open to a short. At somewhat higher frequencies from 1000 to 1700 MHz where the path is no longer small an increase of the bandwidth of the antenna occurs from a significant tightening of the impedance locus in the shape of a shallow V. The tip of the V has a tiny loop at around 1100 MHz to 1300 MHz. This can be seen in the impedances of the antenna before and after addition of the shorts as shown in FIGS. 4A and 4B in U.S. Pat. No. 6 268 834. At higher frequencies above 2000 MHz there is little difference in bandwidth with the addition of the shorts.

The V shaped part of the locus appears to be that of the V shaped part of locus of overlapping resonances of except the resonances are separated slightly more which allows the resonance antiresonance loop to form. The resonances can be from two different antenna parts or components.

The shorts force the antenna to have two parts a shorted part and an open part. The shorted part consists of four shorted sections of roughly 45 degrees of circumference about the antenna axis per section for half of the total circumference with a short centered in each section. The open part consists four open sections between the shorted sections of roughly 45 degrees of circumference about the antenna axis per section for the other half of the circumference. The boundaries between the sections are not sharp but instead there is a smooth transition when moving circumferentially from one type of section to another. A section exists on both cones of the bicone at the same circumferential positions on both cones. Half of a section on a given cone surface is pie shaped extending from the feed point to the circumference of the antenna. An example of half of a shorted section is shown as the area between radial lines and circumferential line .

The lengths of the open and shorted parts can be resonant. The length of the open part is the 2.74 of example radial path from the feed point to an open edge point of the bicone between two shorts. The length of the shorted part is the 2.74 of the example radial path from the feed point to an end of a short at an open edge of the bicone at and the length 1.37 of example path from point to the center of the attached example short for a total length of 4.11 . If the resonant frequencies of the open and shorted lengths are adjacent their bands can overlap and form the observed resultant V shaped part of the locus.

A given open end of the bicone and an adjacent shorted end are separated by 45 degrees of azimuth about the antenna axis and thus there is at least some isolation between the two paths. With antennas with fewer shorts and wider sections there is more isolation between the shorted and open parts with more independence of the resonances.

Since a given part is half as wide in the circumferential direction as the original antenna s 360 degrees of circumference its bandwidth can be expected to be roughly one half of the original antenna and be more resonant. The shorted part would have even less bandwidth because of the narrow band of its narrow shorts. The more resonant narrower band impedances will change quicker with frequency than the very broadband resonances of the original bicone. Since the exact reduction in bandwidth of the parts is unknown and since the parts are not fully isolated from each other their exact resonance frequencies are unknown. However at least the shorted resonance should be close to that of its path length since the short itself is narrow and narrowband.

The following table shows what the resonant frequencies of the part lengths would be if they are narrow band and any resonance antiresonance loops between these frequencies observed in the impedance of the antenna in . In parenthesis are the resonances of the original bicone. The V overlap area between the first two resonances is the most noticeable because just above cut in where the antenna becomes well matched and broadband the antenna is most narrowband where narrowband loops can form. At higher frequencies it is difficult to see any band overlapping since the antenna is more broadband and resonances are broadened significantly. Thus overlapping would produce at most only clustering of frequencies in the overlap area of the impedance locus and not any indentations or loops. The first two resonance frequencies of 1078 and 1437 MHz of respectively the open and shorted sections are approximately in the same positions relative to the V as are resonance frequencies of theoretical trace of . If instead the open section resonance frequency is lower and closer to the original open bicone resonance frequency of 695 MHz then the shorted resonance has combined with a section of the open section impedance that is somewhat higher in frequency than its resonance frequency.

Overall a tightening of the impedance locus occurred which appears to be from a band overlapping mechanism on the antenna provided by at least one resonance due to a shorted path occurring near a resonance of the open parts of the antenna.

The shorts physically provide a balun path across the radiation aperture of the antenna so other cables to antennas mounted above the shorted bicone can pass the bicone without affecting its performance. At higher frequencies where the distance between adjacent shorts becomes an appreciable part of a wavelength nulls start to form in the azimuth patterns about the shorts and increase in depth with increasing frequency.

The bicone can help prevent the pattern splitting of a normal dipole. At lower frequencies the bicone is small and radiates little and the antenna is thus a dipole composed of both the bicone and dipole sections and having a dipole impedance radiating normal dipole patterns. Its whole length from the feed point to the ends of the dipole sections radiates. This length is the whole length of radial dipole path and from feed point to the end of the dipole section and is also the length of the same path on the opposite cone section and dipole section . At higher frequencies when a normal dipole is long enough an approximately wavelengths path length for elevation patterns to start to split on the horizon the plane perpendicular to the antenna axis at its feed point if the bicone is large enough above its cut in frequency it can start radiating a significant amount of the applied antenna power as its non splitting bicone pattern. This radiation will help fill in the nulls of the dipole radiation. At even higher frequencies by the time the wave introduced at the feed point reaches the end of the bicone at edges most of its power has been radiated before reaching the dipole sections and thus the antenna radiates patterns of a bicone with an impedance mainly of the bicone by itself. Since a bicone with a small enough feed angle can maintain radiation on the horizon for a very large bandwidth it can help stabilize the initial dipole patterns over a large bandwidth.

When the bicone is large a significant part of the applied antenna power has radiated by the time the wave reaches the end of the bicone and the beginning of the dipole sections . The impedance is mainly that of the bicone and any effects from the dipole sections is added to a bicone impedance. When the bicone is small the whole antenna radiates with a dipole impedance with its main effects being from the dipole sections . These effects on the antenna impedance are described further below.

The addition of the dipole sections to the bicone gives the antenna two lengths that can possibly resonate or at least provide two bands. Radial path from the feed point to the edge of cone at point is the length of the bicone. This path plus its continuation as radial path on the dipole section to the end of the dipole section at point is a dipole length.

The details of the impedance behavior of a bicone fed dipole can be examined by looking at the impedance and VSWR of a sample bicone fed dipole of the following dimensions as shown in 

There continues to be a need for improved performance of antenna systems in all frequency ranges specifically in the lower frequency ranges of bicone fed antenna systems.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to extend the low frequency response of a shorted bicone antenna by using a combined bicone and dipole antenna.

An antenna for passing a cable to a second antenna includes shorts positioned along a circumferential perimeter of the antenna a bicone of first and second oppositely directed bicone sections consisting of conductive cone sections energized at respective apices and opening along an antenna axis first and second dipole sections where the first dipole section is joined together with and extending from the first cone section to the circumferential perimeter of the antenna and where the second dipole section is joined together with and extending from the second cone section to the circumferential perimeter of the antenna.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description figures and claims.

In order to improve the low frequency response of the antenna the cut in frequency of the shorted bicone should be lowered. A simple solution is to scale the antenna size according to the new cut in frequency which would increase its diameter and height. However the diameter cannot be increased since it is fixed at the maximum inner diameter of the antenna s radome which is defined as a physical structure which covers and protects the antenna. The radome can take on any shape and for the preferred embodiment it has a cylindrical shape with a curved inner surface and a hemispherical cap.

Even with a fixed diameter the height could not be increased since an increase in height would increase the feed angle which would cause the antenna characteristic impedance Zto increase causing a mismatch. A solution is to convert the bicone part of the antenna into a bicone fed dipole of larger height with factors as noted below. The increased height of the overall larger antenna results in its cut in frequency being lowered.

The dipole section of the antenna could not be a vertical cylinder of pitch angle of 90 degrees relative to a horizontal plane perpendicular to the antenna axis which is the horizon when the antenna axis is mounted vertically since the shorts can only touch the top and bottom of the antenna which would be at the top and bottom of the dipole sections. A vertical cylinder would touch the shorts all along its length shorting out and essentially negating the dipole section as being part of the antenna. Thus the pitch angle of the dipole sections is set to less than 90 degrees resulting in the dipole section being like a bicone of high pitch angle. The angle has to be appreciably less than 90 degrees so that some separation exists between the shorts and the dipole. If the shorts are too close to the dipole sections a transmission line starts to form between the shorts and dipole sections which then decreases bandwidth. Thus for shorts to appear reasonably disconnected from the dipole not only must they be physically disconnected from the dipole except for their connection points at the top and bottom of the dipole but a reasonable distance must separate the shorts and the dipole.

To maintain an average pitch angle roughly equal to that of the original antenna for the same characteristic impedance Zof the original antenna the pitch angle of the bicone section of the antenna is decreased from the original 30 degrees while the pitch angle of the dipole section is increased from 30 degrees.

To ensure a smooth taper from the feed point to the ends of the antenna the pitch angle of the bicone section is made less than that of the dipole section. The radial width of the bicone section is set at of the total antenna radius and the radial width of the dipole section is set at of the total antenna radius. This approximates a continuous smooth curve between the feed point and the antenna ends required for minimum reflections for a fat dipole.

To maintain the properties of the bicone to as low a frequency as possible such as a low flat VSWR above cut in and a constant Z the feed area of the antenna is made with a bicone having a diameter as large as possible. This diameter is determined by the pitch angle of the dipole sections.

The resultant modified bicone fed dipole antenna includes an antenna axis a width or diameter an antenna radius and an antenna height as shown in A and B. The antenna is made of a bicone section and a dipole section joined together.

The bicone section includes bottom cone section and top cone section . Cone sections and each have an equal cone radius . Each cone section has a same pitch angle also referred to as a half feed angle between the cones and the horizon. The radial length of a bicone section is or .

The modified dipole sections having pitch angles less than a normal 90 degrees include a bottom dipole section and a top dipole section . Dipole sections and occupy the outer radial section of the antenna s full radius . The diameter of the antenna is the diameter of the bottom of dipole section and the top of dipole section . The height of the antenna is the distance between the bottom of section and the top of section . Each modified dipole section can be looked upon as a bicone of high pitch angle and whose cone tips have been cut off. The angle between each dipole section and the horizon is the pitch angle . The radial length of a dipole section is or .

The antenna is fed at feed point between the apexes of the bicone sections with coaxial cable 0.141 semi rigid . At the feed point the outer conductor of the cable penetrates through a hole not shown in the center of bottom cone and is connected e.g. with solder to the bottom cone at point . Alternatively if the bottom bicone section is thick enough or if the area at the apex of the bicone section is built up enough to be thick enough a small hole not shown can be tapped into the section at an angle to intersect with the outer conductor hole to allow placement of a screw in the hole that is used to press outer conductor against the inside of its hole in the lower bicone section. The outer conductor s end may stop at point or continue in the vertical direction a short distance past point as shown in . Also at the feed point the inner conductor of the cable extends a short vertical distance past the end of the cable and is connected to the top cone of the bicone section at point . Connection can be made by allowing the inner conductor to pass through a hole not shown in the cone at point a short distance and then soldering the conductor in the hole. Alternatively if the upper bicone section is thick enough or if the area at the apex of the bicone section is built up enough to be thick enough a small hole not shown can be tapped into the section at an angle to intersect with the inner conductor hole to allow placement of a small screw in the hole that is used to press inner conductor against the inside of its hole in the upper bicone section. Normally distances and in are made as short as possible. Four inductive shorts and made initially of lengths of 0.141 semi rigid coaxial cables are connected with their outer conductors to the extreme ends of the dipole sections of the antenna as shown in and indicated in TABLE 3 below. Connection is made by drilling holes in the dipole section to allow the shorts cylinders to pass through and then by bonding by solder or weld the outside of the shorts cylinders to the surface of the dipole section.

Originally the bypass cable was solid and was to be used as a short across the antenna to allow it to use itself to pass the antenna. The outside of the outer conductor of the section of cable that bypasses the antenna between the extreme ends of the dipole sections e.g. between points and was to be the short. However it is cumbersome to bend a solid cable around the ends of the dipole sections while also requiring the cable to be physically connected to the ends of the dipole sections. It is easier instead to make the short as a hollow tube and pass a looser flexible independent cable through the tube and pass the antenna. This also simplifies the antenna since the bypass cable which belongs to the other antenna is not physically bonded to the antenna.

It can be cumbersome forcing a cable through a hollow tube. Also a cable already with connectors at both ends would require removal of one the connectors before placing the cable into the tube. For ease the tube can be cut symmetrically along it axis to make half hollow tubes and use one as the short. The cable then is simply laid in the hollow of the half tube and held in place by wrapping tape around the half tube and cable over the full length of the short. To reduce any possibility of the antenna seeing the cable RF wise the opened hollow side of the tube is faced radial away from the axis of the antenna. To fully hide the cable the tape can be conductive although this was found to be unnecessary.

Alternately a flexible cable can follow the path of a solid short by simply taping it to the short along its length. For most applications the cable will be close enough to the short so RF wise it will more or less not be seen by the antenna and the increased cross sectional area of the resultant short will change the antenna impedance only a small amount. To fully hide the cable a conductive tape can be wrapped around the short and cable over the full length of the short.

The dimensions associated with the above antenna depend on minimizing coupling between the antenna and the surface of the upper dipole section . If the antenna is close to the bicone fed dipole its maximum diameter is the bicone fed dipole s diameter in order to minimize coupling to the bicone fed dipole and not block radiation from the bicone fed dipole. Since the shorts provide near zero RF at their connection points to the upper dipole sections the separation between the two antennas can be smaller than the case where the bicone fed dipole is open with no shorts. To minimize coupling this distance should be a minimum of roughly 1 20th of the bicone fed dipole s diameter .

Measured impedances and cut in frequencies of the antenna before and after addition of shorts are shown in TABLE 5. Initial antennas used a tapered transmission line balun instead of coaxial feed cable to feed the antenna and used number wire instead of 0.141 inch cable for the shorts. A tapered transmission line balun working down to 300 MHz was used to measure the open version of the antenna since feeding the antenna with a coaxial cable would allow the outside of the cable to become part of the antenna below its cut in frequency of approximately 700 MHz. However even the balun below 300 MHz allowed currents to flow down the outside of its feed cable which inserts a resonance antiresonance loop on into the antenna impedance when the balun and cable becomes of a resonant length. External feed cable currents are less of a problem with the shorted cases of the antenna since there is a close to a short across the antenna aperture below cut in and there is less incentive for currents to flow down a higher impedance feed cable.

Switching from a balun feed to a coaxial cable feed showed expected similar impedances for the shorted antenna with number wire shorts. Switching to the final 0.141 inch diameter shorts showed a little more loss of bandwidth and a slight increase in cut in frequency.

Overall using a VSWR value of 3 1 to define the location of the cut in frequency the cut ins of the prior and present antennas are shown in TABLE 6 and the objective of lowering the cut in frequency with a shorted bicone fed dipole was met.

The antenna being roughly the parallel combination of the open and shorted sections of a bicone fed dipole has three possible resonance components. These are the sections of the antenna about the following paths. The sections not shown occupy roughly 45 degrees of antenna circumference about a path and are similar to e.g. shorted section of the shorted bicone of .

The table below shows possible narrow band resonance lengths and frequencies of the various radial paths along the bicone and dipole sections and and shorts of of the antenna for the cases when the antenna is open and shorted and any resonance antiresonance loops between these frequencies observed in the impedance of the antenna in respective . The original broadband resonances of the open bicone by itself were not measured but are lower in frequency than those of the narrow band cases. Corresponding VSWR s are shown as respective traces and on .

For the open case of the antenna the impedance is that of the bicone fed dipole. Referring to area of the impedance locus of the antenna is the dipole impedance with the effect of the dipole length of the radial bicone section length plus the dipole section length of the antenna adding its comparatively narrow band resonance frequency of 920 MHz to the impedance as a tight resonance antiresonance loop between resonance and a possible narrowband resonance of 1752 MHz of the radial bicone length of the bicone section. The actual resonance of the bicone section is broadband and lower in frequency. A few additional tiny loops seen within the main loop are due to slight asymmetries in the radial lengths of the bicone sections and of the dipole sections about the antenna axis due to the antenna being constructed of soldered copper tape on Mylar sheet. Referring to area of the impedance locus shows mostly the bicone impedance of the antenna when it is above cut in and broadband being of the radial bicone section length .

For the shorted case of the antenna with number wire shorts the short wraps the low frequency part of the impedance locus from an open to a short at 0 Hz as was done with the shorted bicone of U.S. Pat. No. 6 268 834. However the addition of the first half wavelength shorted resonance of 1160 MHz of example path to the impedance spreads out the locus for some loss of bandwidth above the area of the resonance and up to 4000 MHz as opposed to tightening it for more bandwidth. To be more specific the tight part of the impedance locus area due to the open dipole resonance in the bicone impedance of the open case of the antenna with the introduction of shorted resonance of the shorted case of the antenna has been reduced in size to a tight part of the impedance locus between resonance and resonance with a significant part of the broadband bicone impedance locus above resonance s frequency spreading out and untightening for a loss of bandwidth. There is mainly broadbanding due to overlapping of the bands of the resonances of the open and shorted bicone dipole circumferential sections about example paths and and little from the original broadband impedance of the bicone section about example path shown mainly in area and starting roughly around the open wavelength narrowband resonant frequency of the bicone.

The spreading may be explained partially by at least one fact that the added shorted resonance at 1160 MHz is almost on top of one of the existing resonances of the antenna as seen in that being the dipole quarter wavelength resonance of the bicone dipole sections length of 920 MHz. The principle of band overlapping for increased bandwidth and or match requires that the two bands to be combined are adjacent to and separated some from each other and not near or at coincidence with each other. Impedance locus area is already very broadband and needs no other resonances inserted into it and possibly disturbing it. As an example of how a combined resonances impedance can be disturbed the extreme case of coincidence of two ideal parallel combined resonances is shown as trace in . At resonance its impedance is of that of the single resonance of trace resulting in its reflection coefficient magnitude being significantly more than 0. A more significant fact that may explain spreading is that once the open bicone fed dipole is shorted the bicone is no longer fully open but instead is connected to and radiates into a dipole section that is partially shorted. Other factors are present including the fact that the resonances are not entirely independent of each other and the resonances may have been rotated off of the real axis of the Smith Chart.

At frequencies above resonance a few extra small loops and continued locus spreading are seen to be inserted when the antenna is shorted. A small loop exists slightly above the one wavelength shorted resonance . A few resonances between 4000 MHz and 5000 MHz results in a few added loops in impedance locus area . Some of these loops may be due to more impedance sensitivity to asymmetries in the radial path lengths around the antenna axis at higher frequencies of smaller wavelength. Overall the loops are less important for match since the antenna becomes more broadband at higher frequencies.

It may be concluded that the presence of resonances from the shorts actually degrades the bandwidth and match of the antenna because the antenna without shorts is already well matched with large bandwidth. Attempts to improve this with additional resonances are not needed. Removal of the shorts is not possible and thus a method that eliminates their resonances instead would be an improvement. One possibility is to add broadband ferrite core chokes placed about the shorts near their ends to prevent antenna currents from flowing onto the shorts. Some problems with this method are that ferrites have loss and limited bandwidth and the resulting floating shorts become parasites that may degrade patterns.

Measured patterns of the final shorted antenna were similar to the shorted bicone subject to higher gains from better matches at lower frequencies due to the reduced cut in frequency. At higher frequencies nulls start to form about shorts as with the shorted bicone.

An alternative to ridding the degrading impedance effects of the shorts is to compensate for it. Initially the separation and feed point separation of the bicone fed dipole halves of the antenna and and and in the feed region is minimal. The protrusion of the outer conductor of the feed cable above the lower cone can be set at 0 and the extension of the center conductor to the upper cone is minimized to what is practical. However it was found that some fine tuning of the VSWR could be accomplished at the lower frequencies where the antenna is used for good azimuth patterns by adjusting distance to a value greater than 0. Between 1500 and 3000 MHz a maximum decrease of 1 VSWR was seen when an optimal value of the distance between 0 and inch was found. This was at the expense of VSWR loss above 4 GHz where patterns are poor. Impedance wise the addition of the length of the center conductor adds a small series inductive impedance to the antenna. Smaller impedance changes occur from the changing separation of the bicone fed dipole halves which changes the capacitance between the two and thus the antenna s characteristic impedance and the lengthening of the shorts which increases their inductance some. The length of the cable protrusion can also be adjusted to a value greater than 0 to add a small series inductive impedance to the antenna but the impedance is appreciably smaller than that obtained from the center conductor length due to the protrusion s much larger diameter. Thus normally length is set practically to zero for practically no inductance.

The procedure described below is followed to allow fine tuning. The hole not shown at the tip of the upper bicone section located at through which the inner conductor passes is small enough so the center conductor fits snugly. This ensures electrical contact but also allows the upper bicone fed dipole section to slide on it during adjusting the separation between the bicone fed dipole sections during fine tuning. Once the proper separation is found the conductor is bonded to the hole with solder. Alternatively a screw is used to press the conductor firmly in place against the hole sides. The extension length of the center conductor is long enough to ensure there is always a piece of the conductor in the hole as the separation is adjusted. The bottom of the shorts are bonded to the lower dipole section at locations and . However the tops of the shorts at locations and are initially not bonded to their holes in the top dipole section . They are allowed to slide in their holes as the section moves up and down when the separation is adjusted. Once the proper separation is found the shorts are bonded to the section in their holes with solder or weld.

The top of the shorts are initially extended a small distance for example to allow for the up and down movement of the top section. Once the proper separation is found the shorts are cut level with the top of the section.

To ensure electrical contact between the shorts and the top section during adjustment an elastic band is wrapped around the 4 shorts to draw them radially inward so they contact the antenna axis side of the holes of the section where they are located. Contact with this side of the hole ensures the shortest shorting path across the feed point .

The number of shorts in the above antenna example is four. This number could be varied from one to a large number determined by practicality with cut in frequency increasing with the number of shorts. To physically support the antenna pieces of bicone section and dipole section plus bicone section and dipole section at least three shorts are needed. If less are used nonconductive supports would be used in place of the shorts so that at least three supports conductive or nonconductive would be present.

If the antenna is placed in a radome of reasonable thickness and material little change will occur in the antenna s VSWR. By making the diameter of the antenna wide enough so that it fits closely in a cylindrical radome its top and bottom edges and its shorts and can press against the inside circumference of the radome to help prevent the radome from radial collapse when the radome and antenna is placed in a high pressure environment. Increasing the thickness and number of shorts would produce further force against the radome at the expense of increased cut in frequency. The shorts can also be shaped to the inside curvature of the radome to allow a smoother application of their force to the radome.

Some loss of bandwidth occurred when the shorts were added to the bicone fed dipole. Thus the geometry may not be optimal. Other values for the pitch angles of the bicone and dipole sections may be possible along with different ratios of the bicone section radius to the dipole section part of the antenna radius. Only two transitions were used to taper the antenna from a bicone to a dipole. More transitions can be used until eventually a continuously smooth taper exists. Of course all these variables would change if the antenna is to be matched to a Zother than 50 ohms. For a higher Z the pitch angle half feed angle of the bicone section would be higher.

Longer antennas would work at lower frequencies but the extent of how long the antenna can be in terms of length to diameter ratio is unknown. It can be expected that if the antenna is made too long a two band antenna would result.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

